1494249:US	52918997	R3BMHDU66EEMPO	0823030385	242248684	Mat, Mount and Frame It Yourself (Crafts Highlights)	Books	5	146	149	N	N	Absolutely a must-have book for those who frame anything	This is a good book to have if you ever need to frame anything. It is must-have if you need to frame things regularly. It includes absolutely everything you need to know about framing.<br />The book starts out helping you plan ahead by determining whether you need a mat, what size you need if you do and what frame size you should use. A list of standard frame sizes, help on reading a ruler, rules to live by and an explanation of weighted borders are also here. The border finder, which helps you determine how big your borders should be is very helpful. There is also great advice on selecting colors for both the frame and mat as well as great tips on saving time and money. I love the many examples here of what to do, and what not to do, to show off your art in the best light.<br />Then you learn all about materials and equipment. This includes details choosing mat board, foam board, frames and glazing (glass / acrylic) materials. There is also essential information hardware, as well as mounting and mat-cutting materials. I like the author's \\"bottom line\\" page that gives the total cost of setting up a mat cutting / framing workshop.<br />Next you learn how to prepare materials, including how to easily size mat board and glazing. Frame making from scratch follows. This encompasses calculating lumber needs, and using box, flat, J, covered, beaded, and beveled molding. You even learn to make a box for objects. The details of cutting mat windows follow. Single, double, multiple-opening, double multiple-opening, title indent, title window, stepped-corner, eight-sided window, oval / round and V-grove mat making are all here. Everything is explained in detail with step-by-step photos and instructions. There is advice on how to get consistently good results with many insider secrets throughout.<br />The last sections focus on mounting, assembling frames, glazing, handling and hanging artwork. In the mounting chapter you learn not only how to do to safe regular framing but conservation and museum safe framing. You also learn permanent and removable mounting techniques as well as how to mount pastel art (elevation mounting), needlework and three-dimensional objects. Again the instructions for everything are excellent, accompanied by demonstrating photos.<br />There is a great list of resources in the back that includes web site addressees. There is also a handy index. This book makes the perfect housewarming or wedding gift. It's also a great find for artists or anyone who collects art.onservation and museum safe framing. You also learn permanent and removable mounting techniques as well as how to mount pastel art (elevation mounting), needlework and three-dimensional objects. Again the instructions for everything are excellent, accompanied by demonstrating photos. <br />There is a great list of resources in the back that includes web site addressees. There is also a handy index. This book makes the perfect housewarming or wedding gift. It's also a great find for artists or anyone who collects art.	2002-06-28
1494578:US	52918997	R1MZUKMX7F7F16	0823010414	128951626	Creative Curtainmaking Made Easy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Great book for making curtains	Curtains are more complex than one would think and this book does a great job of getting you through the basics and into advanced designs. It book starts out helping you choose fabric, curtain fittings and poles. Preparation for sewing both curtains and shades, planning, measuring and caring for your curtains is also covered. A section on estimating amounts of fabric and accessories needed was a big help.<br />In the first set of examples you learn to make tiebacks, folded, and roman shades. Sheers and lightweights are next. I love the one decorating with flowers. Projects include a kitchen gingham with bindings, a hook back curtain and a pin-tucked lined curtain.<br />Lined and interlined curtains as well as flat and gathered valances follow. You are shown how to make hand-pleated, gathered, hand-gathered, rolled edge and bunched headings. Hook bands, frills and Italian stringing are also covered. Projects include an appliqued curtain with tabs and patchwork curtains.  There is great advice on adding contrasting linings or quilted borders and mixing and matching fabrics too.<br /> The project instructions throughout are excellent. The entire process is explained step-by-step with demonstrating photos. A large photo of the finished project accompanies these and a great variety of styles and fabrics are used.<br />The last chapter focuses on basic sewing skills. This is a great reference and very helpful for beginners to sewing like myself. Here you are shown how to make seams and mitered corners. Several stitches, borders and piping are also illustrated. There is even a discussion of bought trimmings, a glossary and a list of suppliers. This is a great book for anyone who wishes add that special touch or save money by making their own curtains.	2002-06-28
1561906:US	52918997	R1JC5BUH64FYGO	082303058X	457498338	Microwaved Pressed Flowers: New Techniques for Brilliant Pressed Flowers	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Easy, Mistake proof way of pressing flowers, great projects	This is a great book for anyone wanting to learn the easy, quick, more mistake proof way of pressing flowers. It's useful tips and wide variety of gorgeous projects make it suitable for crafters of all levels and tastes.<br />The book starts by helping you choose the right flowers for pressing, including a large chart that lists flower name, color and special notes such as whether it is difficult to press or has a variety of interesting shapes. It also gives some basic information on traditional pressing including instructions on making a press.<br />Details on microwave pressing are next including making a simple microwave press and step-by-step instructions accompanied by small photos of the drying process. Advice on storage, record keeping improving your results and avoiding common problems is also here. There are even extra preparation tips for dealing with difficult pollen, rosebuds and stems.<br />Over 20 projects follow including simple cards and stationery and covered items such as boxes and furniture, as well as designs under glass. All projects include a supply list and written step-by-step instructions. The instructions are good with a large full-color picture of the project is shown, but the specific flowers used are not listed. This gives you the flexibility to use your favorites that are available to you. My favorite project, called secret garden, features a vast array of flowers in a frame. I also loved another with flowers pressed in front of a window scene. I enjoyed a rocker decorated with morning glories, pretty scented drawer liners and a collaged musical hat box as well.<br />A helpful section in the back includes a chart for record keeping and beautiful flower images as well as a good index. I have tried a few pressed flower projects in the past but this book has inspired me to make that the focus of my crafting efforts this summer.	2002-04-29
1561944:US	52918997	R3M42I96LDGSIB	0823021823	471356177	Handpainting Porcelain	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Wonderful motifs, great varitey, Great instructions - BUY IT	I can't say enough good things about this delightful book. I love it. It is brimming with a wide variety of beautiful designs. From delicate roses to Christmas holly and alpine motifs to charming little mirrors, this book has something for everyone.<br />The book is made up mostly of projects. The instructions are excellent, including step-by-step directions accompanied by large clear illustrations. Full-size templates for design transfer are included for all the designs in the book. There is also a small section in the back that gives details on color, materials and techniques.<br />I especially liked the Arabian nights theme with wonderful images of people and architecture to be painted on plates, candlesticks and tea cups. Fanciful gourds with insects painted inside hors d'oeuvres dishes are another favorite. I also loved projects featuring an array of feathers and a large selection of seashells.<br />Before I bought this book I didn't realize it used paints that required a special porcelain firing oven. I have only used the newer ones that work in a regular oven. However, I am certainly not sorry I bought it. The wonderful motifs can easily be painted on anything using the appropriate medium in similar colors. I know these lovely designs will make it into the many other crafts I do.	2002-04-29
1561951:US	52918997	R2ET0Z0QJL06G9	1564968189	579080292	The Art of Outdoor Lighting: Landscapes with the Beauty of Lighting	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great gallery of artistic lighting &amp; designer sourcebook	This book is filled with examples from around the world of magnificent homes that are enhanced by stunning outdoor lighting effects. It is as much a gallery of artistic lighting as it is a sourcebook for the designer or homeowner looking for ways to make their home stand out.<br />The book is broken into sections with a brief overview of each before the many photographic examples. These include transforming a home after dark with dramatic lighting effects, creating a moon lighting effect and my favorite section on lighting pools and fountains with some really fabulous designs. There are also sections on outdoor rooms, landscape lighting and some wonderful ideas on using the view in through a window as part of the exterior design and lighting plan.<br />Full color, full-page photos fill most of the book. Brief descriptions are provided in captions along with designer and photographer credits. There is contact information for these designers and photographers along with some lighting manufacturers in the back of the book. This is a design book, not a technical manual. Each caption tells the type of fixtures used but there is no information on wiring or installation.<br />A very useful chapter on common lighting mistakes along with frequently asked questions and a glossary conclude the book. Although most of the examples in this book are of homes well beyond average means, many of the ideas and principles presented can be adapted to enhance almost any dwelling. I found it quite inspirational and enjoyable.	2002-04-29
1561972:US	52918997	R24E2DZCVIX8OU	0823050300	434179946	Complete Surfaces and Finishes Directory: Paint, Plaster, Wallpaper, Tile, Wood, Metal, Glass	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great idea book for home decorating, nice projects	This is a wonderful idea book for home decorating. It is a guide to a variety of surfaces and finishes including paint, plaster, concrete, wallpaper, tile, wood, glass and metal.<br />The book is divided into sections on various materials and finish types such as types of wood, paint types, paint effects, and glass styles. Each section includes background information and sample pictures. I have lots of interior design reference books and I found more examples I liked in here than in many of the larger books. A chart listing all the finishes in the chapter and their applications concludes each section.<br />Each section includes one or two full projects as well as many other ideas. The projects are rated by difficulty, but they are very brief and do not include step-by-step demonstrations. Some projects include colorwashing a wall, tinting and polishing plaster, using fabric as a wall cover, making a tile border, creating tongue and groove paneling and building a copper paneled cupboard.<br />In the back there is a nice section on putting it all together. Here you find advice on everything from using texture to choosing upholstery. It also helps you choose your own style and decorate every room in your house. There is also a good list of suppliers. This is a great book for anyone who enjoys creatively decorating their home.	2002-04-29
1562118:US	52918997	RRV703CQO9F7V	156496809X	291026313	The New Home Color Book: Decorate with Color Like a Professional Designer (Best of Brochure Design)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great decor book	I love the d&eacute;cor in this the book. The rooms shown here tend to have clean and modern lines yet they are richly and elegantly decorated, rather than flowery, rustic or cluttered.<br />The book is arranged by color and includes a chapter for each of the primary and secondary colors as well as chapters on pastel and neutral color schemes. Each section first gives background information on the color including its characteristics. It then shows 5-6 example rooms with swatches of the colors used. There are designers' comments on the colors as well which I really enjoyed reading.<br />It was really nice to see rooms that use purple as their primary color. I personally love purple and it is such rarity to see it used well, without being overpowering. Though not a big fan of orange in past, seeing some of the rooms using it here has inspired me to take a second look at using it in my home. I found the chapter on setting mood with color to be very helpful.<br />It's great that a directory of designers and photographers is included as well. If you love color and want to see it expertly used this is the book for you.	2002-04-29
1562309:US	52918997	R362AMKALMT036	0823031365	955426085	Mood Indigo: Decorating with Rich, Dark Colors	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Exquisite interiors, beatufiul high-quatily coffee table boo	This is a beautiful interior design coffee table book. It is packed with large photos of exquisite interiors that use strong colors including blues, greens, reds, purples, browns, grays and blacks. The wonderful photos are printed on high-quality glossy paper making them appear even more vivid.<br />In additional to the gorgeous pictures there is also advice on color, texture and light. Color scheme basics are covered with a discussion of tone, shade, balance and the moods each color creates. There are also suggestions for sources of inspiration for each color in nature, history and various cultures.<br />The interiors shown are simply fantastic and filled with rich, dark colors. There are no large rooms of empty white here. I loved a relaxing bathroom with shades of plum and a cabinet decorated with multiple hues of green, blue and yellow. I also enjoyed a Japanese style bedroom with red walls, a wood chest and a huge hanging white kimono. A dark blue living room with nude outlines on the wall and an artistic cozy brown couch is another of my favorites.<br />I really appreciated a great list of suppliers and helpful index included in the back. This is a great book of useful ideas as well as being a wonderful display piece or gift.	2002-04-29
1562416:US	52918997	R2PB006ALKWXDM	0823031284	802945557	Monotype: Mediums and Methods for Painterly Printmaking	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Great demonstation of incredible effects using monotype	There seems to be very limited information available on the technique of monotype. This book fills that void by demonstrating the incredible variety of effects possible using the monotype method. There are no projects, per se, rather it teaches techniques that help you create your own masterpieces. Many pieces of example artwork are found throughout the book.<br />A monotype is a one-of-a-kind print made by transferring a painted image to paper. The book starts out with an introduction to materials including plates, mediums, solvents, panting tools and paper as well as hand and press transfer equipment. It also covers studio safety and finding workshop facilities.<br />Techniques are next including working into a light or dark field and both hand and press transfer.<br />These include step-by-step instructions accompanied by demonstration photos. Working in specific mediums including watercolor, acrylics, water-soluble writing instruments, monoprint paints (Createx), oil paints, water-based oils and alkyds follows. A section discussing special oil-based printing inks for lithography, etching, printing and serigraphy is also here. There is even a chapter on special techniques including using masks &amp; stencils, embossing and creating collages.<br />The final chapter gives an overview of monoprints, which combine monotype with other print making processes, and mixed-media monotypes. This includes intaglio, drypoint and engraving, as well as linocut and collagraphic monoprints.<br />There is a nice list of suppliers as well as interesting biographical notes on the artists featured in the back. This is a great book that displays the great diversity in mediums and results available with monotype.	2002-04-29
1562480:US	52918997	RL1QIGK0OKE2W	0823002837	588218763	The Art of Encaustic Painting: Contemporary Expression in the Ancient Medium of Pigmented Wax	Books	5	134	135	N	N	Detailed information,  great gallery	I have long been fascinated by the technique of encaustic painting and this book fills a void in references on the subject. It contains a vast array of detailed information on everything from making your own paints to exhibiting your artwork.<br />The book starts out with a history of encaustic art. A gallery section then showcases four different portfolios of art including representation, color and pattern, dimension and modular work. Captions include artist, title, materials used, size and date introduced. Artwork is displayed in a variety of sizes. Some of my favorites are a beautiful face by Tony Scherman and the organic looking &quot;Miasma Morph&quot; by Sylvia Netzer, made of wax with pigment fired on ceramic.<br />The next sections focuses on encaustic materials. It starts out with details on the wax types. A reference chart of all the wax types, their source, composition, properties, melting point, flash point, color range and average price is here too. Information on heating equipment and well as melting and fusing the wax are next. Then pigments and making your own paints is covered. Selecting and caring for brushes is also here. There is even a great section on using materials safely.<br />Painting preparation and techniques follow. These include information on substrates and grounds with step-by-step instructions on how to make your own. Recipes of rabbit-skin glue and gesso, as well as tips on using them are explained as well. Then techniques and tips for textured, smooth, scraped and incised surfaces accompanied by example artwork are given. There are also details on collage, mixed media, creating artwork on paper and making large-scale pieces. I loved the helpful answers common questions such as what are good beeswax mixes, what wax is best for glazing, how does one get rid of bloom and what do if you get a wax burn?<br />In the back of the book there are very helpful resource sections including supply sources, galleries, a glossary and bibliography as well as photo credits and an index. This book is an indispensable reference for anyone wanting to learn about and create encaustic art.hy as well as photo credits and an index. This book is an indispensable reference for anyone wanting to learn about and create encaustic art.	2002-04-29
1562540:US	52918997	R30UUIH1FGRKHI	0823000621	738409134	The Acrylics Book: Materials and Techniques for Today's Artist	Books	5	146	147	N	N	Great examples, in depth backgroud info, terrific demos	This is an excellent guide to acrylic painting. It offers in depth background information as well as numerous step-by-step technique demonstrations. There are also many great example paintings throughout the book.<br />The book starts out with an overview of nine different paint brands including their characteristics, strengths and weaknesses. It then covers mediums, varnishes, modeling paste and gesso as well as supports, grounds, brushes, knives and other tools. Other background information such as selecting a color pallet, protecting finished works and caring for tools is here as well. There are even demonstrations on stretching and priming a canvas as well as preparing panels.<br />Basic concepts such as mixing paint, blending with both soft and hard edges, layering, scraping and spraying are covered next. Demonstrations include mixing paints on the pallet and creating a hard edge with masking tape. Color characteristics and relationships are also discussed.<br />Acrylic painting techniques follow, starting with a discussion of how to plan a painting and draw a preliminary sketch. You will find out how to use acrylics to mimic other styles of painting such as watercolor, opaque watercolor, oil painting and egg tempera. There is further instruction on how to combine techniques, paint on a wet canvas, create a collage, work with a gel medium and make a relief painting. Using acrylics with other media and in craft applications is also explored. Brief demonstrations show how they can be used with pencil and wash, colored pencil, lithography crayon, pastels and oil pastels.<br /><br />There is a good list of suppliers and a detailed index. I recommend this book for acrylic painter of all levels because of its excellent coverage of both materials and a wide range of techniques.	2002-04-29
1562542:US	52918997	R3MUNP4TKRGJF7	0823002659	897323271	The Big Book of Decorative Painting: How to Paint If You Don'T Know How and How to Improve If You Do	Books	5	70	71	N	N	One of the best books on decorative painting, great for beg	This is one of the best books I have seen on how to paint for the inexperienced but eager artist. It features an endless variety of terrific projects to suit anyone's taste. The wonderfully explicit, easy to follow and well illustrated directions make creating the projects a breeze with designs for all levels.<br />The book starts with a list of both basic and &quot;wish list&quot; supplies. It then helps you choose the right brushes and gives some great tips on caring for them. Then there is advice on choosing paint, keeping it fresh and how to tell when it is dry. There is a large section on mixing color and color schemes as well.<br />The essentials of brush loading, basic brushstrokes and blending are next. The author guides you through each step with detailed illustrations including the best section on creating basic brushstrokes I have ever seen. I found the learning from your mistakes section invaluable in helping me refine my technique. Practical advice and great tips here abound here. Surface preparation is also discussed here giving details on preparing wood, tinware, paper and glass.<br />A wide variety of projects follow including brushstroke designs, leaves, ribbons, water drops, fruit, vegetables, flowers, lettering, faux finishes and Trompe l'oeil. There are even techniques for working with patterns and information on giving your projects great finishing touches. The instructions are excellent; they are both written and illustrated step-by-step. There is also a large full-color picture of each finished project. In many cases there are also several versions of a project, such as beginner, intermediate and advanced versions of making an apple. I also love that the projects show swatches of each color used and that brand names are not listed for the colors. This makes choosing matching color easier and it saves money because you don't have to buy a certain brand of paint to do the project. Some of my favorite projects include a daisy tray, forget-me-not candle holder, pear saltbox and mushroom sign.<br />There are helpful template patterns for all the projects as well as a list of suppliers. Whether you're starting out or have experience with decorative painting this is the book for you.t candle holder, pear saltbox and mushroom sign. <br />There are helpful template patterns for all the projects as well as a list of suppliers. Whether you're starting out or have experience with decorative painting this is the book for you.	2002-04-29
1562555:US	52918997	R2GMSIR4XH2J28	0823046583	846433526	The New Scratchboard	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful book for experienced painters to expand horizions	This is a wonderful book for experienced painters with that want to expand their horizons or for anyone who wants background information on clay-surface techniques. It shows how a wide range of painting and drawing techniques can be used in conjunction with scratchboard techniques to create a stunning array of results on these very versatile surfaces.<br />The book starts out with background information on clay-coated surfaces including history, and the types of surfaces and their characteristics. It then covers application and scratching tools. A basic vocabulary and an overview of various mediums that can be used on them are also here.<br />Several sections highlighting different surfaces and mediums follow. These include ink-coated clay surface, India ink on white clay, color medium on white clay and printmaking with the clay surface. Each section includes at least one demonstration of a work in progress from start to finish. The printmaking chapter is the largest and includes eight demos. These demonstrations are meant to showcase a general technique rather than create an identical copy of the work.<br />My favorite part of the book is the beautiful artwork throughout. I may even buy a second copy to cut out and frame some of this vast array of gorgeous art. Captions for each piece include artist, title, size and a basic description of techniques used. My favorite is &quot;Madame Butterfly&quot;, a whimsical piece that combines acrylic airbrush with scratching techniques. I also loved the many black and white wildlife images.<br />There is a great material resource directory and a helpful index in the back. I admit I have not really tried any of the techniques shown here. I think they are a bit above me as a beginning artist. I would definitely buy the book again though just for the example images and the inspiration they provide to encourage me to develop my own skills.	2002-04-29
1827474:US	52918997	RASLSDH7QSR2X	1564967204	329160836	Color Harmony Pastels: A Guidebook for Creating Great Color Combinations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great color theory for those how like pastels	This is one of the best books on color theory I have found. I like pastel colors best and I am glad to have found a book specifically focused on them. The color themes really help you set the right mood and with such a variety of color combinations for each one anyone can find something to suit their taste. It has been an invaluable reference tool in helping me decorate my home.<br />The book starts out with a brief explanation of the color wheel and a color chart. It is then divided into several color themes. These include blush, ripe, ambrosial, sweet, appealing, fresh, calm, refreshing, charming, old-fashioned, ethereal, vivacious, iridescent and subtle. Each theme focuses on a color or group of colors such as yellow-green for fresh, violet for ethereal and blue-violet for old-fashioned. Monochromatic, analogous, complementary, clash, split-complementary, and neutral color schemes are shown in color swatches for each theme. A process color conversion chart is included in the back.<br />This book is set up like the Color Harmony Workbook, but has a few less color schemes for each color theme, although there are many color themes here that are not contained in Home Color Workbook. This is a great addition to those volumes or a less expensive substitute for those who just like pastels color schemes. In the back there is a process color conversion chart and 152 cut-out color swatches with CMYK information on the backs.	2001-09-26
1827581:US	52918997	R2K84OTHT215FM	156496339X	344636156	The Home Color Book	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Nice varitey of color schemes and styles	This is a great book that shows you a wide variety of color schemes and how they are used in various decorating styles. There are large color photos of sample rooms with comments from over 80 professional designers.<br />The book starts out with rooms that use red, blue, yellow, green, violet or orange as their primary color. Pastel color schemes follow. Here I love the southwest style living room. Rooms using analogous, complementary and neutral color scheme are next. An elaborate tent style canopy bed was my favorite here. Then you are shown how to create mood with color. A variety of rooms are shown that convey different feelings such as nurturing, intellectuality, playfulness, healing and romance.<br />Many of the rooms shown feature two or three color triangle swatches that highlight the basic colors that were used in its design. Also, in the back, there is a section on altering color to create families of colors that will work together. There are swatches for each of the primary and secondary colors and each one is shown with white, black and its complementary color gradually added. A list of designers with contact information is included as well.<br />The practical advice on color combinations and using color to create mood were very useful for me. Plus, I got lots of decorating tips and ideas just by flipping through the pages of room designs. This book is definitely worthwhile for anyone who takes pride in decorating their home.	2001-09-26
1827777:US	52918997	R2LRNQII2JUHFJ	1564967751	710828146	Home Office Life: Making a Space to Work at Home	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great helpful ideas, hints &amp; tips	This is a fantastic book that will help anyone create the perfect home office. It is packed with great ideas, hints and tips as well as lots of example photos. The two major issues of the home worker, limited space and integrating work functions with living space, are always kept in mind.<br />The book starts by helping you identify your needs and determine what type of worker you are. By using this information you can establish a home office plan. It also helps you choose the right location, exploring the pros and cons of different rooms.<br />Office design is next. Here the book guides you through choosing materials including flooring, wall-coverings and window treatments. It shows you a variety of floor plans and assists you in planning a your workspace arrangement.  Selecting the appropriate lighting and purchasing furniture follows. There is a useful ergonomic tip sheet and a chair buying guide. Creative storage solutions, filing secrets and the basic home office supplies you will need are also covered. There are even small sections on d&eacute;cor and creating a client-friendly office.<br />The final chapter shows you real world offices including guest room and laundry room  makeovers. Other offices, including those of an interior designer, a web designer, a researcher, a writer and literary agent are shown as well. Other examples feature a wide range of styles. I loved a funky black &amp; white office with an &quot;S&quot; shaped bookcase and offbeat variety of wallpaper. I found an office under a metal bunk bed interesting as well. Whether you have a whole room or just a tiny corner to work in this book will help you.	2001-09-26
1827904:US	52918997	RWPJONJ2ZGHGI	1564967026	918584145	Decorating With Color and Texture	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great decorating tips	Bold and exciting looks predominate in this book, which presents tons of great decorating tips. The styles are mainly contemporary, eclectic, classical and traditional. There are not many country, frilly or floral rooms.<br />The book starts showing you dramatic rooms. I loved a bedroom with purple walls, a huge white ball lantern light and a simple bed. I liked a soft yet high-tech looking living room done in several shades of blue and accents of orange as well. Many more examples show how to use contrasting colors that work well together to create dramatic yet harmonious effects.<br />The role of texture in enhancing color and style is then examined. Using fabric, furniture and decorative objects, rooms are completed in several themes including Eastern and modern. In the section on the Eclectic look you see how color and texture are used to pull together diverse items and styles to suit personal taste. Here I found an elegant sitting room with a green velvet couch and animal prints to be quite impressive. I also liked a cozy bedroom with a purple wall and a wrought iron bed.<br />There is an emphasis throughout the book on decorating to satisfy personal taste, style and comfort. Guidance is provided on color schemes to fit different functions and create desired moods. There is a wonderful chapter on bringing the elements of nature into your<br />home. The use of natural finishes in woods and fabrics as well as plants and other natural<br />objects as decorative accents is employed here.<br />An excellent resource guide is provided. This includes a glossary, a supplier list with web site addresses and directories of designers and photographers. Among many decorating books I have, the emphasis on practicality and livability along with style and creativity make this one of the most useful for me.	2001-09-26
1828159:US	52918997	R3G6KC9KIPE3YB	156496616X	926529534	The Right Light: Lighting Essentials for the Home	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Packed with tips, tricks and tips, great craft projects	This is a wonderful book for any individual who is decorating their home or any design professional who wants to know about as many lighting options as possible. It is packed with tips, tricks and ideas to make successfully lighting your home easy.<br />The book starts out by explaining natural light and then helps you develop a lighting plan. There are lots of decorative tips and tricks such as using uplights to made a ceiling look higher or washing opposite walls with light to make a room look bigger. It even discusses how lighting effects mood.<br />Lighting specific to certain areas of the home is covered next with sections on special lighting considerations for living rooms, bedrooms, kitchens, baths, entrances, staircases, your home office and outdoor areas. Everything from built in fixtures to accent lamps to candles is covered as a total lighting plan is conceived.<br />The strength of this book is its coverage of both the aesthetic and the technical. Special mini sections explain types of light, minimum lighting levels, and tell all about lamps and shades. They also help you choose light bulbs, lighting fixtures, and window coverings. The final chapter addresses special lighting needs such as increasing light at night, or using light create the right mood. A quick fixes guide shows you how to correct many lighting problems with a minimum of effort and expense.<br />Along with decorating advice there are several craft projects throughout the book. These include a leaf and paper hurricane lamp, punched paper light string, Japanese table lantern, papyrus shade lamp, marbled hanging lantern, henna pattern lamp, pearled shell night light and sliver tea light votive. The projects are sophisticated looking, yet easy enough for anyone to make. They include step-by-step instructions and a picture of the finished project.	2001-09-26
1828394:US	52918997	R3VQC3HVW134ZE	1564964647	377588664	Comfort Colors: Palettes for Liveable Rooms	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great guide to color	This is a wonderful book that shows you how to use color to create comfortable living spaces. It is packed with great color pictures with brief captions plus a more detailed text for each chapter and sprinkled with insightful comments from experienced designers.<br />The book starts out discussing color and how it affects our well-being. It also explains color theory and then shows rooms including triad, complementary, monochromatic and analogous color schemes. An entire chapter is then devoted to neutrals. I liked one room with a wood floor and black furniture that was accented with a variety of brightly colored bowls and vases.<br />Each of the primary and secondary colors is explored in it's own chapter. Here we have rooms in which the design centers around one major color and can see varied moods and styles that can be created with that color. My favorite was a little girl's bedroom with violet walls and a fantasy castle mural. I also like one with yellow chairs and Asian character throw pillows.<br />The book wraps up by showing you what colors designers use most for living rooms, dining rooms, family rooms, kitchens, bedrooms and bathrooms. This can be very important if you want to redecorate your home, but may need to resell it and some point. In the back there is a bibliography and an index of both designers and photographers with contact information.	2001-09-26
1828432:US	52918997	R3O7F34CXY591Z	1564967018	981824627	Decorating With Fabric and Pattern	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lots of great tips	Have you ever struggled with combing fabrics or patterned wallpaper in your home? If you have, then this is the book for you. Learn to use classic stripes to create an elegant look or a bright simple floral print to create a lively retreat.<br />The book starts out focusing on contemporary and classic fabric patterns. I love the decorating tips scattered through the book like using tiny prints and in a small room and larger ones in a big room or garden. It then discusses combining patterns. Again there are lots of great tips here like using several floral prints to create a rich looking collage or using patterns that include the same colors.<br />The next section on quick-change fabrics is great. It shows you how easy it to change a room by adding, subtracting or changing the fabrics in it. You can transform from season to season just by changing the curtains, slipcover, bedding or pillow shams. This is great when you want something different, but don't want to spend a fortune.<br />A chapter on creating pattern with your collections follows. Here you learn how to use pictures, knick-knacks and art to personalize and add the final dimension to your home. I love the many display ideas here. The book wraps up with a glossary, resource directory that includes websites and information on contacting the designers. This is a great book of tips and ideas with something here for every style.	2001-09-26
1828496:US	52918997	R3AXL9K3X7EISR	082301102X	173372620	Creative Photocopying: Using the Photocopier for Crafts, Design and Interior Decoration	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Lots of different projects, some great ideas	With this book you will turn the mundane office copier into an instrument of exciting art for your home. It features a variety of projects to suit anyone's taste, including stationery, interiors, fabric, furniture and decorative objects. Though many of them look very sophisticated and time consuming, they are very quick and easy to create.<br />The book starts out with the basics of photocopying such as making enlarging and reducing, reversing as image, adapting an image to fit a standard format and paper selection. Copyright issues are also discussed. Both black &amp; white and color copies are used in the book and these are available at very reasonable prices from most print shops if you do not have direct access to the right kind of copier.<br />The projects follow. Most are very simple to make and use easy to find supplies. The instructions are excellent and include step-by-step instructions accompanied by illustrations. A large full-color picture of the finished project is also shown. Some of my favorites include fish wall adornments, a classical fireplace, a timepiece valance, patchwork kitchen curtains, a canceled postage stamp T-shirt and magnets. I love the idea of photocopying your child's artwork and putting on a cupboard.<br />As a bonus, the book includes several pages of black &amp; white images to use in your artwork including many of the elements used in the projects. This makes a nice house-warming gift and some projects are great for kids too.	2001-09-26
1849173:US	52918997	R230DF01XIH3UB	1564964833	324332901	Sophisticated Surfaces: Ideas and Inspirations from Eighteen Professional Surface Painters	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful interior design &quot;coffee table&quot; book	This is a great idea book for anyone interested in home d&eacute;cor or interior design. It also makes a great &quot;coffee table&quot; art book for anyone who appreciates fine decorative painting. It features a variety of surfaces created by eighteen different artists.<br />The book is divided into three sections: faux and fantasy, painted surfaces, and murals and Trompe l'oeil. Each artist has a gallery showing numerous photos of their work as well as a brief biography and description of their techniques. Captions contain information on how each individual example was created.<br />I loved a whimsical little girl's room painted from floor to ceiling with pastels by John Parsons. All the furniture by Fischer is just awesome. My favorite was an iridescent pastel chair with a woman's face on it. I enjoyed the bathroom where Entner achieves an awesome texture by using visible brushstrokes and a goldfish pond floorcloth by Dale Wade. I was also very impressed with the Drywall columns painted to look like Italian marble and a garden like octagonal room with lattice work up the walls.<br />Although most of us may not be able to emulate the artistic skill displayed in this book, it is still a great source of ideas and inspiration for anyone interested in incorporating decorative painting into their d&eacute;cor. There is contact information included for all of the artists and photographers represented. I know I will use ideas from this in my own home.	2001-09-05
1849319:US	52918997	R3UOIEA43BA0AB	0823053261	968570411	Textile Design: The Complete Guide to Printed Textiles for Apparel and Home Furnishings	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Shows you how to create unique textile patterns	This is a great book that shows you how to create unique textile patterns. It geared for those who have an interest in fabric design, and takes the process from original artwork creation through printing for mass production.<br />The book starts with a brief history and information on the business of textile design. Next it covers tools and supplies as well as where to find reference materials. Over twenty design styles are then explored including floral, patchwork, damask, conversational, chintz, landscape, geometric, ethnic and art deco to name a few.<br />Methods of design and layout follow. There are no projects, but rather step-by-step guidelines to creating any pattern, including types such as all-over, free-flowing, border, landscape and stripe. Working with color is also discussed. This includes using a color chart, mixing and matching colors, making colored grounds and painting a blotch. Then in preparation for printing you are shown how to put almost any type of design in repeat.<br />The basics of several design techniques are covered as well. Some include batik, bleaching, flower shading, spattering, India ink woodblock, and photocopy techniques.<br />The book wraps up with a discussion of the role of computers in textile design and an explanation of the printing process. This is a nice cross between an art book and a textbook with great color photo examples throughout and sound technical instruction.	2001-09-05
1849451:US	52918997	R2HGAU3ZBRYPBC	0823013669	715119717	Drawing Animals: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Learn to draw many animals	This is a great book that shows you how to draw many animals including elephants, bears, horses, cattle, deer, sheep, primates, cats, dogs, squirrels and rabbits.<br />For each animal there is a complete sketch of the front, side and three-quarter view as well as close-up front and side head views. Next, sketches using basic shapes show the animals from several angles. Then, skeleton, musculature and surface anatomy are shown and discussed. A brief three-step demonstration of how to draw the animal follows.<br />Complete drawings of the animals doing various activities such as drinking, touching, sitting, and resting are also shown along with sketches of the animals' young. Sometimes different species of animals are shown such as polar and black bears. Animals sharing a similar shape such as zebra, buffalo, hippopotamus and burro are shown sometimes as well. Drawings include brief commentary.<br />Though I do like this book and did find it helpful, especially the anatomy/muscle  diagrams, I wish the written instructions were a little more detailed. Overall, I would recommend it to any beginning to intermediate artist who wishes to improve their animal drawing technique.	2001-09-05
1849477:US	52918997	R3KCQ4483G55A9	0823005941	398349872	Decorating Techniques (Ceramics Class)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Excellent instuctions, wide variety of techniques	Continuing the excellent Ceramics Class series, this is a fantastic book for those wanting to decorate ceramics. There are excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by lots of demonstrating pictures, plus any formulas you need.<br />Decorations can be applied at various points in the creation process. The book starts out with decorations for soft damp pieces. I love the sculptures and jewelry using an Egyptian paste. Other pieces shown use texture application, paddling, inscribing and an agate look. Next, leather-hard pieces are decorated using fluting, faceting, carving, cloisonn&eacute;, englobe painting, paper resist, combing, marbling, burnishing and encrusting. The openwork bowl, relief jug and mishima tray in this section are simply gorgeous.<br />Decorating dry pieces is then covered. This includes using oxides, sgraffito and using resists. Bisque-fired pieces are next. Here, underglazing, using resists, overglazing and superimposing glazes are shown. An Indian design using the cuerda seca technique, in which different glazes are used to prevent them for mixing, was my favorite.<br />There is a helpful glossary of terms in the back. With so many wonderful techniques and a wide variety of projects, there is something for everyone here.	2001-09-05
1850079:US	52918997	RFDXBAF8G65KJ	0823005089	764392795	The Big Book of Ceramics: A Guide to the History, Materials, Equipment and Techniques of Hand-Building, Throwing, Molding, Kiln-Firing and Glazing Pottery and Other Ceramic Objects	Books	5	89	91	N	N	Most complete ceramics book, must-have reference	This is the most complete all-in-one ceramics book I have seen. It is a must-have reference book for anyone involved in the craft as it is packed with information on all aspects of ceramic work with full-color photos and detailed step-by-step demonstrations.<br />The book starts out with a great history of ceramics throughout the world. Then materials and equipment are also covered including types of clay, clay mixtures and modeling tools. Hand-building techniques follow including pinch pots, coiling, hollowing out, slab-building and using clay strips. Using these techniques, you learn to make a box with a lid, a cylindrical pot, a cube-shaped box, a bowl and a vase.<br />Details on kilns and firing are next. This includes lots of helpful illustrations as well as advice on packing the kiln and measuring the temperature. Information is included on bonfire, pit, sawdust, wood, coal, oil, gas, electric and salt-glaze firing. Then glazing is covered including an overview of basic coloring oxides, other materials used in glazes, the Seger formula for glaze calculation, glaze preparation, and types of glazes. Several glazing methods are demonstrated including dipping, pouring, and using a brush or spray-gun.<br />A molding section follows with information on mold preparation, the drying process and creating waste and press molds. Projects include a hollow cast vase and a press mold plate. A great chapter on throwing is next. This includes basic techniques for making bowls, plates, cylinders, vases, and lids.<br />The final section offers complete step-by-step instructions for over 12 different projects. Some include a thrown teapot, an open vase with coils, an abstract sculpture with clay strips, a pinched bottle and a solid organic looking sculpture.<br />A helpful glossary and index are also included. Whether you are just starting out or have been creating ceramics for a while you will find much to enjoy and learn in this book.	2001-09-05
1908860:US	52918997	R10X2QNMAOBENY	1564964353	764528603	Color Harmony Workbook: A Workbook and Guide to Creative Color Combinations	Books	5	81	82	N	N	Best book on color, must-have for designers	This is the best book on color I have found. It is a must have for anyone who has ever been confused about matching colors and creating the right mood. Though I was already fairly confident working with color, this book helped me a great deal by letting me see a wide variety of color combinations together. It has been an invaluable reference tool in helping me decorate my home.<br />The book begins by discussing the color wheel. This includes the facets of color such as hot, cold, light, dark, pale, bright, warm and cool as well as a great explanation of all the different color schemes. It is divided into over 20 different themes including romantic, friendly, earthy, fresh, calm, traditional, professional, magical, classic, tropical and energetic. For each of these themes a set of color schemes including monochromatic, primary, complementary, split-complementary, analogous, spilt, clash and neutral is shown. Tear out swatches, clearly labeled with theme and color scheme on the back, duplicate what is shown in the book. A brief tips section for using the themes in graphic design, interiors and fine art is also given.<br />In the back of the book is a process color conversion chart that gives the CMYK values for each of the 106 colors used. Swatches are included for this as well. This is very useful for graphic designers.<br />This book and Color Harmony 2 are pretty much identical in content. However, this one is bigger and contains swatches, while the other contains a great CD with a pallet picker. The one with the CD may be more helpful to web designers and such, but this version is probably better for interior designers and artists using traditional media. If I had to select only one color book, this one or Color Harmony 2 would be my first choice.	2001-07-22
1909350:US	52918997	R1ITJDH8XU4XQ7	1564967174	536238208	Bathing Spaces: Designs for Pampering Body and Soul	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wide range of styles, create a bathing sanctuary	This is my favorite book in the Rockport spaces series. It is packed with ideas and tips and shows a wide range of styles including everything you need to help turn your bathing space into a luxurious and relaxing sanctuary.<br />The book offers great information on choosing a bathtub and shower, using the basic principles of Feng Shui and solutions for working in a small space. Safety, lightning, windows, cleaning advice and proper heating are also covered. It gives you design secrets and offers many interesting ideas like putting a sofa in you bath as well.<br />I love the sections on creating a home health spa and exotic soaks. The idea of adding salts to you bath to make your own floating tank was fantastic.<br />The pictures are large and informatively captioned. A few baths are included for their historical design significance and are not really practical for most homes. Also, I can't say that I would want an exact copy of any of these. However, I love many of their elements, materials and layouts and am sure I will be incorporating many of them into my home. This is a wonderful book that is sure to help to anyone trying to create their own slice of bathing heaven.	2001-07-22
1909405:US	52918997	RKLEYQI5O9ANQ	1564966941	190426438	Room Recipes: Ingredients for Great Looking Rooms	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great varitey, includes resource information	This is a wonderful and very unique book that shows a tremendous variety of room styles and then discusses the elements that make them up. From cluttered comfort to sleekly modern, the emphasis is on the purely decorative aspects of the rooms. Beneath the surface there are some great ideas about space utilization, storage and lighting as well.<br />Thirteen different room styles are shown such as graphic standard, cottage life, wood works, romantic white, elegant eclecticism, flower power, classical composed and inside out. Each style is described and several example photos are given. Captions highlight the details and important aspects that make up the room. An &quot;ingredients&quot; list tells all about the materials such as flooring, hardware, fabric, and wall covering that work in the space to create the right effect.<br />Unlike so many decorating books that show you lots of wonderful stuff and then leave you in the dark about where to get it, I was thrilled to see a resource list that tells you where to find all the elements used in the book. It even includes website addresses when applicable. With such a vast array of themes and ideas this book has something for everyone.	2001-07-22
1909467:US	52918997	RKU8ABOSF5SR8	1564964019	116054483	Color Harmony 2: Guide to Creative Color Combinations (This Bk Per Pub Is Titled Palette Picker Enough Thou the Bk Says Color harmOny 2. Isbn ... Palette Picker Isbn 1564960668 Is Just book)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Best book on color combinations, must-have for desingers	This is the best book on color I have found. It is a must have for anyone who has ever been confused about matching colors and creating the right mood. Though I was already fairly confident working with color, this book helped me a great deal by letting me see a wide variety of color combinations together.<br />The book begins by discussing the color wheel. This includes the facets of color such as hot, cold, light, dark, pale, bright, warm and cool as well as a great explanation of all the different color schemes. It is divided into over 20 different themes including romantic, friendly, earthy, fresh, calm, traditional, professional, magical, classic, tropical and energetic. For each of these themes a set of color schemes including monochromatic, primary, complementary, split-complementary, analogous, spilt, clash and neutral is shown. A brief tips section for using the themes in graphic design, interiors and fine art is also provided. In the back of the book there is a process color conversion chart that gives the CMYK values for each of the 106 colors used. Swatches that you can cut out are included. This is very useful for graphic designers.<br />A very helpful and versatile CD is included with this book as well. It allows you sort by color scheme or theme. You can also pick a color and then see all the color schemes that will work with it. Each color scheme is shown in several different forms and against black, white and gray. One of a color scheme's colors can be made bigger to be used as a background to the others as well. Colors can be saved and added to custom lists and exported to popular graphics programs like Photoshop and PageMaker. The color DIC number as well as RGB and CMYK values are also given.<br />The program does have some minor limitations. It can only search one aspect at a time. For instance you can't search for a rich theme with yellow. Also, if you search by color or color scheme you can't find out which theme set it originally belonged too. I found it a little hard to install and use at first as well.<br />This book and Color Harmony Workbook are pretty much identical in content. However, this one is smaller and contains a CD while the other has tear-out swatches. Because I was more interested in decorating my home the workbook was more useful to me. For a web or graphic designer using computers a lot this version will probably be of more help. If I had to select only one color book, this one or Color Harmony Workbook would be my first choice.oo. I found it a little hard to install and use at first as well. <br />This book and Color Harmony Workbook are pretty much identical in content. However, this one is smaller and contains a CD while the other has tear-out swatches. Because I was more interested in decorating my home the workbook was more useful to me. For a web or graphic designer using computers a lot this version will probably be of more help. If I had to select only one color book, this one or Color Harmony Workbook would be my first choice.	2001-07-22
1909476:US	52918997	R1DD6S1UHSCICC	1564966224	962523131	Sleeping Spaces: Designs for Rest and Renewal	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great ideas for creating bedroom retreats	This is a fantastic book for anyone looking for great ideas on decorating their bedroom and creating a special retreat. There are a wide variety styles from soft, simple and peaceful to eclectic and packed with books and art.<br />The book starts out with hints on choosing linens and the right mattress as well as keeping them in good shape. It also offers ideas for headboards and advice on choosing furniture. Feng Shui notes and secrets for getting a better nights rest are included here as well. There is even a section on using color.<br />This book not only covers bedroom basics, it also covers bedrooms as retreats and places for relaxing or taking a nap. I absolutely love the idea of creating a retreat in a tent. I also liked the sunny bedrooms with large windows and skylights. The pictures included are large and numerous with captions describing their details.<br />A list of architects and designers with contact information is included in the back. The other books in the spaces series are also very good. Looking at this book is a great way to find ideas suitable to your personal taste, no matter what it may be.	2001-07-22
1909498:US	52918997	R10TT29YQ9JBF	1564967069	522995371	Cooking Spaces: Designs for Cooking, Entertaining, and Living	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Wide range of styles, great ideas, good resource list	This is a wonderful book showing a wide range of kitchen styles from modern to country and blue and white to classical. It explains design secrets that help you create a beautiful, yet practical cooking space.<br />The book starts out with a short quiz that helps you determine your cooking lifestyle needs. It then discuses backsplashes, flooring, cabinets, storage and ventilation. In addition there are several cook's stories telling all about their history and about their dream kitchens.<br />I like the way the kitchens selected for the book combine aesthetics and ergonomics. The emphasis is on kitchens that work rather than on the latest technological gadgets. There are tons of ideas that can make any kitchen more functional.<br />There is a great resource list in the back, including website addresses, for finding accessories, appliance manufactures, lighting and hardware. Whether you are a professional chef or want to use your kitchen as a social gathering place, this book can be a great help to you.	2001-07-22
1909666:US	52918997	R1437DAPFD86VX	1564966208	253413393	Color Harmony for Interior Design	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Lots of color schemes for different moods	This is a wonderful book for anyone serious about decorating their home with professional results. The knowledge of color theory here will enable you to create an environment that will complement your tastes and life style for years to come. A wide range of styles is included and the color principles are adaptable to many more as well.<br />The book starts out with a brief explanation of the color wheel. Twelve color themes including spicy, exotic, dynamic, natural, luminescent, tropical, tranquil, coastal, classic, icy, luxurious and romantic follow. Each includes a few sample interiors, as well as monochromatic, complementary, analogous, split-complementary and neutral color scheme swatches. There are also many great tips on decorating and choosing accessories.<br />There are several different books in the color harmony series. This one focuses the most on interiors. While it does not contain as many color combinations or tear out swatches, it includes example rooms and decorating tips that the others do not. It also includes some unique color themes that focus on interiors. I highly recommend Color Harmony Workbook as well as this one for anyone working on decorating their home.	2001-07-22
1909757:US	52918997	R3CCDO73JV6HKX	2880464498	365728975	50 Beds (Pro-Design Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A wide varitey of imaginative beds	This wonderful book shows a wide variety of different beds. You see everything from an unusual lounge that supports you with gel-filled circles to an exotic canopy bed with hand-blown glass finials and hand-painted posts.<br />There is large photo of each bed as well as information on the materials it was made from and its special features. The designer, manufacturer, and design date are given as well.<br />Some of my favorites include a roll-up lounge bed shaped like a snail that would be great for lounging and an interesting looking wave shape chaise lounge. Some designs are amazingly innovative, like a bed that folds away and coverts into a desk and another that can be either a couch or a set of bunk beds. There is a cradle made of cardboard and crib/cot that can be expanded as a child grows as well.<br />Ranging from whimsical to practical, what all of these designs have in common is creativity and ingenuity. They are great for anyone trying to get ideas for designing their own bed. I was amazed at what an imagination some of the designers have.	2001-07-22
1921508:US	52918997	R1VZ6W54F7BW28	0823039056	9418691	The Pastel Book: Materials and Techniques for Today's Artist	Books	5	116	118	N	N	Extremely through, great reference	This is a wonderfully complete book covering all aspects of pastel painting. It is useful for both the beginner who needs to understand the medium and the experienced artist who needs a ready reference to a multitude of materials and techniques as well as a source of inspiration.<br />The book starts out with a very thorough overview of materials, spanning about 30 pages, with lots of pictures as well as descriptions of soft, oil and handmade pastel types with a detailed analysis by brand. Oil sticks, numerous paper types, mediums and tools are also included.<br />Basic pastel techniques are covered next including sketching, and pastel painting concepts such as liner, blocking-in, and atmosphere. Making corrections and the role of fixatives is also included. Then, you learn to create pastel textures by scumbling and dusting as well as by adding pencil or using fixative.<br />A comprehensive section on color theory follows, including an explanation of the color wheel and using metallic/iridescent colors. There are demonstrations on achieving transparency and using different paper colors. Numerous other techniques follow, showing you how to use pastels with other media such as watercolors, acrylics, modeling pastes, oils and gum tragacanth. The unique characteristics of oil pastels and oil sticks are given special treatment as well.<br />A list of quality suppliers as well as an index for easy reference are included in the back.  This is definitely a must have for any pastel artist.	2001-07-12
1921747:US	52918997	R1SRHBOTQ5E0VB	0823005925	681765270	Glazing Techniques (Ceramics Class)	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Great introduction to a wide varitey of glazes	Part of the terrific Ceramics Class series, this is a wonderful book for those just starting out using glazes. It packs a tremendous amount of information into a small book and is of immense help if you want to experiment with lots of different glaze types.<br />The book starts out with a great explanation of what glazes are made of and the coloring oxides used. Understanding and using formulas to make your own glaze recipes is next, along with glazing equipment and actual glaze preparation. Then working with commercial glazes and using a kiln is covered. Both gas and electric kilns are discussed as well as packing the kiln and the effects of temperature.<br />A variety of glazing methods complete the book, including dipping, pouring and using a brush or spray gun. The final chapters give lots of recipes and instructions for using a wide variety of glaze types including low/medium temp, high/very high temp, crystalline, raku, salt, ash, crackle, scotch topaz, celadon, and oxblood glazes. Using lusters and frit, as well as reduction and single firing are also covered here. A helpful glossary is included in the back.<br />This book presents a wealth of information in a logical and straightforward way. It truly tells you what you need to know. The multitude of color photos throughout, showing equipment, processes and beautiful finished pieces, are superb.	2001-07-12
1921948:US	52918997	R2WQ5PH0CJOB9I	1564966267	119896238	West Coast Rooms: Portfolios of 41 Architects and Interior Designers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great for those who love windows &amp; modern design	This is a wonderful book for those seeking inspiration on creating an open, airy home that lets the outdoors in. If you love windows then this is definitely the book for you.<br />The designs of over forty different architects and designers are shown here. Each tells a bit about the featured home and their design approach. There are several large color photos of various views in each home, with captions giving the details. The styles are predominantly modern and clean looking, but in a wide variety of styles and decor. There are no cute country ducks or rooms overstuffed with flower prints.<br />I loved the rooms with Asian accents. There is a wall of botanical prints in one home that is simply gorgeous - I'm sure I will do something similar in the future. The use of flower arrangements is fantastic. It amazes me how something as simple as a bouquet of sunflowers or vase of roses can really make these rooms into something special.<br />This book has been a great help to me. I know I will use some of these elements and ideas when I get to build my dream home.	2001-07-12
1922037:US	52918997	R2LZVB0OBHGAXJ	0823039072	292989853	Pastel for the Serious Beginner: Basic Lessons in Becoming a Good Painter	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Great reference, great for beginners	This is a great reference book for those just staring to learn pastel painting. It starts with the very basics and provides a solid foundation for the artist who has aspirations of taking their work to a commercial level.<br />The book starts out examining materials including the pastels themselves as well as surfaces, fixatives and tools. It also discusses studio and pallet setup as well as protecting finished artwork. It then explains the fundamentals of design and composition such as color, value, light, shadow and space, and the basics of technique such as starting with shape outlines, color blocking and working from dark to light.<br />Selecting and setting up subject matter is then discussed, including working from life, selecting a camera and using photography as and reference. Subsequent chapters focus on pastel drawing types including still life, landscapes, figures and portraits. Each section details the necessary procedures and elements such as lighting a still life, keeping a landscape in balance or posing a figure. A step-by-step demonstration of each type accompanied by reference photos is also included.<br />Drawing on the author's experience and expertise as an artist, this is a book you can truly follow from beginning to end to develop and improve your own skills and abilities in working with pastels.	2001-07-12
1922142:US	52918997	RCX8WB0CXPVA2	0823005933	919047431	Throwing Techniques (Ceramics Class)	Books	5	70	70	N	N	Great introduction to throwing	Throwing clay on a wheel must be the most exciting, challenging and frustrating part of the potter's art. This is a wonderful book to help those just beginning to throw clay on a wheel to realize the excitement and minimize the frustration.<br />The thorough explanations and attention to detail are what make this book so good. Everything is explained with step-by-step instructions with a clear color photo for each step in which you can really see what is happening.<br />The book begins by explaining tools and materials as well as plasticity and shrinkage of clay. There are then simple exercises in placing the clay on the wheel and forming basic shapes. The use of the hands as tools is well emphasized.<br />Moving on to real projects you will see how to throw bowls, plates, cylindrical pots, vases, spouts, handles, knobs, lids, jugs and a teapot. Throwing a bowl with a cylinder base and a vase is two parts is also covered.<br />As with the other books in the Ceramics Class series, Throwing Techniques provides a wealth of essential lessons. You'll need to practice but there isn't a better book to show you how it's done.	2001-07-12
1922262:US	52918997	RSVBIQA3EL8I3	1564963799	439048447	The Art of Enhanced Photography: Beyond the Photographic Image	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great collage art, wonderful cofee table book	This is a gorgeous coffee table book. I am mostly a rubber stamper and paper artist, and though I don't do much photography per se, I still love this book. It features a lot of collage art and ideas I know I can incorporate into my own designs.<br />The book is broken into four sections including transformed, constructed, extended and digital images. Each section features the work of 4 or 5 different artists. Each artist was interviewed, explaining their techniques and thoughts on their artwork. Four different full-page examples of each artist's work follows, with captions giving information on title, size and techniques used. There is also a gallery featuring examples of seven other artists' work.<br />Because I like to work with computer graphics I especially enjoyed the digital section. The still life with people in a soap bubble by Olivia Parker is really awesome. I love John Reuter's tile effect Polaroid transfers with nudes of as well. The winged pig of Maggie Taylor is another favorite.<br />A handy glossary and index are included as well as a directory of artists with addresses. With such a variety of techniques and approaches to art this book is truly inspirational.	2001-07-12
1922396:US	52918997	R3UM38VMM0VRMN	1560103892	12211638	Paper Cards (Make It With Paper Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Easy-to-make artistic &amp; elegant cards	I was very impressed by the artistry and sophistication of the designs in this book. They are definitely elegant, not cutesy or country, yet easy to make using simple tools and materials.<br />There are 13 complete projects including collage, printed, fold-out and photo holder cards. Each of these will lend itself to many more varieties depending on the paper and embellishments used. There are excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by full-color photos making assembly a breeze. Some, like the potato print card, would be great projects to do with a child. Additional sections include making your own envelopes and paper, and eight pages of paper samples.<br />If you are looking for beautiful cards that are simple to create and that will impress your friends and family, this is the book to get. It is also a great addition to any rubber stamper's library because the structures in these projects adapt easily to decorative stamping.	2001-07-12
1922688:US	52918997	R12PAI3H8IWZ3Z	0823005917	664197735	Hand Building Techniques (Ceramics Class)	Books	5	89	89	N	N	Great introduction to hand-build, wonderful projects	Another installment in the excellent Ceramics Class series, this is an excellent book for beginners who need detailed instructions a want great variety of projects.<br />The book starts out explaining the properties and types of clay as well as clay mixtures, maturing temperatures, porosity and tools used. Twenty projects follow using a variety of techniques including creating pinch pots, and building with coils, strips and slabs. For each technique there are four projects with clear step-by-step instructions. There is a color photo for each step that really helps show you what to do.<br />Some projects include a textured spherical vase, a coiled rectangular bottle, a cup built with strips and a slab-built wall. My husband collects rhinoceroses so I was thrilled to find instructions for building a detailed rhino sculpture. I liked an organic looking bowl and abstract giraffe shaped piece as well.<br />A brief explanation of kilns and firing as well as a glossary are included in the back. This book concentrates on the building process and is the perfect companion to the Glazing Techniques booking the same series.	2001-07-12
1922853:US	52918997	R153KG5CKQBC4G	1564964744	505931740	Wildlife Art	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fantasic, perfect gift for wildlife lovers	I love animals and I love art so there couldn't be a more perfect combination for me than this book. Many of the finest contemporary wildlife artists have contributed to this collection. Creatures from all areas including water, seashore, mountain, rainforest, field, forest, plain, lake, marsh and swamp are here.<br />Information on each piece includes the artist, title, medium and size as well as a brief note about it from the artist, giving the book a personal touch. My only wish is that some of the stunning artwork was a bit larger. Most are only about a half a page.<br />My favorite area is the rainforest. It includes a mama gorilla and baby, an adorable tree frog, a gorgeous macaw and a lizard chasing a butterfly. Favorites from other areas include a hooded warbler bird with rhododendrons, a selection of woodpeckers, rhinos under a baobab tree and a solitary cougar in the snow.<br />I like this book so much I plan to buy another copy so I can frame some of the pictures and put them on my walls. If you're seeking a wonderful coffee table book that will inspire you with the beauty and diversity of nature, this is the book to get.	2001-07-12
1957598:US	52918997	RKC81CUWBGL3T	081745554X	275493939	Polaroid Transfers: A Complete Visual Guide to Creating Image and Emulsion Transfers	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Must-have book for creating awesome polaroid transfer art	This is definitely a must-have book for anyone who wants to create incredible Polaroid transfer art. The instructions are excellent and the artwork wonderful. You will be amazed at the cool effects you can create with the remarkable property of certain Polacolor films that enable you to transfer the image or the emulsion layer carrying the image to a variety of other surfaces, such as paper, fabric, wood, etc.<br />The book starts by discussing the basic supplies needed including choosing the right printer and film. It then shows you both wet and dry methods for making image transfers. There is a great hints section that explains how varying things like heat, time before peeling or adding pressure can create different unique effects. There are instructions for both color and black &amp; white emulsion transfers with a helpful troubleshooting section.<br />My favorite section, creative techniques, follows. It includes awesome effects like making multiple exposures, making a mosaic of multi transfers and getting a scrambled image from heating in the microwave. Next, the author creates dramatic artwork by hand coloring with a variety of media.<br />In the advanced techniques section you learn about the three different transfer methods: in-camera, projection printing and slide-printer. Filtration and color theory are also discussed here. The fine art section focuses on finishing off the artwork by framing, matting and protecting it. All instructions are step-by-step and accompanied by demonstrating photos.<br />In the back, there is a large inspirational gallery featuring the work of 20 different artists with background information on the artist and his/her techniques, giving the book a personal touch. A complete resource directory, book and publication list and contact information for all the artists are also included. Get this boo; it is fantastic.	2001-06-15
1957710:US	52918997	RADM9JJUH5S0W	0823004961	430904645	The Big Book of Watercolor Painting: The History, the Studio, the Materials the Techniques, the Subjects, the Theory and the Practice of Watercolor	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Great reference, excellent history &amp; materials section	This is a wonderful reference book for the watercolor painter. It contains all kinds of useful information to help you understand the medium and improve your knowledge and skills.<br />The first 40 pages provide a great history of watercolor painting, so often overlooked in the overall scheme of art history. Then all the aspects of setting up a work area and studio are covered followed by a very thorough materials and tools section. There are example pictures and descriptions of everything from easels to paper and brushes to paint. There is also a paper stretching demo and a watercolor color chart.<br />A section on the principles of drawing follows. This includes instructions on making simple shapes, creating perspective, Plato's rule, golden sections, drawing a quick sketch and more. Then various watercolor techniques such as creating washes, erasing with a dry brush and achieving texture with salt and turpentine are covered. Next, there are two chapters on color theory and mixing explaining warm, cool and broken colors as well as color schemes and values. A nice demo of painting a watercolor with three colors is included.<br />The last chapters deal with techniques, skills and actually beginning the painting process.  Here you find information and advice on painting the human figure, skies, clouds, trees, landscapes, illustrations and seascapes. There are no real projects here and no reference photos. Rather the focus is on general advice for painting various subjects with example demonstrations. A helpful glossary is included in the back. This is certainly one of the most thorough, useful and entertaining books I have seen for the beginning watercolorist.	2001-06-15
1958313:US	52918997	R3RM9XDILMOU1H	0823004996	711769160	The Big Book of Painting Nature in Watercolor	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Fantastic, easily crate a vast arry of beautiful scenes	This is a fantastic book that shows you how to create a vast array of beautiful nature scenes and landscapes seamlessly. It is a must have for anyone wanting to paint nature in all its glory.<br />The book starts out with a discussion of tools and materials. It then explains color and its characteristics. A list of all the colors used in the book is provided here. The basic watercolor techniques are covering including laying washes, working wet-in-wet, using a dry brush, masking, creating highlights with an eraser, stippling and more.<br />The book is packed with over 130 lessons that teach you to paint trees, leaves, skies and water. Some projects include painting a delicate tree in a cloud-filled landscape, simplifying a close-up lacy crystal pattern, sorting out a maze or snow-covered branches, paining rapidly flowing water, capturing dripping rain and rendering water reflections.<br />Each lesson deals with a particular subject taken directly from a photograph and a specific problem such as capturing a stormy dawn with mostly dark color but making a thin reddish band look unforced. It then offers a basic solution and provides a step-by-step demonstration of how to go about painting the scene.<br />The wide variety of subjects and the consistent and detailed format of teaching in this book have really helped me improve my painting. The author has a great knack for breaking complex subjects into simple steps and focusing on what is important in making the painting a success.	2001-06-15
1961570:US	52918997	R1BRY84RNP0HDU	1564966259	407657713	Color Therapy at Home: Real-Life Solutions for Adding Color to Your Life	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Awesome and inspiring, great tips	The d&eacute;cor in this book is awesome and inspiring. There were very few room designs I didn't like. The rooms all have strong personality with a simple modern look. There are no flowery or country looks here.<br />The book is split into two sections. The first focuses on what colors are associated with in our lives. Objects are shown and their effects on emotions are discussed. It also explains and demonstrates the excellent and very useful 60-30-10 color rule.<br />The second section focuses on color functions for serenity, fantasy, healing, clarity, nurturing and spirituality. Here more full rooms are shown. I love the tips for formality, informality, local color schemes and stages of life. I also like the use of flower bouquet accents (fresh or silk) in lots of the rooms. They really add spice to the d&eacute;cor.<br />The color choice quiz in back of the book is great. It really helps you pick the best colors for any room in your home based on what personality you want it to have. If you want to truly use color to create the perfect atmosphere in any room get this book.	2001-06-12
1961598:US	52918997	R34KLF1EZUHQ9	1564967115	635752690	Making Memory Boxes: Box Projects to Make, Give, and Keep	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Wonderful &amp; unique boxes, they make great presents	This is a wonderful book filled with beautiful, unique boxes. Though they can be a bit time consuming, none of the projects are difficult and they can easily be made by a beginning crafter with a little patience.<br />The book starts out with the essentials of tools, materials and adhesives.  I found the adhesives chart, which compares 4 different adhesive types, very helpful. There are also recipes for paste and methyl cellulose. Binder's board (Davy board) is the basic structural element for most of the projects. Principles covered include grain direction, parts of the box, measuring, cutting, gluing, covering with paper and fabric and making neat corners.<br />There are 13 different box projects, including a buttonhole stitched box, jewelry box, postcard box, picture frame box, faux book box, ornament box, artist's portfolio and Victorian scrapbook. The directions are excellent and include a materials list and step-by-step instructions accompanied by clear demonstrating photos. A large picture of the finished projects is also included. Conveniently, there is a list of suppliers in the back.<br />This book is perfect for bookbinders, rubber stampers and scrapbookers, and makes a great addition to any paper artist's library. The boxes themselves make great gifts for your loved ones and will be treasured for years to come.	2001-06-12
1961947:US	52918997	R2GV1VJZUVYQPW	0823002586	304666099	The Crafter's Complete Guide to Collage	Books	5	57	57	N	N	Fantastic guide to all kinds of collage, inspirational	This is a fantastic book on creating a wide variety of great collage projects. It covers numerous collage techniques including using paper, mixed-media, fabric, decoupage, photomontage, computer art, found and three-dimensional objects. The beautiful galleries after each collage type are sure to inspire you.<br />In addition to the collage techniques you also get the basics of papermaking, papier mache, marbling and batik as well as painting and dyeing fabric.  There are step-by-step instructions accompanied by demonstrating photos for all the techniques and projects. Don't expect to make exact replicas of the projects since your sources and materials will vary. Rather, the author expects you will follow her assembling directions to create a unique masterpiece of your own.<br />Some of the sixteen projects include a gorgeous butterfly lampshade, a painted paper fruit bowl collage, a clock decorated with magazine scraps and nature objects, and a sewn fabric book cover. Another great project is an easy to make yet sophisticated looking Japanese box covered with scraps of yuzen or chiyogami papers.<br />This book filled with fresh and interesting ideas is sure to help you create gorgeous collage artwork.	2001-06-12
1962102:US	52918997	R7471FEORK1O	1564966151	824984987	3: The Best of Watercolor	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Spectacualr watercolor showcase, sure to inspire	This showcase book is packed with spectacular watercolor art with a wide variety of subject and style, including people, nature, still-life and abstract. It is delight to leaf through and a great source of inspiration.<br />Some of my favorite pieces include a beautiful lily pond landscape by David Lee and a portrait of a woman by Paul McCormack. I also liked two different collage style pieces fish and fishing poles by Patricia Scott and another with shells, birds and writing by Judy Hoiness. I enjoyed a colorful abstract by Margaret Manter and a still life of melons by Sue Archer.<br />Caption information includes artist, title, size, paper used and sometimes medium notes. Artist addresses and a brief note about the judges are included in the back. This book makes a great gift for the watercolor artist or enthusiast.	2001-06-12
1962147:US	52918997	R3EW42GQPWREI7	1564966879	250762251	The Best of Colored Pencil 4	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautiful coffee table book, inspirational	This coffee-table book is packed with beautiful colored pencil art covering a wide variety of subjects including people, nature, still life, and fantasy. Styles also vary from abstract and impressionistic to photo-realistic. It is a great source of inspiration and ideas.<br />I like it that there is only one piece of artwork on a page and you get more information than just the size, surface, artist and title. Each artist writes about themselves and the artwork. I think these added remarks really help you understand appreciate the artwork better.<br />Some of my favorites include an adorable bird on a fishing reel by Sylvia Westgard and a sunflower by Nancy Huges. I also loved another called Garden Party II by Priscilla Heussner featuring flowers floating in balloons. I enjoyed a portrait of ballet dancers by Thomas Thayer and an unusual fantasy tree with musical leaves by Mike Russell.<br />In the back there is a glossary and a directory of artists in case you wish to contact them. The variety here shows off the wonderful range of possibilities in this medium. This makes a great gift for any colored pencil artist or enthusiast.	2001-06-12
1962153:US	52918997	R1TAEB7GMZ2KUF	1564967417	57790272	Hand Lettering for Crafts: A Decorative Guide from A to Z	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Wonderful projects, great tips, inspirational	This is a great book to get you started using hand lettering in your crafts. The book starts out with basic information on tools and materials. Then there are great tips on transferring and using the computer to help your out if you handwriting and calligraphy skills are lacking.<br />The projects follow, and are broken up into lettering styles including romantic, modern, decorative, and vintage. Each section shows the full alphabet of several typestyles and a few have illustrations and notes of how to draw them correctly. For a beginner they can be traced and transferred. Typefaces include the basics like simple italic, block and script styles, decorative versals, uncials and art deco Anna, fun ones like Party and elegant ones like ITC Vintage. There is a typeface for almost any project.<br />A nearly endless array of projects can be enhanced with lettering and a wide range of typestyles are included here. My favorite projects include gilded glass coasters, an etched glass floating frame, botanical note cards, dotted gradient dessert plate and a raised Chinese character lampshade. All the projects are great and fairly easy to follow, but I was a bit disappointed that a full alphabet for my favorite typeface the author uses (stained glass) was not in the book.<br />In the back there is great resource list. There is also wonderful gallery that shows you all kinds of way to use calligraphy. It is very inspirational. The gallery artists are all listed in a directory with addresses, phone numbers and email address.  This book makes a great gift for anyone into crafts especially rubber stamp and paper artists.	2001-06-12
1962169:US	52918997	RK5UTS7GBM00O	1564966690	150036891	Jungle Luxe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exotic travel &amp; Architecture book, inpirational	An exotic travel book and an exotic architecture book in one. Even though I am not a hotel or resort designer, nor am I actively searching for a vacation spot, this book was ideal for me since I was looking to create the open, breezy, jungle feel of these tropical spaces in my own home.<br />Over twenty different resorts are detailed with numerous photos of each as well as information on design principles, materials used, interior design and amenities. There is also a people and places section give information on the architect, owner, and the resort's history.  Sixteen others are contained on single pages with a few small photos and text on the layout and design.<br />I love the vibrant colors and spacious feel of the Hotel Bel Air Costa Careyes. I also like the Hotel Salto Chico with its abundance of huge windows and the Hotel Bora Bora that has all its bungalows on stilts over the water. Since one day I hope to live in a dome home I love circular layout plan provide by the Banyan Tree Maldives.<br />I like it that the book features resorts that are have taken steps to be environmentally friendly. In case you would like to visit some of these beautiful places there is a map showing where each is located. Contact information including phone, website and email for each is also here.<br />This book takes you on a journey through the world to exotic locations. It is great for people looking for exciting travel destinations or for building and d&eacute;cor ideas for their own homes.	2001-06-12
1962175:US	52918997	R6EVLKZO1803T	1564967891	934954971	Garden Ornaments: 30 Beautiful Projects for Decorating Your Garden	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful projects with easy to find materials, inpirational	Garden ornaments are one of the hot decorating themes today. You see them in stores and catalogs all over. This book will inspire you to make your own unique and sophisticated items that will beautify and enhance your outdoor space for years to come.<br />The 30 projects include something for every taste and skill level. Some of my favorites are a stenciled sunflower tray, mosaic table, hammock, horse weather vane, garden awing, bat box, fish box planter, bird table, shell textured pot, evergreen topiary bird, window pane clock and a slate fountain. All have excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by demonstrating photos. A number of the projects require basic woodworking skills and tools.<br />Following the projects are advice sections on using color, buying paints and stains, and choosing and preserving lumber. Instructions are included for creating five different simple finishes and for aging metal and terra cotta. A nice list of suppliers is in the back.<br />If you're looking to create some great summer projects to spruce up your garden this is the book for you.	2001-06-12
1962387:US	52918997	R3LE02NKSJ3HYE	0823003043	359067419	Paper (Artisans) An Inspirational Portfolio	Books	5	8	8	N	N	delightful and elegant coffe table book	This is a delightful and elegant coffee table book for paper artists and enthusiasts. Its small size makes it handy to display almost anywhere and the spiral binding makes in easy to leaf through.<br />The book starts out with overview of paper including history and a summary of how paper is made and the materials used to make it. An explanation of techniques used to color and decorate paper follow. These include dyeing, marbling and watermark creation. International paper creation methods from Japan, India and Nepal are also included. These are not intended as instruction, rather as a general guide to papermaking methodology.<br />The remainder of the book is beautiful gallery featuring a wide variety of over 30 pieces of paper artwork. Many exotic, unusual and dimensional styles are represented. Each piece of artwork is displayed by itself on a single page. On the opposite page, along with the artwork title, size and date completed there is background information on and a quote from the artist.<br />A glossary, index and list of artists with contact information make this book complete. This will make a great gift paper lovers and serve as inspiration to any papermaker.	2001-06-12
1962621:US	52918997	R3RX4TWXJGR81H	082300791X	978343659	The Complete Guide to Decorative Stamping: Decorate Your Home Simply (Watson-Guptill Crafts)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Awesome sophisticated looking projects,inspirational	This is a terrific book on using rubber stamp techniques to decorate your home. It shows how practical and creative stamping can be for things other than just making cards. The projects are artistic have a sophisticated look and for the most part they are not too cutesy. Though sophisticated looking, with a little time and patience all the projects are fairly easy to create.<br />The book starts out with stamping basics such as masking, embossing, purchasing supplies and even making your own simple stamps. Principles of color and design follow. Stamping on various surfaces such as paper, wood, fabric, pottery, glass, clay, metal and leather are next. Then it is all put together in decorating your rooms. There is great information on assessing your room, making samples and working with patterns as well as creating borders, wreaths, and painted floors.<br />Over 15 projects follow including chest of drawers with elegant swirls, butterfly embossed velvet throw, lemon wall vine, paper mache bowl with leaves, orchard mini-chest and leather portfolio. My favorite project was the gorgeous Africa theme mica collage table. There are excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by clear demonstrating photos for all the projects. A large photo the finished pieces as well as a complete materials list is also included.<br />A few patterns and a resource directory are located in the back. This book is a great source of inspiration and ideas for decorating and makes the perfect house-warming gift for the stamper in your life.	2001-06-12
1962857:US	52918997	RXHY1UXLHHG7B	0823006557	37945520	Collage Techniques: A Guide for Artists and Illustrators	Books	5	91	91	N	N	Great for inpiration and ideas, wonderful varitey	This is a great book for any collage artist looking for inspiration and ideas. It is packed with a wonderful variety of collage examples and techniques.<br />The book starts out with some brief history and attitudes toward collage. Then the author explains materials and tools. This includes an overview of papers, adhesives, surface media and finishes. Basic collage techniques are also covered.<br />In the next section you are shown numerous collage pieces using a wide variety of materials including washi, stained, prepared and found papers, photographs, fibers and fabric. Concepts are discussed from the point of view of both technique and subject matter. Although not a project book per se, there are a number of examples of artists working in a step by step sequence that can be followed.<br />Design elements and principles including line, shape, color, texture, unity, variety, balance, emphasis, pattern, rhythm and contrast are covered. The book wraps up with sections discussing specific subject matters such as still lives, flowers, landscapes, people, social commentary, architecture, abstract and three-dimensional pieces.<br />Paper suppliers are listed in the back. While suitable for a beginner, this is a great intermediate level book with much to offer for those with some collage experience as well.	2001-06-12
1962983:US	52918997	R6R3KQP73J5KU	1564967824	834440107	Paper House: Beautiful Paper Crafts for Your Home	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful, great easy-to-create projects	This is a wonderful book packed with easy-to-create paper projects for every room in your house. With so much to choose from you can never get bored. Even if you don't like a particular style you can always look to these projects for inspirations and modify them suit your taste. Most use a combination of fairly simple techniques and don't require great artistic skill.<br />Some of the major projects include a chair layered with Asian character papers, a paper flower sconce, kirigami accordion window shade, paper table cloth, laminated paper vanity table, tissue-paper painting and frosted bath jars. All major projects include detailed step-by-step instructions with photos and materials lists. There are also over 20 smaller and even simpler projects with just text instructions and a project photos in the craft's gallery section. Some of the projects here include a Mexican paper place mat, mediation pillow, rainbow mobile, mirror frame and numerous lamp and lights.<br />There are templates for a few projects are a good list of suppliers in back. A list of contributing artist with contact information including websites is here as well. If you love paper, love to decorate and want to create fantastic projects, this is the book to get.	2001-06-12
1963012:US	52918997	R1JYBGEWWHO39K	1564966453	878999623	Watercolor Expressions: 123 Artists Create Moods with Brush and Paint	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful collection, lots of varitey,inspirational	This is a beautiful collection of watercolor paintings featuring a wide range of different subjects including nature, animals, people, landscapes and still lives. It will offer inspiration for years to come.<br />Each picture lists the artist, tile, size and paper used. A brief comment by the artist is also included. All images are placed one to a page. Contact information for each artist is included in the back.<br />Some of my favorite paintings include a colorful, energetic landscape titled the Blue Shadow Side by Harold Gregor and a portrait of four little girls of various ethnic backgrounds by Judithe Randall. I liked the whimsical mushroom piece called Magical Forest VIII by Jerry Little and the nostalgic tricycle by D. Denghausen. I also enjoyed a polar bear by Colleen Newport Stevens called Midnight on the Ice, done mostly with a wet-in-wet technique.<br />This book is a great addition to any watercolor artists or enthusiast's library. It also makes a great gift.	2001-06-12
1963019:US	52918997	R35NPY6QDWDRVL	0817437258	191389555	Creative Photo Printmaking	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Essential for learning to create speical effects	This is an essential book for any photographer who wants to learn to how to create stunning photographic artwork by manipulating photos. A wide variety of unusual and spectacular effects are presented. The beautiful examples have really inspired me.<br />First it covers manipulating, hand coloring, scanning and even recycling mistakes made with time-zero Polaroid film. Then black and white infrared photography using filters, metering and flash is covered along with film processing and printing. Bleaching and toning are next including great sections on copper split toning, posterization effects and creating pseudo flesh tones. Then emulsion transfers are shown including silverprint and liquid light. These create some great effects on non-traditional surfaces.<br />Image transfers and emulsion lifts follow. You are shown how to used a slide printer to make a print, make a projection print and transfer images onto non-paper surfaces like glass or silk, even getting two prints from one. Lastly, Polaroid instant slide films, solarization, photo transfers and hand coloring are discussed in detail.<br />All the instructions are excellent and thorough, covering everything from loading the camera to choosing and developing the film. There are a few demonstrations, lots of examples and great troubleshooting sections for each technique.<br />The appendixes in the back are very helpful. They include paper selection and characteristics, instructions on working with a copystand and a list of suppliers. This is a wonderful book to help the photographer with some darkroom experience move on to create awesome special effects photos.	2001-06-12
1963021:US	52918997	R2OHROHH30J4K0	0823039862	615036167	The Pen and Ink Book: Materials and Techniques for Today's Artist (Watson-Guptill Materials and Techniques)	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Good for int/adv, great materials explination, inpirational	The is a wonderful book for intermediate to advanced pen and ink artists looking for a thorough explanation of materials and a great discussion of the methodology of creating fantastic pen and ink artwork. It is packed with a wide variety of examples that are sure to inspire you.<br />The book starts out with a large (almost 50 pages) and excellent overview of materials and tools. I love it that the author takes the time to discuss numerous brands of pens, inks and papers instead of just generalizing them.<br />The following section focuses on ink drawing techniques. There is a good discussion of gray tones, parallel lines, value changes, hatching, cross-hatching and patterns. Then there are a few demonstrations of brush techniques such as laying a wash and using white on toned paper. Mixed media demos mixing wax crayons and acrylic with ink are also here as well as scratchboard and practice exercises.<br />The basic elements of drawing follow, including things like texture, shape, volume, color, rhythm and scale. Next, drawing strategies are covered. There are no projects or any step-by-step techniques per se. Rather, the author shows you examples of his artwork with advice on his approach, concepts and techniques. I recommend this book for those with some pen &amp; ink drawing experience seeking ideas, tips and inspiration. There is a good list of suppliers in the back.<br />Smith's surreal images and mastery of a variety of styles make this a book to enjoy for the artwork it contains as well as the instruction it provides.	2001-06-12
1963068:US	52918997	R2EB5USHSOIXSS	0823003051	772253132	Glass: An Inspirational Portfolio (Artisans)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful and elegant coffee table book	This is a delightful and elegant coffee table book for glass artists and enthusiasts. Its small size makes it a versatile accent piece that can be used almost anywhere and the spiral binding makes in easy to leaf through.<br />The book starts out with an overview of glass including history and a summary of how various types of glass are made. A variety of glass decoration techniques are then explained including glazing, painting, staining, sandblasting, acid etching, fusing, slumping, casting and bonding. These are not intended as instruction, rather as a general guide to glassmaking methodology.<br />A beautiful and varied showcase of over 30 pieces of glass artwork follows. Each piece is displayed by itself on a single page. On the opposite page, along with the artwork title, size and date completed, there is background information on and a quote from the artist.<br />There is a great glossary, index and list of artists with contact information. This book is fascinating for casual browsing and will inspire any glassmaker for years to come.	2001-06-12
1963069:US	52918997	R1R8SONFI71JO2	1564965856	707776812	Making Memory Books by Hand: Memories to Keep and Share	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful for the int/adv bookbinder, inspirational	This is a wonderful book for an intermediate to advanced bookbinder looking to spice up their book creations and make them into masterpieces. It is worth every penny just for the inspirational examples and galleries. They are great for when you created that gorgeous book and don't know quite what to fill it with.<br />The book starts out with the basics of materials and supplies. A very through demonstration of three different ways to make neat corners follows. Next come several unique and interesting projects all created by different artists. Its hard to choose my favorite projects, they are all so awesome. However, I really loved French travelogue made of wood with a hinged cover. The house, a book in a box, is really creative as well.<br />Though this book is great for inspiration, I really feel it is best for someone who has bookbinding experience. Yes, the book does have step-by-step instructions accompanied by demonstrating photos. However, it does no show or describe in detail any of the sewn bindings which could hinder a beginner. For example, it says coptic stitch was used, but did not tell you how to sew the coptic stitch. Also about half the projects are simply altered forms of a base project that was described in more detail. The variations have only a brief paragraph that is just a description, mostly without any real instruction.<br />Unfortunately, there is no list of suppliers. However, I like that contact information for all the contributing artists is listed in the back. This makes a great source of inspiration for any serious bookbinder.	2001-06-12
2015435:US	52918997	R198TZMAVUYHDC	0823007618	710983082	Colored Pencil for the Serious Beginner: Basic Lessons in Becoming a Good Artist	Books	5	102	106	N	N	One of the best books of colored pencil	This is one of the best books on colored pencil I have found. The artwork is beautiful and the instructions are superb. Projects and techniques are demonstrated step-by-step with color illustrations and photos.<br />The book starts with an overview of materials and tools including great advice of setting up a workspace. Then, it covers the fundaments of drawing such as perspective, volume, space, form and composition. The demonstration and discussion of color mixing and creating edges is excellent. This really helped me a lot. The book then goes on to help you really get started by giving tips on finding inspiration, using photographs, tracing and deciding when your project is finished. It explains color lifting and impressed line techniques as well as helping you build your own style.<br />The next section focuses of still life and floral drawings. It covers selecting and setting up a still life and well as lighting it. There are two great demonstrations of this. It nice that one included the photo the artist worked from making it easy to practice what the author describes. A section on landscapes follows. This gives all kinds of advice from working on location to assembling the elements of a basic photography kit.  There is a great discussion on finding the perfect setting and center of interest, as well as using color to suggest space. There are two demonstrations here as well, showing both naturalistic and fantasy landscapes.<br />The afterward on integrating art into your life and selling your artwork is great for the serious artist. Whether you are just starting out or having been using colored pencil as a medium for a while this is a wonderful book on the subject.	2001-04-30
2015444:US	52918997	R23UMYURODMXE3	0823005305	233688153	Botanical Illustration in Watercolor	Books	5	102	104	N	N	Absolutely the BEST BOOK on botanical illustration	This is the best book on botanical illustration I have found. It is suitable for all levels including complete beginners like myself. Although some artistic talent is certainly an asset, closely following the instructions here will come as close as possible to teaching virtually anyone to paint. From drawing to painting, it offers everything you need to create your own beautiful botanical artwork.<br />The book starts out by helping you choose a subject with practical advice on fruits, vegetables, flowers, mushrooms, bulbs, roots, trees, ferns, vines and more. Then, creating a space to work in and selecting materials from brushes to paper is covered. I love the many excellent tips on mixing colors.<br />The next section focuses on the many aspects of drawing including setting up a still life, planning the picture and transferring your drawing to watercolor paper. There are detailed step-by-step instructions for drawing a huge variety of botanical subjects including orchids, tulips and foxgloves. I really liked how the author discusses the various shapes of flowers such as round, teacup and tubular and then shows you how to block them out.<br />The final section covers the painting process. Along with numerous step-by-step demonstrations on painting botanicals there are hints on correcting mistakes, protecting your paper and tips on painting white flowers. Creating the initial washes, adding shadows, shading, layering and highlighting are included as well. To finish your artwork the author gives advice on matting, framing, exhibiting and selling your artwork.<br />The finished illustrations throughout the book are so beautiful. Each one has information on the kind of paper they are painted on, size and title.	2001-04-30
2015535:US	52918997	R2LK18ISO41HMM	1564965945	132340223	The Crafter's Project Book: 80 + Projects to Make and Decorate	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Create sophisticated looking, but easy to make projects	This is a wonderful book for someone like me who is into &quot;everything&quot;. It is packed with projects to suit anyone's taste, spanning a wide range of crafts including paper, fabric, ceramic, glass, metal, wire and wood. Most of the over 80 projects, while beautiful and sophisticated looking, are very quick and easy to create. Conveniently, most use easy to find and inexpensive materials.<br />Paper projects include numerous cards, a vellum circle ornament, and a multi-color layered-paper vase. In the fabric section you learn to make a hand-painted silk scarf, embossed velvet pillow, and photo-transfer lampshade. Ceramic and glass projects include etched glass coasters, stained glass napkin rings, an engraved slate frame and daisy-painted glasses. Other projects include bamboo place mats, a bistro beverage cart, a wall clock and a mosaic chime. If you're like me you'll find several things here that you have always wondered how to make and find them remarkably simple to create with this book.<br />The instructions are step-by-step and easy-to-follow. Patterns and temples are included when necessary. There is also a great list of suppliers in the back including websites. The projects in this book make great gifts. Also, since there is so much to choose from and projects are suitable for all levels, this book would make an excellent gift for the crafter in your life as well.	2001-04-30
2015539:US	52918997	R2EHNG266E5UX6	1564966763	748514060	Making Journals by Hand: 20 Creative Projects for Keeping Your Thoughts	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Fresh &amp; Creative ideas for decorating journals	Do you have tons of unadorned journals that you have made? Have you ever wondered what to put in them? If so, this is the book for you. It is packed with fresh ideas for decorating all those blank journals.<br />The book starts out teaching the basics of creating books. This includes making a spiral bound book, and rebinding a store-bought journal or vintage book. The instruction here tends to be a bit incomplete for a true beginner. If you want to make a journal from scratch, buying a true bookbinding book is highly recommended.<br />There are great ideas on variety of journal styles including daily, travel, recipe, garden, artists' sketchbook and triptychs. Each one has a different and easy-to-create binding. The instructions are step-by-step and accompanied by photos.<br />Where this book really excels is in turning your book into an artistic masterpiece.  There are lots of creative project ideas and techniques that I have not seen used in this way before. Some include wax resist, image transfer, plaster paper, emulsion lifts, and creating carved stamps.<br />The examples though the book and in the gallery are stunning. The resource and book list is very helpful. It's nice that it also includes a list with email address of all the artists in the book. If you want to turn you journal into a true work of art, this is the book to get.	2001-04-30
2015592:US	52918997	R3KH5QHSPWOFYE	1564966550	183339937	East West Style: A Design Guide for Blending Eastern and Western Elements at Home	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great blend of western &amp; Asian design	This is a wonderful book for anyone wanting to elements of Asian design, which are so popular today, to their home. With so much to choose from you can't help but be inspired. Sections focus on various principles including simplicity, order, proportion, harmony, balance, color and texture. Examples in photos are accompanied by descriptive text.<br />Since I am a crafter I am always on the lookout for the things I can make for myself and I saw many here that I could. My favorite idea is a Japanese-style dining table that is sunken into the ground. It looks so elegant and I am dreaming of having one someday. They also use lots of screens, which are one of my favorite elements with their beauty and versatility. I though an attic room with a semi-hidden bed was a great idea as well.<br />I appreciate the practical approach here of incorporating authentic Asian design into existing Western homes of various types. If you are looking for some fresh ideas for your home and want a simple, yet elegant style this book will give you some great ideas.	2001-04-30
2015596:US	52918997	R3R5GNNSTYWGDT	1564965864	592074638	Hand Coloring Black & White Photography: An Introduction and Step-by-Step Guide	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Great for hand-tining without buying tons of supplies	This is a wonderful book for anyone wanting to hand-tint photographs without buying a bunch of expensive supplies. Most projects use easy to find and relatively inexpensive colored pencils (like Berol prisamacolor) instead of fancy photo oil and specialty markers. A special effects gallery in the back shows photo that were colored with markers, watercolors, acrylics and mixed media.<br />The book starts out with a brief explanation of materials, film types, print surfaces, shooting pictures and presenting your finished piece. An introductory how-to hand-tint a photograph is included as well.<br />The people chapter follows. Here you learn to create realism and give your photo a romantic feel. Coloring both vintage and contemporary photos is covered. Next, the place section covers nature, flowers, architecture and an animal landscape. The final section focuses on advanced techniques and uses more specialty products. You learn techniques for toning, staining, dyeing, and using oil paints.  Each of the projects is demonstrated step-by-step. A materials list and color swatches of the pencils used is also included.<br />I admit the author could have been a bit more detailed about materials and the oil mixture. However, this is a great book overall with very nice, easy-to-follow examples and I believe it is suitable for all levels.	2001-04-30
2015615:US	52918997	R1WGZI6WT922T5	0823048667	649297338	The Soapmaker: Natural Handmade Soap from Your Kitchen	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Great for making easy decorative soaps	This book teaches you the soap from soap method of soapmaking. Instead of actually making the soap, you take pre-made soap, shred it and make new soap out of it. This simplifies the process and allows you to create your own designer soaps without a lot of hassle. If you want to avoid the mess and complexity of making soap from scratch with lye, tallow and such this book allows you to make the basic soaps more decorative by adding colors, scents and additives.<br />The book starts out with step-by-step instructions, accompanied by photos, of the basic soapmaking processes.  It then discusses the many ingredients of the soaps including scents, oils, colors and other additives. A basic list of essential oils and absolutes along with a description of their aroma, blending options and any warnings is also included.<br />The rest of the book is dedicated to making soap and bath products. Unfortunately, only about half are accompanied by pictures, so it can be hard to tell what it will and should look like when you're finished. There are sections on whipped cream and glycerin soap as well as soap balls, liquid soaps and other bath items such as shampoo and body powder. Some of my favorite recipes include mint and lavender slice, red sky crescent moon soap, liquid lime soap, milk bath and fantasy body dust.<br />There is a great list of suppliers in the back including websites. An index was helpful in finding things as well. Overall, I found this book to be helpful in creating decorative soap and bath items for friends, family and myself.	2001-04-30
2015655:US	52918997	RH2WA7RLSJK34	1564964450	523905643	The Crafter's Recipe Book: 200 New Ideas for Decorating Objects in Paper, Fabric, Ceramic, and Wood	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Wonderful array of projects, great for rubber stampers	This is wonderful book for crafters of all types. With 200 different projects, you're sure to find something to perk your interest.  It is amazing how simple many of the techniques are and the stunning results that can be achieved with them.<br />There are tons of fresh ideas here for fabric, paper and other materials. Each technique has a color example of the product and a materials list. While the instructions are brief, usually taking only a few lines, they are for the most part easy to follow. Basic instructions for sewing and knitting as well as stencils and patterns are also included in the back.<br />Some techniques taught include carving paper, crayon batik, ice marbling, smocking paper, faux stained glass, inlaid felt designs, branding fabric, photo emulsion transfer and sand painting, knitting wire and icing with plaster. Mini galleries showing experiments in things like paste paper, tea dyeing and fabric stippling in additional to numerous other variations and combinations throughout the book are there to help guide and inspire you.<br />Though this is not a rubber stamp book, per se, I highly recommend it for rubber stamp, paper and fabric artists alike. The techniques taught here make great accents and backgrounds, adding spice to any project.	2001-04-30
2015695:US	52918997	R2ECAS20GUSQMN	1564963152	281371789	Creative Pottery: A Step-By-Step Guide and Showcase	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great tips, wonderful galleries	This is a nice introduction to pottery techniques for initial constructions to fishing off with surface decorations and firing techniques. The large galleries are a great inspiration for artists of all levels.<br />The book is broken into three main sections: forming, surface and firing. The first focus on creating clay objects; both throwing techniques and slab construction are covered here. Projects include making cups, a square covered jar and a slab teapot. The second section concentrates on surface techniques included raw glazing, majolica decoration and using terra sigillata. The third section gives instruction on three different firing techniques including using a gas reduction kiln, anagama kiln and raku-firing.<br />You are guided seamlessly though each project with step-by-step instructions and photos. In the surface and firing sections the emphasis is on the finishing technique being featured, with basic information on how the object to be decorated was created. Some knowledge of the creation process is assumed. Each projects includes &quot;notes for the studio&quot; that I found very helpful. They give great advice on everything from the amount of clay your glazes contain to getting jar lids to fit correctly.<br />There are beautiful galleries of numerous pieces after each section as well. Information on the gallery objects includes the artist, techniques used and size in both metric and English measurements. Contact information on the artists is provided in the back.<br />In addition there are clay and glaze recipes from each artist. There are over 30 in total including a majolica base and Ferguson blue raku glaze. A list of schools that offer intensive workshops in pottery is also included. Although a fully equipped pottery studio is needed to complete most of the projects, this book offers a great overview of processes and techniques for the novice and wonderful examples of finished work for the lover of the potter's art.	2001-04-30
2015789:US	52918997	R18BVG9IC9AZ7J	1564966399	609004149	Origamid: The Art of Paper Folding	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Awesome, Beautiful, Fantasic origami art coffee table book	This is a must-have coffee table book for origami enthusiasts. The origami models are very impressive and inspirational. As someone just starting out with origami I am amazed by the awesome and complex forms that can be folded. I loved gazing at the Arizona hummingbirds, mushroom collection and pangolin (anteater). The variety of origami art from roses to rock crystal to a three-headed dragon and a chessboard with pieces is fabulous. Vincent Floderer's display case of life-like mushrooms is phenomenal.<br />Though this book is mostly a gallery of origami art there a few projects. Advanced students will enjoy challenging items such a bucky ball, paper airplane and mask. Beginning and Intermediate students should try the paper fastening flower and talking lips toy.<br />Information including the artist, size, paper used and some commentary accompanies each origami masterpiece. A resource guide, international organization list and artist directory is also included in the back. It's really nice that in many cases they tell you where you can find instructions (which book) for making the model. This book makes a great gift for any origami connoisseur.	2001-04-30
2016030:US	52918997	R25WQ9E3RXLMM9	0823039323	17232855	The Paper Decorator	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Create beautiful and sophiticated items for your home	This is an awesome book that shows you how to create sophisticated items for your every room in your home with easy-to-find materials. A wide variety of techniques in paper arts and crafts present endless decorating possibilities. The instructions are easy-to-follow and step-by-step including photos demonstrating each technique. Though some projects are time-consuming and require some patience, they are not necessarily hard to create.<br />The book starts out by showing you how to create your own paper, including making a mold and deckle. It then guides you through the essentials of paper mache including layering paper, pulp casting and relief formation. Several paper decoration techniques follow, including waxing, dyeing, using a latex resist, bleaching, stamping, stenciling, decoupage, collage and gilding.<br />Over 20 full projects follow, and they provide ideas for many more. My favorites include the flower screen, music floorcloth and modern looking coffee table made of cardboard. Other cool projects include collage wallpaper, an exquisite checkered table top, a leaf blind, herb pot, an embossed drawer unit, paneled lampshades and a mosaic window border.<br />There are also some very helpful hints and tips as well as a nice resource guide in the back. Even if you don't particularly like the style or theme of something this book will give you the basics of the projects and you can let your creativity flow. With so many different ideas, this book is nothing if not inspirational.	2001-04-30
2016066:US	52918997	RJPFRDQAG8R4L	1564965821	383056656	Best of Colored Pencil 5 (No.5)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great coffee table book, inpirational	This is a beautiful coffee table book for colored pencil artists and enthusiasts. Subjects span a wide range from people to landscapes to animals and still life works. There is something here to suit almost anyone's taste. This wonderful variety truly shows off the possibilities of the medium.<br />Some of my favorites include Donna Basile's close-up baby face, Carol Tomasik's &quot;Flying Fish&quot;, and an American Indian on horse titled &quot;Me-A-Pa-Te&quot; by Stan Pawelczyk. I also enjoyed Elizabeth Holster's &quot;Isle Royale Portage&quot;; this landscape could easily be mistaken for a photograph it is so vivid. I would have to say my absolute favorite is by &quot;Wing Nuts&quot; by Mike Russell. It's hard to describe, but it's very unique. It shows sunflowers and bees in a fantasy scene.<br />I really like that instead of just listing the basics about each piece, like title, size and paper used, they also include commentary from the artist who created it. This gives you insight into what the artist was thinking and adds a personal touch to the book. A Directory of artists, as well as a glossary, is also included in the back. This makes a great gift for any colored pencil artist.	2001-04-30
2016276:US	52918997	R30KRO6Z9OWVDT	0823057275	339567579	Wild Color: The Complete Guide to Making and Using Natural Dyes	Books	5	96	98	N	N	Great easy-to-follow dyeing book, very helful for newbies	I am new to natural dyeing and found this book to be extremely helpful. I looked at many dyeing books before purchasing this one. Unlike some other books this one gives tons of useful information without getting too technical or overwhelming. Because it is in full-color it also lets you see examples of the colors you can achieve. There are excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by photos to guide you seamlessly through each process.<br />The book starts out with an introduction to the history of dyeing. It then discusses, choosing equipment and items to dye. Next, testing the water pH, preparing fibers and fixing colors is covered. Making and using mordants is also covered including timesaving tips on how to combine mordanting and dyeing. Conveniently, two charts help you choose the proper mordant and assist.<br />Preparing plants for dyeing follows. The processes for hot, cold and all-in-one dyeing are then demonstrated. A chart including all the dye plants shows you which methods will work best for each one. Special techniques for dyeing with indigo, woad and safflower are covered separately. There is also great advice on experimenting with color and a good explanation of how dyes are absorbed into different fibers.<br />Information on the over 60 dye plants follows. Each one has a picture of the plant, a written description of it and it's color along with information on cultivation, harvesting and the dyeing procedure. A set of color swatches showing color with and without modifiers or mordants is also included. Sometimes even a second set of swatches is shown for different parts of the plant.<br />If you are new to dyeing and want a through, yet easy-to-follow guide to natural dyeing this is definitely the book to get. It hard to imagine with all this information that even a more advance dyer wouldn't find a few helpful tips.	2001-04-30
2016306:US	52918997	R24ZSD9ZR7KXSR	0823044181	730375756	Professional Painted Finishes: A Guide to the Art and Business of Decorative Painting	Books	5	99	99	N	N	Very throurogh, great high quailty painted finishes	This is a wonderfully thorough book on creating the highest quality specialty painted finishes. It is advanced enough for the serious decorative painter while the instructions are detailed enough to allow the amateur or novice to try these techniques with outstanding results. The interior designer will also find it to be a valuable source book for fresh exciting design ideas.<br />Overall, the projects are more sophisticated and time-consuming than those in most books. A great deal attention is paid to tiniest details that make these finishes really stand out. The instructions are excellent, showing you how to create each finish step-by-step with a complete text description and demonstrative photos. Complete material and supply lists and recipes accompany each project.<br />The book starts out with the basics such as materials, safety, surface preparation and finishing coats. The glaze section is next with information on multi-layer glazing, novelty effects and techniques for glazing in small and large areas. There is great chart of problems and solutions and another on how tools affect glazing as well.<br />The simulation of marble and stone follows. Here the author talks about the formation and replication of stone before going on to the projects, which include fifteen marble and stone types such as malachite, granite, red levanto and French grand antique.<br />The section on graining is fantastic. It contains the most in-depth information on graining I have found anywhere. There is an analysis of patterns, a discussion of color, techniques for creating knots, troubleshooting section and color swatches of straight gained wood styles. There are over 20 wood types covered. Some include American oak, Brazilian rosewood, orientalwood, burl and birds-eye maple.<br />The final section of the book talks about setting up a professional practice. It contains financial planning, estimating, sample-making and much more. The appendix gives a great list of sources, lists English and metric equivalents and has a nice glossary of terms. If you want to create truly professional looking finishes, this is the book to get.lish and metric equivalents and has a nice glossary of terms. If you want to create truly professional looking finishes, this is the book to get.	2001-04-30
2016317:US	52918997	R3N6BNIQCV0CA1	156496213X	326195851	Textile Dyeing: The Step-By-Step Guide and Showcase	Books	5	59	59	N	N	Great intro to many dyeing techniques, great dye mixology	This book presents a great introduction to many different dyeing techniques using either fiber-reactive or acid dyes. The numerous galleries throughout the book will help inspire you.<br />The book starts out with a great explanation of the types of dyes, paints and pigments available. It then covers techniques and tools including good safety advice and fabric preparation. Tips for over-dyeing, stitching and direct application are here too.<br />Next, thickened dyes, gutta and watercolor techniques are used to create painterly effects. Tied-resists follow including finger-pleated silk and nouveau shibori. Then batik, block- printing and marbling are taught. The instructions are excellent with detailed step-by-step processes accompanied by photos. However, be aware the projects here teach techniques. There are no templates or the like so it would be nearly impossible to create an item identical to the ones in the book.<br />The best part of the book is the chapter on color theory and dye mixology. It thoroughly explains the cryptic instructions that come with dyes and how to create your own recipe card.<br />The galleries are awesome. There is one for each section and each includes at least eight different artists displaying their work with the basic techniques used. A directory of all the artists including phone numbers is included in the appendix along with lists of supplies, schools that have degree textile programs and a glossary of terms.	2001-04-30
2016319:US	52918997	R3MQ3Y7W1WWKKB	0823000540	809652424	Absolute Beginner's Origami: The Simple Three-Stage Guide to Creating Expert Origami	Books	5	116	118	N	N	Great for begginer's, easy enough for anyone	I've used a number of books trying to get started in origami and found most of them lacking or disappointing in some way. This one is the exception. The projects are basic, yet fun. They are great for kids or anyone who has struggled with origami in the past like myself. You won't be pulling out your hair trying to figure out what you are supposed to do next.<br />I was thrilled to discover folding guides for most of the projects. This is something I have not seen in any other book. You can photocopy them and practice before wasting good paper. If only every origami book would include this! Conveniently, some colored origami paper to get you started in also included. I really like the spiral bound binding as well allowing the book to lay flat as you practice.<br />The book starts out by helping you select paper and learn the basic folds such as the mountain, squash and rabbit's ear with clear step-by-step photo instructions to get you off to a good start. Then many bases are covered including the kite, diamond, fish, waterbomb, preliminary, frog, bird, and windmill.<br />The projects follow with some of my favorites being the star box, iris, butterfly and flapping bird. There is a beautiful gallery in the back showing examples of more advanced origami projects. This is the perfect book for anyone wanting to get started in origami.	2001-04-30
2016368:US	52918997	R2EVRKU4C6XT4Z	1564966348	704099865	Painting Faux Finishes With the Color Shaper Wide: A Creative Guide for Faux Finish Painters : With Color Shaper	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great easy-to-create projects, neat effects	This is a great book for the decorative artist. The effects you can achieve are both stunning and easy to create. They give a unique look to any project.<br />The book starts out with an overview of wide color shaper types and basic strokes as well as instructions for preparing and finishing surfaces. Then it shows you how to create faux stone, faux wood, fabric looks and fantasy textures. Some projects include a malachite chest, marble table, blue patterned cupboard, kilim floorcloth, damask roller blind and ceramic tile trivet.<br />Further pattern recipes are in the back. Some of these include lapis lazuli, woven plaid and wavy cross-band design. The instructions for everything are excellent, demonstrated step-by-step with photos. Most projects use latex paints, glazing liquid and a water-base varnish and include a complete materials list.<br />My only wish for the book was a suppliers list. Wide color shapers can be difficult to find. Buy this book with the color shaper included if you can.	2001-04-30
2016377:US	52918997	R1MESX08KGOSI0	0823002780	848432614	The Art of Polymer Clay: Designs and Techniques for Making Jewelry, Pottery, and Decorative Artwork	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Great array of projects for intermediate poly clay artists	This is an excellent book for the intermediate polymer clay artist. The projects are fun and sophisticated. I have nearly ten different polymer clay books, but this is the only one I have found that shows you how to make full-size floral forms.<br />The book starts out with an excellent introduction to the basics of selecting materials and explains how to choose among the different brands of clay. Conditioning the clay, color mixing and making basic shapes is covered next. A wide variety of techniques and projects follow.<br />Some techniques include millefiori with instructions for making and using lace, checkerboard, pinwheel, chevron, plaid, spliced, radiating, kaleidoscope, shaded and face canes. The rose cane is gorgeous. Onlay techniques, working with glitter, metal leaf treatments and making beads are next. I love the author's ideas for quilted and Balinese filigree beads. She then goes on to explain carving clay and creating Bakelite like forms.<br />Next comes the process of making and using molds including taking you step-by-step through making an Asian man face pin. Then, imitative techniques simulating precious stone like jade, marble, ivory, agate and red jasper are covered. There is a great recipe for turquoise. Translucent effects for creating opals and metal effects for creating mokume gane and patinas are a great help. There is even a technique to get a marbled paper look.<br />Vessel construction follows. Projects included a woven vessel, unlined pot, mosaic bowl and curved box. The book ends with a few sculpture lessons including making a harvest candlestick with several vegetable forms. A great seahorse sculpture and a creating a realistic doll's head are also here.<br />Though the instructions are fine for someone with a little polymer clay experience, they are in some cases simply not detailed enough for a total beginner. However, with so many beautiful projects and ideas, this book will provide inspiration for years.	2001-04-30
2016478:US	52918997	RYK43NW6G09SP	1564964175	77702063	Easy Solutions: Color Mixing : How to Mix the Right Colors for the Subject Every Time : Watercolor	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great advice of choosing the right color for every project	This is a wonderful book that helps you learn to mix watercolor effectively to achieve stunning results. The artwork used throughout is beautiful and inspirational.<br />The book is broken into four sections including still lives, landscapes, florals, and wildlife. There are twelve projects in all, three per section and each project is taught by a different watercolor artist. This is a wonderful approach to learning from a variety of methods rather than forcing a single style on the student.<br />Individual techniques are demonstrated in step-by-step progressions. These including things like shaping objects with color, pouring luminous washes, floating colors on damp paper, and mixing intense or bright colors.  The artists' own thoughts and theories behind their techniques are well explained in the text.<br />There are mini biographies of all the artists in the back with contact information. The emphasis on the color mixing process and the variety of examples makes this a most valuable reference in the watercolor artist's library.	2001-04-30
2033016:US	52918997	R1PEE6NPRTK8GI	1564967530	195464358	The Paper Shade Book: Simple Techniques for Making Beautiful Lampshades	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Great varitey, shades are easy &amp; inexpensive to make	This is a wonderful book for anyone who wants to make impressive looking lampshades without spending a fortune. With styles ranging from classic to modern, elegant to wacky, they are exciting and fun to make, and much more interesting than store-bought.<br />The book starts out covering all the basics such as fixture selection, measuring, and gluing. Choosing paper and creating surface effects along with crafting &amp; trimming a basic shade are also included. Each shade design includes a complete materials list and step-by-step, easy-to-follow instructions accompanied by helpful photos. A large picture of the finished project is also included.<br />Over 20 projects cover a variety of shapes such as square, conical, and fluted. They also use a wide range of materials including vellum, twisted craft paper, unryu paper, and papyrus. Most of the materials are easy to find. Some of my favorite projects include a double-decker marbled lampshade, basket weave shade, Japanese lantern and musical script coolie.<br />In the back there are templates with exact enlargement requirements for all the shades. A nice list of suppliers is also included. This would make a very nice housewarming gift for someone into crafts.	2001-04-16
2033138:US	52918997	R45YCCLWZHAN0	156496423X	628558193	Outdoor Rooms: Designs for Porches, Terraces, Decks, Gazebos	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Fresh ideas, lots of variety, great mixing of materials	When looking for fresh ideas and inspiration on how to create the prefect outdoor space you needn't look any further than this book. From a modern symmetrical porch to lush English gardens, it showcases a wide range of styles. With so much to choose from anyone can find something to suit their taste.<br />Many of the outdoor rooms have pools. It is amazing how they manage to flawlessly integrate the pools into the environment without making them seem out of place or just thrown there. The magnificent outdoor spaces truly become a part of the home.<br />I love the combination of styles and how they compliment one another. One room features the creamy white walls of Greece, a timber roof and hot Mexican colors in a cushioned seat. Large color photos tell the story with brief descriptions of each example.<br />In the back there is a sampler of fine furnishing and accessories form a variety of different styles including historical, rustic, Mediterranean/island, and geometric. There is also a helpful directory of design professionals, photographers and product sources.	2001-04-16
2064336:US	52918997	R38X5A3YQ9B7IF	0823020819	343541659	The Gilded Room: Decorating with Metallic Effects, from Metal Leaf to Powders, Pastes and Paints	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Awesome metal effects and wonderful projects	Though I have numerous books about decorative finishes, this is the only one that focuses on metal effects. It is packed with fresh ideas and techniques not seen elsewhere. While many other books focus on cute floral or antique looking interiors, there are many projects here with a clean, modern, metallic look, along with classical styles as well.<br />There are over 15 projects including a faux-gold wall, aluminum wall paneling, metallic-effect patterned floor tiles, mesh lampshade with metal accents, Moroccan-style shutters, a steel-effect column and an incised gesso plaque. Each project includes a materials list, and step-by-step instructions accompanied by photos. A discussion of the project and large photo of the finished design is included as well.<br />Technical information is included in the back. There is a photograph of just about every tool and material you will use. The author also guides you seamlessly through preparing size and gesso. The details of water-gilding, gilding with oil and acrylic size, finishes, metal patination, and painted metallic effects are also shown. There is also an awesome section spanning nine pages that shows swatches of over 70 special effects including painted patinas, metal-leaf patinas, and patterned metallics.<br />If you love the look of metal then you need to buy this book. With so much information and so many inspirational ideas you won't be disappointed.	2001-03-18
2064354:US	52918997	RFAZBNVIR7MQ3	1564963780	230674389	Paperart: The Art of Sculpting With Paper a Step-By-Step Guide and Showcase	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beatiful Galleries, Varitey of projects	This is a wonderful book filled with over 15 projects including folded paper (origami), assembled paper (paper sculpture) and art created with paper pulp. Beautiful and inspirational galleries after each project show you more advanced artwork using similar techniques and opening your eyes to endless possibilities.<br />Each project includes a materials list and is demonstrated step by step with photos and sometimes illustrations. Helpful tips for each are also included. Though the instructions are good, there are no templates and some artistic talent or experience is necessary for many of the projects. My favorite projects include a washi doll, twisted paper box, and a pulp painting.<br />In the back there is a nice list of suppliers and websites as well as a few organizations and educational programs. There is also a directory of artists with contact information. If you want a sampling of the paper art or just need inspiration this is the book to get.	2001-03-18
2064511:US	52918997	R1H5SOOT6C20JH	1564966372	532886810	Polymer Clay for Everyone	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful Projects, Lots of Varitey, Great instruction	This book is full of a wide variety of fresh projects for beginning to more advanced polymer clay artists. Each project includes step-by-step instructions accompanied by illustrations and finished project photos.<br />The book starts out by thoroughly covering the basics, including a discussion of several tools that will make working with polymer clay easier. Over 25 projects follow in 5 sections including miniatures, jewelry, gifts, home accents, and special occasions.<br />Miniature world is my favorite section. You learn to make impressive projects such as a grandfather clock, Victorian fireplace and Christmas tree. The jewelry section is also a treat. Along with a necklace, bracelet and earrings, it shows you how to make a bunch of different of beads and buttons.<br />My favorite project was the sun &amp; sea clock. Though it is time consuming it is surprisingly easy to create. I have seen similar items in craft stores sell for over $50. The special occasion projects are little less sophisticated, but great for doing with kids during the holidays. I personally loved making the simple, but beautiful decorated eggs.<br />Conveniently, a list of suppliers is included in the back and templates are provided with instructions when needed. This makes a great gift for anyone wanting to learn all about polymer clay and try a medley of great projects.	2001-03-18
2064561:US	52918997	R3O7X1GTGTLAZM	1564963292	896542058	Paper Sculpture: A Step-by-Step Guide	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Beautiful galleries, Some great projects	This is a wonderful book for anyone interested in paper sculpture. Each project is followed by a wonderful gallery of similar work by the demonstrating artist. These make the book worthwhile for anyone who appreciates the medium even if they don't do the work themselves.<br />The book starts out with a brief introduction to paper sculpture and overview of paper sculpture techniques. Nine projects, each directed by a different artist, follow. Though the instructions are arranged step-by-step with photos, there are some advanced techniques involved and some experience and talent would be needed to create some of the more elaborate projects. There are also no templates, so making a project that looks exactly like the one in the book it almost impossible.<br />I didn't try all the projects, but did enjoy making the sun. It is fairly simple and looks so great using marbled papers. I would have liked to try the goldfish and the swan shown on the cover, but I felt they were a bit to time-consuming and complex for me. Other projects, like the Liberty Bell and too cute chicken wreath, just didn't perk my interest.<br />All in all, I'm glad I bought the book. The artwork examples are great and have inspired me to try some things on my own such as butterflies, fish and landscapes. I like that they list all the artists with contact information, awards they've earned and clients they've served. A list of schools that offer professional instruction is also a nice bonus.	2001-03-18
2064861:US	52918997	R2MP9QN9HMSR6L	1564966992	676889857	The Contemporary Potter: A Collection of the Best Original Work in Earthenware, Porcelain, and Stoneware	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful coffee table book, impressive artwork	This is a delightful coffee table book featuring an impressive selection of earthenware, porcelain and stoneware. It includes a wonderfully diverse array of styles and techniques masterfully executed by contemporary craftsmen. With over 800 unique pieces, it will provide me with inspiration for years to come.<br />I loved a shimmering vessel created by Robert Piepenburg and the teapots by Rimas VisGirda with women smoking. I also enjoyed a thrown jump pot with buffalo and abstract nude male/female teapots. I found a whimsical coil-built stoneware plate called indigo sky with a man hanging on to the moon truly delightful as well.<br />The layout is straightforward. Each piece includes a large color photo and brief information on the techniques used to create it, the artist and the dimensions in both English and metric. The photography and overall quality of the book are excellent. There is also an index including the address of all the artists in the book that is helpful if you wish to purchase from one of them.	2001-03-18
2065034:US	52918997	R186EN5VS15OM6	1564963535	578526832	Brush, Sponge, Stamp: A Creative Guide to Painting Beautiful Patterns on Everyday Surfaces	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Colorful easy-to-create projects	This book is full of bright colorful designs and patterns to spruce up any object in your home. With so many techniques, you can pick and choose between them to create your own unique pieces of art. The designs are easy to create because they use simple shapes, color shapers and stamping tools. However, many are also elaborate, taking several layers of paint, so they can be somewhat time consuming.<br />The book starts out with instructions on how choose brushes, mediums, papers and other useful tools. It then explains how to prepare and finish surfaces. It also guides you through basic brushstrokes. Twelve projects follow including objects, fabrics and furniture. Each one includes a materials list and step-by-step instructions accompanied by photos and illustrations. Some of my favorite projects include a Bokhara pattern wall art hanging, a cool jazz candleholder and an English rose round table.<br />My favorite part of the book is the library of over 20 decorative patterns. Again, a materials list and step-by-step instructions guide you thorough each one. A large close-up of the texture is shown along with several small picture swatches of it a various stages. Some textures include the carpet-liner, bubble-wrap, color-wash, and dry brush.	2001-03-18
2065063:US	52918997	R2EIJQ3OUEFMF6	1564967131	747569991	Painting Glass With the Color Shaper	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful quick and easy projects	Creating exquisite pieces of painted glass is surprisingly quick and easy with this book. I was able to create colorful pieces of glass art with very little time and effort. The key to crafting these designs is the use of color shapers, which are brush-like tools with rubber tips in a variety of shapes and sizes.<br />The book starts out with an overview of basic materials and a baking guide. It then concentrates on each color shaper shape and the brushstrokes it makes. Twelve projects follow covering both flat and curved glass shapes. The instructions are step-by-step accompanied by demonstrating photos and a materials list. The projects are simple, yet elegant and include a striped frame, a lustrous candy dish with leaf design, a multicolor flower pattern vase and a millefiori bowl.<br />My only wish is for list of suppliers that would tell you where to find the wide color shapers. It has taken me months to find them. The projects here make great inexpensive decorative accents for your home as well as great gifts for your friends.  This book would also make a super housewarming gift for the crafter in your life.	2001-03-18
2065196:US	52918997	RE9RUNHFTSJ0A	0823054462	242218465	The Trompe L'Oeil Home	Books	5	104	107	N	N	Great projects for every room, good instructions	This is a wonderful book packed with great projects for every room in your house. I have several Trompe L'Oeil books, and this one is filled with fresh ideas that fit a variety of decors and practical situations. It makes creating a special niche in your home easy.<br />The book starts out with advice on materials and tools. It then guides you through planning, perspective, surface preparation, and the basic techniques you will be using. Over 25 projects follow, with each including a materials list, detailed step-by-step instructions, color photos, and helpful tips to guide you. Templates are provided for many of the projects, but not all of them. The designs include a ship's wheel mirror frame, a window with a view, wood paneling, cute monkey, lemon tree, sky ceiling, secret garden, bunny box, and fabric-draped walls.<br />A nice list of suppliers, including phone numbers and Web sites, is located in the back. I recommend this book for all levels. However, I do think some painting experience would be helpful. You should definitely practice on paper before trying to paint on a wall.	2001-03-18
2109104:US	52918997	R19THEY9U7RJQX	1574327003	709317217	Transforming Fabric: Color on Fabric and Life	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Most complete guide on coloring &amp; decorating fabric	This is the most complete guide I have found on coloring &amp; decorating all types of fabric. It is in full-color &amp; packed with many detailed examples. The book starts out with a general history &amp; information on fabrics.<br />Step-by-step instructions then take you though a wide variety of techniques, including painting, dyeing, printing and stamping. Choice of fabric, preparation and colorant recipes precede the various techniques.<br />There are lots of fresh ideas that I have not seen in other books like coloring a black &amp; white pattern and etching fabric.  Many others include compression dyeing, heat transfer, wax patterning, silk painting &amp; nature printing.<br />I found the work in this book to be very creative and a great source of ideas and inspiration. I especially enjoyed those that use patterns from nature. The extensive resource list is a great bonus.	2001-02-09
2158184:US	52918997	R2086FIBQRSMSK	1564967107	436194846	Making Crafts With Handmade Paper	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lots of unqiue &amp; inspirational projects	I own tons of paper books and this now one of my very favorites. It has many unique and inspirational projects including several styles of invitations, books, baskets, furniture and decorative accents. The instructions are easy-to-follow and step-by-step and including photographic illustrations to guide you.<br />My favorite project is the Chinese slippers made of cardboard. They can be worn once or twice or just used as decoration. I also liked the Egyptian style lampshade made of papyrus and the beautiful wall tiles that can be easily removed and replaced to suit your mood.<br />If you love paper and don't quite know what to do with it, this makes a great gift for a friend or yourself.	2000-12-31
2348505:US	52918997	R37K0J2TTU2IZ3	1570761590	135575498	Classic Mosaic: Designs & Projects Inspired by 6,000 Years of Mosaic Art	Books	5	122	124	N	N	Most sophisticated desings I have found	I own a few different mosaic books and I like this one the best. I found the designs presented to be more sophisticated than in other books. I was also glad that this book gives you a list of the exact materials used,  instead of just expecting you to use found materials. Truly inspirational  artwork and examples in full-color are featured throughout the book.<br />The book starts out with a great history lesson on mosaics that spans  about 25 pages. Next, materials, tools, and design are covered. I was  impressed that this included photos of each tool. The basic techniques you  will use to make the projects including cutting and laying mosaics both  directly and indirectly. Finishing methods such as grouting, sealing and  framing are also discussed.<br />Sixteen projects follow. Each includes basic  step-by-step instructions with photos. A large photo of the finished piece  is also included. My favorite project was the straight back art nouveau  chair. I also loved the brightly colored three-dimensional lizard wall  hanging, a tabletop with grape and wine design, a Byzantine style tree of  knowledge panel and a beautiful Aztec pot.<br />I really appreciated the  lists of suppliers and places such as museums and theaters, arranged by  style, to go for ideas. I have had a hard time finding materials in the  past. My only wish is that it provided templates for some of the designs.  This is the best how-to book I have found for someone that actually wants  to make quality mosaics.	2000-07-28
2348809:US	52918997	R2J90Q0KW9HNXT	1581820232	927609151	Wild Strawberries and Cream	Books	5	7	9	N	N	120 yummy recipes	This must have book for anyone who loves strawberries. The book features delicious recipes including breakfasts, main courses, salads, desserts, frozen desserts, beverages, and jellies all made with strawberries. There  are two sections filled with over 30 full-color photos of some of the  recipes. Thankfully, the recipes use common ingredients and are fairly easy  to make.<br />It's really hard to choose a favorite recipe. I love the  breakfast puff, coffee cake and pizza (a pastry crust topped with  strawberries and jelly and served chilled). The chicken fillet with  strawberry peppercorn cream sauce and strawberry avocado salad mold are  also divine. You must try jubilee, meringue, angel cake, and frozen white  chocolate mousse cake with strawberries.<br />With over 120 decadent  strawberry recipes, I promise you will never get bored.	2000-07-28
2349042:US	52918997	R198BPF87NTN8H	0811825108	678819465	Restoration Recipes: Techniques for Repairing and Refinishing Fine Furniture	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Lot's of pratical information, Excellent Value	This book is an excellent value. It is packed with useful techniques for restoring just about any kind of furniture. The entire book is in full-color. Each project and technique includes a material and equipment  list as well as clear step-by-step instructions accompanied by small  photos.<br />The book starts out with tips on where to purchase furniture and  what to look for when you do. Then it gives you the basics of getting  started including tools, finishing, cleaning, stripping, and treating  infestation or wood rot. It also has a wonderful section on understanding  wood with a nice chart on 15 wood types, their use, advantages and  disadvantages.<br />Consolidation of furniture including deciding what parts  to keep, dismantling a piece or simply making the furniture joints stronger  follows. Consolidation sections specific to chairs, tables, and a chest of  drawers provide useful details. They teach things like replacing a broken  chair stretcher bar, evening chair legs, mending major cracks, replacing a  table chassis, carving a new leg for a tripod table or repairing worn  drawer slides.  There are two additional sections on metal fittings and  upholstery. Molding a backplate, antiquing new metal fittings and replacing  a double stuffed seat are just a few of the techniques taught here.<br />The  next section focuses on repairing and beautifying surfaces. This includes a  great guide to solving common problems like white water marks, dents and  scorch marks. Veneer repairs such fixing blisters and removing an old  veneer and reusing it as are also covered. It then goes on to demonstrate  several surface effects including French polishing, working with gesso,  gilding, aging paint, staining, graining, marbling and waxing.<br />The last  section includes 12 projects that use the techniques previously covered. In  one project, clients need a sixth chair. They find one with a matching back  but must replace the entire seating structure and reupholster it. In  another project an empire-style night table needs its brass fitting  replaced and its tambour door dismantled and refitted. It also needs new  stain, French polish and wax.<br />The information here will enable you to  take on some tough challenges with satisfying professional results as you  restore or enhance fine furniture. To help with any project there is a nice  list of suppliers in the back.n  another project an empire-style night table needs its brass fitting  replaced and its tambour door dismantled and refitted. It also needs new  stain, French polish and wax. <br />The information here will enable you to  take on some tough challenges with satisfying professional results as you  restore or enhance fine furniture. To help with any project there is a nice  list of suppliers in the back.	2000-07-28
2349056:US	52918997	R2JJX0F0N4ZLF9	081182814X	914789728	Handmade Style: Japan	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Great projects, many differnt crafts	I love Asian design have been waiting a long time for a book like this to come out. The book is in full-color and there are step-by-step instructions, accompanied by photos, for each project. The 20 projects for  a wide variety of decorative and useful items in Japanese style use  materials including fabric, bamboo, cane, reed, paper, wood, and stone.  Conveniently there are templates and a resource list in back.<br />A few  projects require basic sewing skills and a sewing machine. These include  elegant sashiko table mats, a bolster cushion, an appliqued curtain, raffia  footstool and a floor cushion. Others require basic woodworking skills and  power tools such as a miter saw, tenon saw or router. Some of these include  a reed screen, peaceful water garden, wooden bath mat, exquisite lacquered  tea tray, towel rail and soap dish.<br />Some simpler projects that don't  require any special tools or skills include a paper and rattan tray, woven  cane lamp, momigami lamp, a beautiful paneled paper hanging, tall vases,  paper mache bowls, concrete candle holder, and a shoe rack. My favorite  project was the bamboo table with a glass top. These are great accessories  for any home that features Asian accents or design and would be great  finishing touches for a house done in traditional Japanese style.	2000-07-28
2349190:US	52918997	R3HQOYXFJM4TTJ	0811825671	584910397	Handmade Style: Mexico: Simple Projects and Inspiration for the Home	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great variety of projects	This book takes me back to the time I spent in Mexico a few years ago. It features a variety of decorative home accessory projects for people with different skills from sewing to woodworking. I love the vibrant colors and  variety of designs offered here. The book is in full-color and there are  step-by-step instructions, accompanied by photos, for each of the 20  projects. Conveniently there are templates and a resource list in  back.<br />Some of my favorite projects include brightly colored circular  woven table mats, a copper wire fruit basket, a decorative hot chocolate  whisk, cactus pots, a tin wall border, beautiful cut paper candles, an  Aztec floor runner and a mosaic heart and spiral pattern table top.<br />Three projects requiring basic sewing skills and a sewing machine are a  cross-stitch table cloth (cross-stitches are painted), appliqued bath  towels and drawn-thread curtain. Two others including pillowcases decorated  with roses and a butterfly blanket require basic embroidery skill. If you  wish to make a lime waxed shelf or a beautiful suede covered stool you will  also need basic woodworking skills and power tools such as a jigsaw and an  electric drill.<br />These projects require a little time and effort but none  of them are too difficult and the instructions are great. They will make  some spectacular and unique accent pieces for your home.	2000-07-28
2349193:US	52918997	R31KDS9AVYC45E	1580110673	544428283	Drywall: Pro Tips for Hanging & Finishing	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Wonderful, very thorough	As someone who has had a little rudimentary drywall experience I found this book to be an excellent and thorough treatment of what is possible and how to do it. The illustrations are great, including photographs,  structural drawings and drawings of workers in action. These drawings are  especially well done and show you how to hold and use tools most  efficiently in step-by-step procedures.<br />As you would expect, the book  begins with tools and materials. The basic hand tools are described along  with sophisticated professional equipment for drywall handling. Ways to  efficiently and safely handle large sheets are shown. Drywall comes in a  wide variety of types and sizes that are not &quot;off the shelf&quot;  items at your lumber yard, but can be ordered. Here you will find out when  and why you should use these specialty items that can be very advantageous  in the right situation. Also covered are all the various fastening and  corner treatment options and the advantages of each.<br />There is a detailed  section on preparing walls and ceilings, including framing repairs or  modifications that might be needed. This includes enhancements such as  adding a niche and soundproofing. Preparation for drywalling over masonry  and with steel framing is also covered. Then the techniques of measuring,  cutting and hanging the drywall are presented. Special situations such as  curved or irregular walls, stairways and arches are emphasized. This book  shows you how to handle the difficult applications.<br />Drywall finishing,  troubleshooting and repairs are also covered in detail, including a number  of textured finishes that can be applied directly to the drywall. Many of  these can be done using joint compound and they add an easy but  sophisticated premium touch to your walls. Written with a personal touch,  expert tips throughout and a &quot;can-do&quot; attitude, this is the book  you need to get those walls up safely and securely.	2000-07-28
2349407:US	52918997	R2O6XHZIQNMEMZ	1574321676	344367100	Garage Sale and Flea Market Annual: Cashing in on Today's Lucrative Collectibles Market (Garage Sale and Flea Market Annual, 8th ed)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Wide variety of collectible covered	This book covers a tremendous variety of collectibles and will be very useful for the collector, established or aspiring dealer. If focuses on items made from the 1940's on, those things that most often turn up at  garage sales and flea markets. Certainly the idea behind the book is to  inform you of current price trends so you can spot bargains, whether for  your own collection or resale. The introduction gives some generally  helpful advice on sources and marketing. The impact of the internet is  recognized but there are still many hands-on buying opportunities and the  information here is equally useful in internet shopping. The prices listed  are what are considered to be average dealer retail and do not take into  account the huge premiums that some items have achieved in internet  sales.<br />Thousands of items are listed in nearly 500 pages. The categories  are too numerous to mention in detail but as you would expect, glassware,  pottery and porcelain are extensively covered with many styles and  manufacturers listed. A few highlights are pictured from each category and  the listings are cross-sections of what is available and not intended to be  complete lists of everything ever made. A brief background and sources of  additional information are included for each category. This may include an  expert, collector's club, newsletter or book on the subject.<br />Some of the  other sections I found interesting are advertising character collectibles,  children's books, Beatles &amp; Elvis collectibles, cameras, cookie jars,  dolls, costume jewelry, kitchen items, salt shakers, toys, and yes, even  Barbie dolls and Beanie Babies. Also included are items that are just  attaining collectible status with unknown potential such as calculators and  transistor radios.	2000-07-28
2349434:US	52918997	R2GVWCOF0D0Q5K	0811818489	128492446	Decorative Paint Recipes: A Step-by-Step Guide to Finishing Touches for Your Home	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Wonderful, lots of great ideas	This is a wonderful book with a lot of different projects, techniques and styles. It is great for anyone wanting to add special touches and effects to their home.<br />The book starts out overview of materials including color  photos of all the tools you will need. There is also guide to mixing paints  and a great chart on various materials for painting. There are many  wonderful effects that can be achieved by adding your own pigments or  otherwise modifying standard off the shelf paints. Numerous techniques  follow including colorwashing, dry brushing, rubbing off, sponging,  graining, aging, stippling, combing, stucco, embossing, stenciling,  stamping and creating a few stone finishes. There are also instructions for  painting on glass and using masks or resists such as wax.<br />Over 25  projects are included for walls, floors, windows, furniture and accessories  as well. Some projects include striped Greek vases, checkerboard wall,  slot-machine counter front, and colorwashed flowers, daisy-strewn  floorboards, cork-tile games floor, and a mosaic border. My favorite  projects were the whimsical window frame, fossil tabletop and a beautiful  Japanese style fabric screen. There are also some great design motifs such  as shells, artichokes, and boats. Conveniently, small templates, which you  can enlarge, are included for all the projects.<br />Most of the projects use  latex or acrylic paint, only a few use oils. Step-by-step directions are  given for each of these techniques or projects. Close-up photos show each  technique in a few different colors and recipes are given for each one.  Some of the effects and projects have pictures of finished rooms or objects  done with them.<br />Almost all of the techniques here, and more, are also  covered in Chronicle's companion book, Paint Recipes. What sets this book  apart is that it is project oriented, focusing on the application of the  recipes to the many decorative projects I've described. This is a great  source of technical know how and artistic inspiration.ce of technical know how and artistic inspiration.	2000-07-28
2349837:US	52918997	R1K3OG1HPO207B	1565231082	856707379	50 Easy Weekend Scroll Saw Projects	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Wide variey of patterns	This is an excellent collection of interesting patterns for the beginning to intermediate scroll saw artist. There is a brief introduction that includes tips on wood selection, use of patterns and finishing. There is  also a list of suppliers. Familiarity with the scroll saw process is  assumed and the patterns can be resized on a copier to fit your needs. Many  of the patterns are versatile and can be used for different  applications.<br />Although there are a few of the standard cute animal wall  hangings, shelves and such I found many different and useful ideas here.  There are Chinese character trivets that go with my Oriental themes and a  nice puzzle ball. I think the outstanding piece in the book is a  free-standing plant stand that can be sized as needed. This beautiful item  is shown on the front cover and is a solid piece of furniture that could be  enlarged to be an occasional table with a multitude of uses. A wastepaper  basket and flower pot stand in a similar style are also included.<br />There  are a number of very nice corner and wall shelf patterns with sophisticated  designs including wildlife and a beautiful ballerina. Another of my  favorites is a mirror frame capped with a delicate scroll work pattern.  With all the scroll saw pattern books out there I found this one to have  plenty of unique and useful projects to make it a welcome addition to any  collection.	2000-07-28
2349927:US	52918997	R2BDAIIW3B9FF7	0890879419	436884301	The Art of Henna	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Great for begginers	I have almost every henna and mehndi book published. Though it is not the best book out there, the fact that is comes with a pre-made ready-to-use paste in a tube as well as powder you can mix for yourself is a really nice  feature.<br />The book included gives a nice history of henna including it use  in weddings and medicine as well as its use for hair, perfume and  decoration. Instructions are included for both the pre-made tubes &amp;  powders that must have ingredients added. Though one is included, there are  step-by-step instructions accompanied by b/w illustrations for making your  own cone. It liked it that recipes from different areas like Pakistan and  northern Africa are included. There are also 8 exercises for learning to  draw the designs. The best thing about this book, is that it shows more  designs that are on body parts other than hands and feet than other books.<br />If you really want get serious about doing mehndi and want it to be  darker and last longer you need to get fresher paste and probably won't  want to use any in a pre-made tube. However, this is wonderful for those  just getting started or if you just want to experiment without a lot fuss.	2000-07-28
2349968:US	52918997	R37VWVEKFT3YQ5	0811811735	803215532	Paint Recipes: A Step-by-Step Guide to Colors and Finishes for the Home	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Great Value, makes a great housewarming gift	This is a wonderful book for anyone wanting to decorate or redecorate their home with style. It is great value because it is literally packed with techniques and ideas to suit anyone's taste. Most effects are  surprisingly easy to create.<br />The book starts out with a through  explanation of materials. This includes color photos of all the tools, as  well as charts with great information on mixing and thinning paint types,  primers, undercoats, solvents, glazes, varnishes, sealants, and metallic  finishes. Information about toxicity, uses and whether it should be used  indoors or out is included as well. There are even several excellent charts  on preparing almost any surface for painting.<br />Numerous techniques for  painting walls including colorwashing, sponging, dragging, rag rolling,  stippling, limewashing, dry brushing, fade-away washing, loose-glaze, mock  and rubbed back plaster are included. Effects such as Fresco, Mediterranean  and Egyptian are also covered as well as creating borders, stone blocking  and making distressed plaster patterns.<br />Then wood effects such as aging,  spattering, graining, crackling, combing, and staining are covered. The  Scandinavian and Shaker color pallets and styles are demonstrated here too.  Stone finishes such as marbling, lapis lazuli, sandstone, porphyry, granite  and terracotta follow. Then there are metal finishes including patina,  verdigris, rust, lead, iron and bronzing. Finally, lacquer, tortoiseshell,  shagreen, leather, stenciling, and gilding techniques are shown.<br />Most of  the projects use latex or acrylic paint, only a few use oils. Step-by-step  directions are given for each of these techniques or effects. Close-up  photos show the each style in a few different colors and recipes are given  for each one.  Some styles have pictures of finished rooms or objects done  with them.<br />Since printing accurate colors is tricky and there are so many  variables in materials and surfaces, I know that results can vary. I would  recommend experimenting on a small scale and tweaking the recipe to get  things the color you want. All in all this is fabulous and inspirational  book at an excellent price for anyone who wants to do more than brush on  off-the-shelf paint.ults can vary. I would  recommend experimenting on a small scale and tweaking the recipe to get  things the color you want. All in all this is fabulous and inspirational  book at an excellent price for anyone who wants to do more than brush on  off-the-shelf paint.	2000-07-28
2365373:US	52918997	ROD1T1ED24U1T	0817458891	411323390	Silver Pixels: An Introduction to the Digital Darkroom	Books	4	55	55	N	N	Great for those just getting started in digial photography	This is a great book for those just getting started in digital photography. It gives an overview of effects you can create using programs like Photoshop and Painter. The book is packed with interesting large color  photo examples.<br />First you get an overview of the pros and cons of both  digital and classical photography. Then there is information on choosing  camera equipment, film, a computer, a scanner and a printer as well as  software and other accessories. The author then gives an explanation of  resolution and gives advice on making scanning more efficient and accurate.<br />Many techniques follow. Some of the basics include using contrast,  curves and levels, hue and saturation, toning, channel mixing, sun printing  effects, posterisation, changing colors, and hand coloring. Others focus on  filters or brush techniques such as blur/sharpen, pixelation, distortion,  grain, paint textures and cloning techniques. Compositing as well as using  layers, modes and multiple images is also covered. The author also offers  in insight on color symphony, file types, compression, resolution and  printing digital photos.<br />This is not your typical step-by-step how-to  book. You see concepts illustrated in photos, not page after page of  computer screens. There is plenty of high lever technical advice here  though, but the main goal to explain the logic behind the tools used. If  you understand how they work and when to use them you can utilize them more  effectively. This is the kind of background I have been looking for that is  missing from most of the software manuals. In the back of the book there is  an excellent glossary and a nice list of other helpful books and some  websites.	2000-07-17
2365568:US	52918997	R342XC4WWTWLC6	0916179664	73058340	David Muench's Arizona: Cherish the Land, Walk in Beauty	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautiful photos, wide variey of landscapes	This is a wonderful coffee table book packed with a wide variety of spectacular photos of Arizona. It is a stunning display of the tremendous variety found in Arizona's natural habitat. Muench focuses on different  aspects of the landscape including light, form, life and ecology. Captions  tell where the photograph was taken with some brief commentary. A short  essay by the photographer leads off each section with some of his personal  thoughts and insights.<br />You will find an awesome view looking up through  the trees to the sky, and the beautiful azure color of the Colorado River  contrasting against white and rust colored rocks. Views of waterfalls,  snow-capped mountains, autumn leaves and desert sands will take your breath  away. Natural rock formations and cactus plants are seen in a new light as  they become elegant sculptures. Endless, brilliant blue skies are captured  against fields, mountains and red rock formations. Close-up of photos  vibrant pink cactus flowers and sunny yellow poppies will brighten your  day. You also get an occasional glimpse of lush green trees and plants.<br />As with all of Muench's books this one is printed on quality glossy  paper with the highest of production values doing justice to the  photography. As a Muench fan this is a treasured addition to my library.	2000-07-17
2366372:US	52918997	R1326WB2A4CPHU	0811818993	29352513	Furniture Facelifts: A Step-By-Step Guide	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Wonderful, packed with ideas	This is a wonderful book for anyone looking to revamp old, tired-looking furniture. It is packed with many useful and inspirational ideas. A complete list of materials and equipment, as well as instructions for  preparing the surfaces are given at the start of each project. Step-by-step  directions are then given for each of these techniques or projects. Most of  the projects use latex or acrylic paint, only a few use oils.<br />The book  starts out with advice on preparing surfaces including an informative chart  as well as basic instructions on filling holes, replacing hinges, removing  nails, securing laminate and mending a wobbly chair. It then discusses  tools and materials, including the use of power tools, working with metal,  joining and application of chrome trim or faux leading. There is even a  great chart on varnish and wax mediums giving details such as heat  resistance, water resistance, durability and sheen.<br />Over 15 projects  follow. Many are done in two or three different styles. Each has a photo of  the finished project. There are also a few two-page galleries focusing of  thing like masking, using seashells or decorating with tartan plaids to  help give you ideas. Some of the projects include wardrobe doors with  country curtains, drawers with stenciled vases, a metal trunk with  verdigris finish, and zebra print dining chair. Tabletops are done in many  styles including mosaic, faux lapis lazuli, decoupage, and with stamped  large dots. There is also a no sew cover for an old sofa, a shaker fabric  hanging, nautical banner and fabric canopy for a four-poster bed.  Conveniently, templates of any designs are included in the back.<br />Techniques are also taught. Some of these include wood washing,  high-gloss lacquer, aged paint, crackling, dragging, colorwashing,  spattering, stenciling, decoupage, pattering with a paint roller, fabric  painting, rush dyeing, punched tin, frosted glass and metal effects such as  copper or pewter. Close-up photos show the techniques in a few different  colors and recipes are given for each one. Experience has shown me that  printing accurate colors is tricky and there are so many variables in  materials and surfaces that results can vary greatly. I would recommend  experimenting on a small scale and tweaking the recipes to get the colors  you want.<br />Some of the techniques here are also covered in Chronicle's  companion books, Paint Recipes or Decorative Paint Recipes. What sets this  book apart is that it is focuses more on furniture.hotos show the techniques in a few different  colors and recipes are given for each one. Experience has shown me that  printing accurate colors is tricky and there are so many variables in  materials and surfaces that results can vary greatly. I would recommend  experimenting on a small scale and tweaking the recipes to get the colors  you want. <br />Some of the techniques here are also covered in Chronicle's  companion books, Paint Recipes or Decorative Paint Recipes. What sets this  book apart is that it is focuses more on furniture.	2000-07-17
2366506:US	52918997	R293AQE8IPE3YO	0811816486	812753160	Smoothies: 50 Recipes for High-Energy Refreshment	Books	5	22	25	N	N	delicous recipes	This wonderful book is packed with delicious recipes for blended fruit drinks that are good for you too. It is in full-color with photos of many of the smoothies. Conveniently, complete nutritional information is given,  including fat, protein, fiber, sodium, calcium and much more.<br />The book  starts out with a fruit glossary describing each fruit, its nutritional  value and its health benefits. Other ingredients such as tofu, peanut  butter and milk products as well as additives like bee pollen are also  discussed in detail. Basic information on preparing, selecting and storing  fruit, as well as an overview of essential nutrients are nice bonuses.<br />Recipes are divided in to four sections including wholesome blends,  smoothies without dairy, decadent desserts and those for relaxing or  romantic evenings. Some of my favorites include bad boys with boysenberries  and blueberries, the non-dairy big bold banana, and bloody orange. You must  try the cookies and cream, cherry pop cheesecake, and raspberry cappuccino  dessert smoothies as well. They are simply scrumptious.<br />With so many  wonderful recipes I promise you will never get bored. Check the companion  book, Super Smoothies. It also has delicious recipes and they are all good  for you too.	2000-07-17
2387491:US	52918997	R3DOGV6SYE7GJS	0811820548	133788963	Celtic Symbols: 18 Rubber Stamps	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Makes a wonderful gift	This is a great kit and a wonderful gift for any rubber stamper. It comes with black inkpad glued to the box top, 18 stamps, and a nice booklet that tells a little about Celtic people, their history, &amp; the designs  themselves. The images are not die-cut, but cut square as typical with  plain foam mount stamps. However, unlike other cheaper kits, they are all  ready indexed on a thin sheet of wood. Conveniently, there is a permanent  stamp index on the bottom of the box so you can easily place the stamps  back is their proper place.<br />A variety of stamp designs and sizes are  included. Designs feature mostly knotwork and spirals. The biggest is a  circle about 2&quot; in diameter. There are 4 tiny stamps that measure  about a half-inch. My favorite image 1 1/4&quot; circle with knotwork and  three horses.	2000-07-05
2387515:US	52918997	R3JNQ6G6F2FP70	081182568X	266464292	Handmade Style: Shaker: Simple Projects and Inspiration for the Home	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Tresure Trove of authentic Shaker accents &amp; accessories	This book is a treasure trove of authentic Shaker style accents and accessories you can make for your home. It is in full-color with excellent step-by-step instructions, accompanied by photos, for each of the 20  projects. There are handy templates and a resource list for some of the  more unusual materials in back.<br />Most of the projects will require either  basic sewing, woodworking or metalworking skills. Conveniently all of the  tools and materials needed are listed at the beginning of each one. A few  projects, such a woven hexagonal pattern basket and heart &amp; hand  pattern hooked rug require no special skills or equipment. Basic sewing as  well as a sewing machine are required for projects such as a nine patch  quilt, table runner with stenciled bird, cushion covers, white muslin  pillow cases with simple square design, and both a hand towel and toilet  bag with cross-stitch design.<br />Basic woodworking or metalworking skills  and power tools are used for a tin utensil rack, pie safe, neat looking  tree of life pegboard, candle box, wall clock, tray table, towel rail,  alphabet chalkboard, and a dining bench. With these excellent instructions  and a little time and effort you will be able to craft these sophisticated  high quality items that will become family heirlooms in the Shaker  tradition.	2000-07-05
2401272:US	52918997	R1AK0NL7YGB26A	0811825930	432253169	Well Being: Rejuvenating Recipes for the Body and Soul	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Great recipes, makes a great gift	This is a wonderful book that teaches you how to use essential oils and herbs to cure common ailments. After reading this book and trying some of the recipes I truly believe that by sensibly using aromatherapy, herbalism,  massage and healthy food you can live more naturally and improve your  quality of life.<br />The book starts out with a brief history. Then you find  first aid charts, one for herbs and another for essential oils. The charts  include the name, properties, common uses and any hazards of each item.  Instructions for preparing and using them in teas, infusions, decoctions,  tinctures, ointments, inhalations and vaporization follow. There is also a  great list of carrier and herbal infused oils.<br />Next, there are forty  recipes arranged by seasons focusing of different aspects such as  rejuvenation and sensuality. Spring includes recipes for a delicious pear  elixir and calendula salve. Summer features a natural pleasant smelling  insect repellant, a tea tree oil antiseptic and a citrus body splash.  Autumn includes a wonderful grapefruit exfoliating paste and rosemary  infused massage oil. Winter contains a tasty recipe for garlic soup, a  chamomile face serum and a peppermint thyme inhalation.<br />Association,  education, and resource directories are a nice bonus. I liked that the  resource directory listed places to find herbs and oils as well as bottles  and jars to put them in. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to  pamper themselves. It is packed with information and is easy to follow. It  would also make a great gift.	2000-06-27
2416141:US	52918997	R3ERKFGMN90KUB	0817433104	241483969	The Art of Handpainting Photographs (Amphoto crafts)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Great book	This is a wonderful book for creating your own handpainted photographs. It is in full-color on glossy stock with lots of examples. Materials covered include Marshall oils, colored pencils &amp; spot pens.<br />The book starts  out by discussing how to select a good photograph. Next, choosing the right  film &amp; paper is covered. I found a chart listing various papers along  with their texture, base tone, image tone, contrast &amp; surface very  helpful.<br />The author does a great job explaining color theory &amp; how  to use color appropriately to create a mood. Preparing the photo, basic  coloring methods, &amp; blending colors are then demonstrated.<br />The main  focus in on portrait painting including a step-by-step demonstration &amp;  special tips on coloring hair. Basic landscape coloring is also included. A  resource list in the back in a great bonus.	2000-06-19
2425627:US	52918997	ROJKXXM0NN0Z7	1579900895	694497978	Surface Decoration for Low-Fire Ceramics: Slips, Terra Sigillata, Underglazes, Glazes, Maiolica, Overglaze Enamels, Decals (Lark Ceramic Series)	Books	5	70	74	N	N	Best resource for learning low-fire clay decoration	This is absolutely the best resource for learning low-fire clay decoration. The book is in full-color &amp; is packed beautiful example pieces. The author covers everything you need to know in an easy to  understand manner. Surface decoration techniques include slips, terra  sigillata, underglazes, glazes, maiolica, china paints, decals, &amp;  lusters. Formulas for some of these are included by volume &amp;  percentage. Seven step-by-step projects that demonstrate use of slips,  sgraffito, cutouts, decals, underglazes &amp; maiolica help you to apply  what you have learned. A glossary, cone-firing range chart, &amp; resource  list are a great bonus. Numerous examples of each style are given in  individual galleries throughout the book.  I found them all an inspiration.  Captions for each piece give information on the artist, clay type,  technique &amp; cone.	2000-06-14
2426040:US	52918997	R29BOJ5WW8IUCN	081182523X	476582555	Retro Revamp: Funky Projects from Handbags to Housewares	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Great source of ideas for making cool stuff out of junk	This is a fun book for anyone who fondly remembers wild Sixties style. It is also a valuable source of ideas and techniques for the crafter who enjoys making useful and decorative items from found objects and  junk.<br />There is an introduction on basic techniques followed by 39  projects. There is great variety, including clothing and accessories,  jewelry, furniture, d&eacute;cor items and toys. The materials used are just as  varied and the style is colorful. Depending on your taste you could call it  anything from modern folk art to tacky trash. The beauty of the book is  that even if you don't like the style, many of the ideas could be easily  adapted to other styles by using different materials.<br />For each project  there is a list of exactly what you will need and step-by-step instructions  with diagrams and a color photo of the finished piece. The spiral binding  makes it easy to lay the book flat while you are working. This book is a  great combination of practicality, whimsy and fun.	2000-06-13
2426131:US	52918997	R2HDLVP2Q6XPLT	0811826562	818816735	World of Garden Design: Inspiring Ideas from Around the Globe to Your Backyard	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Beautiful photos from around the world	This wonderful book takes you on a tour of some of the world's most beautiful gardens and shows you how to bring ideas from them home to your own space. It is divided into geographic areas including Italy, Britain,  France, Japan and the tropics. In each section the unique style and methods  of the area are explored in detail with page after page of vibrant color  photos.<br />The adaptation of the garden ideas to the American scene is  presented in the &quot;Bringing it Home&quot; section that is part of each  regional overview. Here we see how the classical principles of each world  region have been applied to a number of noteworthy American gardens. There  is also a more in depth look at one special garden, including a complete  garden plan in the &quot;Garden Tour&quot; part of each &quot;Bringing it  Home&quot; section.<br />I like the organization of this book, the history,  and the personal touch of the many gardeners and designers that it  provides. The book is of excellent quality with outstanding photography. I  recommend it to anyone interested in an overview of the fine gardens of the  world or in finding exciting ideas for their own garden.	2000-06-13
2439258:US	52918997	R39VY0ERM1Q8WS	0811826538	474984043	Pad: The Guide to Ultra-Living	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Great home decor projects &amp; advice, unique interiors	I received this book as a gift and at first glance I wasn't sure it liked it. However, the more I looked at it the more I grew to love it. In fact, it's now one of my favorites.  The d&eacute;cor is imaginative, wild, eclectic and  truly original. It inspires you to look past the traditional and ordinary  to create you own style.<br />There are design ideas for every room of your  home including the living room, bedroom, office, bathroom, patio and  entertainment room. Throughout the book over 20 different homes are shown  and the owners share their design ideas and tastes with the reader. The  homes reflect the owners' own unique personal style. There is an office  decorated with wall-to-ceiling zebra prints, a bathroom featuring walls  covered with cheap toys, and both a bathroom and bedroom come alive with  psychedelic colors. There are a few more moderate rooms like a postmodern  living room and a Moroccan style guest room. If nothing else some of these  room will make you laugh.<br />Even if you hate all the home's d&eacute;cor the book  is worth the price just for the projects. Some of my favorites include a  framed mirror, flame pit, minimalist style disk partition, a flaming  volcano centerpiece and &quot;Cousin It&quot; tissue box cover. There are  lots of lighting projects as well, including a &quot;Hawaiian Eye&quot;  swag lantern, a birdcage lamp and cocktail mug lamp. It also shows you how  to easily make custom curtains without using a sewing machine and create an  inlaid area rug.<br />There is also lots of helpful advice on growing things.  This includes a list with care information of hard to kill indoor plants as  well as advice on growing herbs and vegetables in containers for those that  don't have a yard. A list of what alcoholic beverages to store in your home  bar, advice on how to garnish and variety of punch mix recipes are also  included. There is even advice on picking party music and transforming an  ugly room into something wonderful and affordable.<br />As a bonus you get an  excellent resource list including most major flea markets in almost every  state across the U.S. A warning for those who are sensitive, there are a  few sexual pictures and words in this book.  If you looking for a book with  unique decorating ideas, great home d&eacute;cor projects and great advice on  everything from choosing carpet to making drinks this is the book to get.e. <br />As a bonus you get an  excellent resource list including most major flea markets in almost every  state across the U.S. A warning for those who are sensitive, there are a  few sexual pictures and words in this book.  If you looking for a book with  unique decorating ideas, great home dcor projects and great advice on  everything from choosing carpet to making drinks this is the book to get.	2000-06-06
2439364:US	52918997	R27HSBHU8J86E9	1580110746	523872899	Complete Guide to Water Gardens: Ponds, Fountains, Waterfalls, Streams	Books	5	152	154	N	N	Best book I have seen on water gardens	This is the best book I have seen on water gardens. It covers every step  of the process from planning and construction through landscaping to  stocking with fish and even maintenance.<br />Many options are presented as  far as size style and building methods for ponds, fountains, waterfalls,  and streams. Fully illustrated with color photos and diagrams this is above  all a great &quot;how to do it&quot; book.<br />There is extensive coverage  on choosing and caring for fish and other wildlife. A large encyclopedia of  foliage including floating plants, marginals, ferns, shrubs and trees is  also included. A photo, physical description, zones it will tolerate, &amp;  often some advice is given for each. Tons of landscaping enhancements are  also suggested.<br />There is history of water gardening and plenty of photos  of beautiful finished gardens to give you ideas as well. I can't emphasize  too strongly through how important this hands-on book is for someone who  want to create a water garden of their own.	2000-06-06
2439415:US	52918997	R2MNOW6H72GNKE	1853918709	863818534	The Ultimate Book of Doing Up Old Junk	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Wonderful technqiues to spruce up your trash &amp; make it great	If you have ever dreamed of tuning trash into treasure this book will show you just how to do it. A wide variety of creative effects will help you transform many useful and exciting pieces for your home.<br />Using old, cheap  or run down furniture and decorative items as raw materials, the basics of  repair and finish stripping are shown. Then the fun begins with refinishing  techniques including painting, decoupage, stenciling, mosaic &amp;  gilding.<br />Many variations on the techniques are thoroughly described and  illustrated. Over 50 step by step projects include a wide range of items  and materials that will provide inspiration for whatever piece you are  working on.<br />The book is fully illustrated with clear close up color  photos. A series of templates for stenciling is a nice bonus. This book  will be a valuable source of ideas for many years to come.	2000-06-06
2440513:US	52918997	R213LDOJFJL7S1	081182540X	617295718	Super Smoothies: 50 Recipes for Health and Energy	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Delicious recipes that are good for you too	This wonderful book is packed with delicious recipes that are good for you too. The book starts out with 10 tips to make your smoothie it's best. Then fruit and vegetable glossaries describe each fruit, its nutritional value  and its health benefits. There is also a thorough explanation on fruit and  vegetable preparation. Other ingredients used such as peanut butter and  milk products as well as additives like wheat grass are also discussed in  detail. A seasonal fruit chart and a brief overview of essential nutrients  are nice bonuses<br />There are recipes for almost anything including energy,  weight control, PMS, hot flashes, morning sickness, anemia, libido, bone  building, stress and even some that boost your immune system when you get  sick. There are also special sections for kids and men. Conveniently, each  recipe contains complete nutritional information.<br />My favorite recipes  are the constants craving, grape escape and protein jolt. I highly  recommend this book to anyone who wants to make quick, easy, nutritious  meals without cooking.	2000-06-06
2440714:US	52918997	R3263ZB291X3K9	0811826201	648233268	Sandcastles: Great Projects: From Mermaids to Monuments	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Wide variety of great projects	This is a wonderful book for all ages. It is packed with creative and inspirational artwork, useful tips, and great techniques for making the sandcastle of your dreams. I really like that the book is spiral bond and  the pages are laminated. This makes it easy to take it to the beach with  you, without destroying the book in the process.<br />The book starts out  describing various construction methods, some accompanied by small photos.  Then there are instructions for using and caring for your building tools.  Conveniently, there is also a recipe for making a permanent waterproof  castle. I think this is worth the price of the book alone if you're  interested in making everlasting sand art sculptures and it is also great  for those who don't have access to a beach.  Instructions for creating  over 25 different sandcastles follow. These encompass a wide variety of  animals, architecture and transportation vehicles. They vary in difficulty  from an easier two-hour long grass hut to the magnificent and possibly  all-day long project such as the medieval style castle with dragon show on  the cover. Some of my favorite projects include a cornucopia, an Inca house  and a rocket ship.<br />Though a complete materials list and clear written  instructions are included, in most cases there are no step-by-step building  illustrations. However, almost all include a nice photo of the fished  piece. At such a reasonable price, it makes a great inexpensive gift for  any beach lover or older child.	2000-06-06
2440829:US	52918997	RC1VOL3AUAFMW	0811807886	454143095	The Art and Craft of Paper	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A wide variety of techniques, great gift	This is a wonderful book that teaches you the essentials of papermaking, decorating paper, marbling, papier mache and bookbinding. The step-by-step instructions accompanied by simple illustrations for each technique or  project are easy to follow.<br />The book starts out with a brief history of  papermaking. It then teaches you how to make a mold and deckle as well as a  paper press. Making pulp from both recycled papers and plants; forming  sheets and then drying the paper is then demonstrated.  There is a great  two-page layout showing the results of using 12 different plants.<br />A  variety of techniques for decorating the paper are then covered. Some  include fluting, piercing, impressing, weaving, making patterns, using a  resist and block printing. Marbling both with and without sizing is also  covered.<br />My favorite section uses the decorated papers for  three-dimensional art. It covers various papier mache methods as well as  how to cover objects such as boxes, tabletops and trays.  It also shows you  how to make lampshades, window shades/blinds, privacy screens, jewelry,  frames, cards, purses and folders.<br />The last section demonstrates  bookbinding techniques for single section, multi-section, soft and  hardcover books. I have done quite a bit of bookbinding and I felt the  instruction here was somewhat lacking and hard to follow.<br />A glossary,  index, small list of suppliers and bibliography of books that cover each  one of the crafts more in depth is very useful. Overall this book is great  for anyone seeking to learn the basics of a variety of paper arts without  having to buy a bunch of books. It also makes a great gift.	2000-06-06
2440918:US	52918997	R37YDKCLOB70ZA	081180805X	419602574	The Art and Craft of Papier Mache	Books	5	58	60	N	N	Everything you need to know about papier mache	This is a wonderful book that teaches you everything you need to know about making papier mache objects. Throughout the book you find many full-color photos of beautiful and unique artwork.<br />The book starts out  with a brief history of papier mache as well as discussion of modern folk  art practices. Then equipment and supplies, including choosing a mold, are  covered. Several techniques including pulp making, covering a mold, using a  wire armature, forming a plaster mold, creating a lino print, using a gesso  base and adding a rim, handle or spout are explained. Instructions are  step-by-step and include simple illustrations.<br />The techniques are then  used in the projects. The projects include a box with lid, frame, plaque,  bangle bracelet, hat, carnival mask, doll and figure. The projects are not  &quot;do exactly as I do&quot;. There are no templates and such. They  simply give you basics of construction and allow you to add your own  personality and creativity to the artwork.<br />Conveniently, there is a  glossary and index as well as a list of addresses for all of the artists  (most are British) in the back. If you are looking for great easy-to-follow  instructions and lots inspiration this is the book for you.	2000-06-06
2441086:US	52918997	R1R3PC317Z286T	0811826368	771818823	The Artist's Way Creativity Kit	Books	3	34	34	N	N	Great for calligraphers, but pricey	This would make a good gift for any artist or anyone who enjoys writing down their thoughts. The inspirational quotes in the journal are also excellent for calligraphers &amp; rubber stampers. It makes a great  companion to the Artist's Way book as well. The kit comes enclosed in a box  and includes a journal, 10 incense sticks &amp; 3 stacks of paper disks. It  is all done in Asian style graphics and colors.<br />The disks include  reminders to take time to enjoy the little things in life with quotes like  &quot;Watch airplanes land&quot; or &quot;Take a garden tour.&quot;  Quotes  such as &quot;Decorate your mailbox&quot; or &quot;Make a painting on an  old window&quot; inspire you to create things. Others, such as &quot;Borrow  a friends coat for a day&quot; or Wear a disguise to the grocery  store&quot; were a little strange and even funny.<br />The journal has  wonderful quotes and though provoking questions on each page. It encourages  you to write down your thoughts about them in the journal to help be more  creative &amp; gain inner spirituality. Questions such as &quot;Do you  allow joy for the sake of joy?&quot; or &quot;What tiny change can you make  for the better today?&quot; help you focus on what's really important in  life. Quotes like &quot;A mind too active is no mind at all&quot; and  &quot;Imagination is more important than knowledge&quot; really force you  to think about how you live your life.  Though I received this as gift and  did enjoy it, I do think it was a bit overpriced for the content.	2000-06-06
2441118:US	52918997	R2UIP36SIT8HF0	0811808068	69324424	The Art and Craft of Collage	Books	5	71	71	N	N	A collage book with fresh ideas	I own several books on collage and I found this one to be completely different from the rest. Rather than step-by-step projects it focuses on explaining a wide variety of techniques you can use in your artwork. There  are lots of new ideas here that are not discussed in the other collage  books.<br />The book starts out a brief history of collage and an overview of  art styles such cubism and pop art. Then various collage assembly methods  and approaches are discussed. Some include using different adhesives,  varnishes and paints. There are some great tips on three-dimensional  construction.<br />Many mechanical methods that use computers and copiers are  next. Some techniques include blurring, distorting and altering the color  of images. This is great for those unfamiliar with computers who would like  to use them to make fantastic pieces of art.<br />My favorite section focuses  on manipulating photographs. It starts out with basic information on  cameras &amp; films. Then it a reviews photographic editing techniques  including bleaching, toning, lith-printing, film sandwiching, creating  multiple exposures, making photograms and using liquid light to transfer  your image to a variety of surfaces.<br />There are also many inspiring  full-color artwork examples throughout the book. I found the artwork here  to have a different tone than the other collage books I own. You won't find  lots of flowers of butterflies here. It tends to be more eclectic or modern  than pretty.  The accompanying captions in combination with a listing in  the back tell the title, size and artist's name as well a bit about the  piece and how it was made. Each of the artist's (most are British)  addresses are listed as well. A glossary, index and a small list of  suppliers are also included. If you are looking for some fresh ideas and  new techniques to use in your next collage, this is the book for you.	2000-06-06
2500134:US	52918997	R1ZDKI3404M989	0873415477	654430974	Pages: Innovative Book Making Techniques	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good beginner's book, easy to follow	This is a wonderful beginner's book for anyone who wants to start making &amp; decorating their own books or albums. The projects are simple &amp; the instructions are easy to follow. The type is large and all  illustrations are in full color.<br />The book starts out with a brief history  of bookmaking. It then covers basic parts of a book. Papers, brushes and  other material are then discussed in detail. A section on book themes helps  focus your goals.<br />Actual book construction is next. You learn to build a  scroll, photo album, portfolio and a wide variety of folded books. Making a  bound book with many different binding pattern options is also  demonstrated.<br />Finally, many creative paper enhancing techniques are  shown. Some include stamping, embossing, spraying, sewing &amp; marbling.  Several templates, a resource directory and an artists showcase are nice  bonuses.	2000-05-02
2500136:US	52918997	R2MOJAR2RCV6J3	1859604412	828909135	Rolls-Royce and Bentley: The history of the cars	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Well presented, concise, imformative, &amp; readable	While not the largest reference on Rolls-Royce &amp; Bentley, this book is one of the most pleasurable I've read on the subject. It is very well presented, concise, informative and readable.<br />Beginning with the first  Royce cars of 1904, the book continues chronologically through the 1996  models. I most enjoyed the sections on the Silver Ghost &amp; those on the  later models which are given equal coverage with the popular middle year  cars.<br />The numerous illustrations are very well selected. Especially nice  are chassis line drawings for most models and many good interior photos.  The color photo gallery in the center is beautiful.<br />Another useful  feature is a technical specification chart, including chassis numbers, for  each series. If you would like to invest in just one book to tell the story  of Rolls-Royce &amp; Bentley, this would be an excellent choice.	2000-05-02
2500164:US	52918997	RKOFDOCLNWP3L	0890243670	556541510	Bead Art	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Spectacular, Inspirational	This is a truly spectacular book. The artwork ranges from the elegantly beautiful to the bizarre &amp; quite humorous. All the photographs are in vibrant full-color &amp; are printed on glossy stock.  The book starts out with a brief history of beads. Each item is described with details on how  it was made. Background information on the artists is also included.<br />One  of my favorite pieces is a sampler of 9 tiny toys made of seed beads. I  feel in the love with the many gorgeous decorated dress forms, jewelry  &amp; masks. The beaded beads &amp; eggs are adorable.<br />There is nude  woman sitting on a cow &amp; eating a banana. In another a green woman  lifts weights. I had to laugh when I saw a doll standing doll on her head  and an old lady with a funky perm.	2000-05-02
2500172:US	52918997	RTER1E5IYVNL0	0890240442	240809109	How to Build Miniature Furniture and Room Settings	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Great for everyone, stunning fishined products	This is a fantastic book for the craftsman of miniature furniture and room settings. Suitable for the beginner or experienced modeler, the instructions here lead to stunning finished products.<br />Specialized tools  and techniques for working in miniature are covered. The sections on  building, modifying and enhancing furniture kits maximizes their  usefulness.<br />More elaborate projects scratch built from patterns follow.  These include tables, a large breakfront, and an upholstered chair and  settee group.<br />Room construction and detailing ideas include floors,  walls, ceilings, windows and wiring for dazzling lighting effects. The book  concludes with a useful list of sources.	2000-05-02
2500216:US	52918997	R21YIA97G20HP3	1886947260	417466138	St. Andrews & The Open Championship: The Official History	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Good photos, great historical data	This is a fabulous and lavish book on the world's most fabled golf course and the great champions who have played it. The historical data is supported by a wealth of unique old photographs.<br />Organized with chapters  for each year the British Open has been held at St. Andrews, the book takes  the reader through a flowing history of the game itself. It is a  celebration of the rich history of golf.<br />A highlight is a section of new  color photos of each of the 18 holes, brilliantly capturing the feel of the  course. The perils of each hole are described in the captions.<br />For fans  of the greats of the game there is extensive coverage with photos of Bobby  Jones, Palmer, Nicklaus, Player, Lema, Watson and many others. Historical  accounts bring to life the greats of past generations as well.	2000-05-02
2500224:US	52918997	RB078XLID3MML	0823005046	593177598	The Big Book of Painting Nature in Pastel	Books	5	59	59	N	N	Great reference book, 72 lessons, excellent instruction	This is a great reference book for anyone interested in pastel painting. It has really helped me improve my pastel skills.  It covers materials, color and techniques for every kind of nature subject.<br />Included are 72  different lessons. Each lesson covers a different topic. Some include  handling a detail close up, painting all kinds of water, choosing a focal  point, describing diverse textures, &amp; underpainting.<br />Each lesson  contains a color photograph &amp; the artwork in various stages along with  written step by step instructions. Some of the artwork subjects include  clouds, sunsets, frozen landscapes, desert vistas, &amp; autumn scenes.<br />Many animals covered include an elk, a swan, a monarch butterfly, &amp;  a robin's nest. Moreover, some plants studied include sunflowers, junipers,  many trees, &amp; cactus. Mountains, fields, rocks, &amp; a cabin are  covered as well.	2000-05-02
2500245:US	52918997	R1HYHXT4AOO8WR	085177668X	818348352	FIRST ATLANTIC LINERS: Seamanship in the Age of Paddlewheel, Sail and Screw	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Fascinating story of 19th cen ships, great photo &amp; drawings	This book deals with the development of steam powered ocean going ships during the Nineteenth Century. It is a scholarly work that draws upon extensive original research to tell this fascinating story.<br />The ships  studied here are paddle wheel steamers that still relied on sails as a  secondary power source. The authors do a wonderful job of combining  technical detail with anecdotal accounts of times aboard these ships.<br />The  main focus is on the seaworthiness of the ships, as the new propulsion  systems created new problems in handling. In depth examinations of engines,  paddle wheels and sail rigging are supported by many technical  drawings.<br />There are also many great photos &amp; drawings of the ships at  sea and crews in action. This book will appeal to both the student of  maritime technology as well as the lover of seafaring lore.	2000-05-02
2500248:US	52918997	R3U91I2P460LT1	076430383X	389732455	Designs for Garden Paths: 150 Designs for Walkways, Terraces and Steps (Schiffer Design Book)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Inspirational &amp; beautiful garden path ideas	This book is about the role of paving in adding beauty and functionality to the garden. The multitude of materials and patterns presented should yield something easily adaptable to each reader's own situation.<br />Many of  the examples shown are in large formal gardens, but the ideas are viable on  a smaller scale as well. There are also a number of projects for smaller  patios and walkways.<br />Materials used include stone, concrete, brick,  terracotta, wood and loose aggregates. Design, installation and the  construction of steps are covered.<br />This book is a visual delight for the  color photos of beautiful gardens incorporating paved features on every  page. These are an inspiration to any gardener.	2000-05-02
2500284:US	52918997	R2QYWW907RT5JX	156477144X	661829452	Quilted Landscapes: Machine-Embellished Fabric Images	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Impressive &amp; inspirational quilts, beautiful	This is wonderful book for an intermediate to advanced quilter who wants to create impressive landscape quilts that are true works of art.<br />First the basic method is demonstrated in detail including many illustrations. The main technique used to make the quilts is string piecing. Six beautiful  projects follow. Patterns for each are found in the back.<br />The book places  a lot of emphasis on embellishment. Textured yarns, metallic threads, and  fusible web as well as organzas &amp; tuttle overlays help to decorate the  quilts. Fabric painting and pieced applique are also used.<br />As both a  paper crafter and a quilter I also found this book a great inspiration for  making collages. The tips on color &amp; selecting a scene were very  helpful. The large gallery in the middle is worth the price of the book  alone.	2000-05-02
2500303:US	52918997	RD74Z7F2GY2ZP	3908163013	929052903	Sandi Fellman: Open Secret	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A look at the ethereal beauty of flowers	In this exquisite coffee table book Fellman captures the essence &amp; ethereal beauty of flowers. With selective focus there is more feeling than substance. It is as if the flowers have their own secret world that we can  only know part of.<br />A wide variety of flora are presented in 62 sepia  toned prints, including delicate roses, elegant calla lilies, exotic  orchids &amp; magnificent sunflowers. I love her use of soft focus &amp;  the numerous close-ups of petals.<br />These are the most sensual flower  pictures I have seen. The images convey a combination of mystery with  remarkable intimacy as you see extraordinary detail emerging from the  subtle shapes and tones of the background.<br />Each plate is numbered with  several images spread across two-pages. The type of flower &amp; the year  the photo was taken are listed in the back. There is also background  information about Fellman and 2 essays on her work.	2000-05-02
2500332:US	52918997	R2HAPF3I21E2C1	0823025292	133599074	Arteffects	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Wonderful for paper artits, very creative, inspirational	As a rubber stamper &amp; paper arts lover I found this book very useful. It is packed with tons of ideas and numerous color photos inspired me. I would recommend this book to anyone who ever runs out of creative ideas or  needs some inspiration.<br />Included in this book are many techniques for  creating stunning &amp; unique backgrounds in almost every media type.  Ideas include texturing with sand, freezing or microwaving ink, and using a  non-stick spray as a resist.<br />However, this book is not just for  backgrounds. Painting techniques for many mediums are also included.  There  are original and helpful ideas for using pastels, acrylics, oils, inks,  gouache and watercolor.<br />Finally, to my surprise and delight, it also  covered encaustic painting, carving on hardboard &amp; then painting it,  impasto effects and many original ideas for batik type work. Get this book  and use it!	2000-05-02
2500335:US	52918997	R1Y592F05MJD6	0201696517	693799750	The Painter 5 Wow! Book (3rd Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tons of hints, tips &amp; techniques	I loved this book. It contains tons of hints, tips and lots of different techniques. It also has a lot of color reference pictures and artwork. Instructions are clear and easy to follow, but some experience with painter will help a lot. <br />For a smaller book, it covers a lot of ground. It  contains several different traditional art techniques with information on  to make each brush look as realistic as possible by using different  settings. <br />It also has instructions on how to apply scanned paper  textures, color a scratch board, &amp; make hot beveled metal. It covers  create a tide pool, melt text in water, make a cloned mosaic, use light to  add dimension &amp; make draping weave as well.	2000-05-02
2500346:US	52918997	R3ASP87J8K36JR	0879517808	383041530	Countdown to Millennium	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful artwork from book covers, CD's &amp; commisions	This is great sampling of Rodney Matthews fantasy art. It features mostly color artwork but does have some black and white drawings. There is commentary on about half the images.<br />It features his artwork from all  areas including book covers, CD's, movies/TV, prints and commissions.  Most  of the work is fantasy based. Themes include alien landscapes, space, and  mythological creatures.<br />One of my favorite pieces is &quot;The New  Jerusalem,&quot; a beautiful fantasy landscape painted with a rainbow of  soft colors. Another I really like features a castle in the ocean with  dolphin-like creatures in the front.<br />I found his CD covers featuring  numerous exotic creatures fascinating. Finally, I loved his six full-page  images featuring many whimsical creatures from several &quot;Alice in  Wonderland&quot; books.	2000-05-02
2500356:US	52918997	R3NB0GXRIUR7LB	0883630079	58877421	The Art Quilt	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Incredible quitls, great gift	From the moment I set eyes on this book I knew I had to have it. The quilts are totally incredible. The skill of these quiltmakers &amp; the detail they obtain is astonishing. They are true artists. It is a great value.<br />The abstract quilts combine color, pattern &amp; shape so  beautifully it takes your breath away. Surface techniques such as dyeing,  painting, applique &amp; embroidery make these quilts remarkable works of  art.<br />Some of my favorite quilts include a nude pregnant woman &amp; two  quilts depicting Noah &amp; his ark. I enjoyed a few scenes with vases  &amp; another made as a memorial to the artist's parents. I also fell in  love with the many landscape quilts.<br />The text is fascinating, discussing  the history behind quiltmaking &amp; the techniques used to make these  beautiful quilts. The captions are great, explaining the methods used to  make the quilt as well as the artist inspiration.	2000-05-02
2500358:US	52918997	R1PFUFRER9FHZ8	079227377X	195421000	Year of the Tiger	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Wonderful for Tiger lovers	This is a wonderful book for anyone who loves tigers. It is packed with spectacular photos of tigers, most in their natural environment. There are also some pictures of other wildlife &amp; of native peoples.<br />There are pictures of tigers with their cubs, ready to pounce &amp; many close-ups.  Sadly, there are others of tigers in captivity. I loved the pictures of the  white tigers especially a rare one with orange stripes instead of black.<br />If you can tear yourself away from the pictures the text is equally  impressive. The author tells of his adventures in national parks throughout  Asia.<br />He also discusses the plight of tigers &amp; other animals of the  area being killed for there furs or horns and what is being done to protect  them. There is a list of conservationists in the back if you want to help.	2000-05-02
2500444:US	52918997	R3NMOIIH8DMDLR	0300081073	62672406	Discovering the Secrets of Soft-Paste Porcelain at the Saint-Cloud Manufactory,	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Beautiful &amp; Informative	This is a beautiful and most informative book detailing the work of Saint-Cloud, the oldest porcelain manufacturer in Europe. Saint-Cloud was the first company in Europe to be able to mimic the Oriental type of  porcelain.<br />There are 8 essays by different authors on various aspects of  Saint-Cloud. These include the history of European porcelain, design  influences, manufacturing techniques and the workings of the Saint-Cloud  company.<br />Over 130 pages of exquisite color photos display a comprehensive  collection of Saint-Cloud production from about 1700-1760. I especially  enjoyed the objects with molded &amp; hand-applied decoration &amp; the  colorful figurines.<br />Captions give basic information on the pictured items  but the following section presents a very detailed analysis of each piece.  This is a fascinating book to browse and a great resource for the scholar  or collector.	2000-05-02
2500446:US	52918997	R1LV7SU7OKTBDH	0793812844	474955063	The Atlas of Dog Breeds of the World	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Best reference book on dog breeds	This is absolutely the best reference book on dog breeds I have ever seen. It is huge, containing over 900 pages. There is information on every dog breed. Even extinct breeds are included accompanied by drawings.<br />There  is a least one photograph of each dog breed shown in full-color on glossy  stock.  The more popular the breed, the more photos there are of it. Most  are large and several are in full-page format.<br />Information on each breed  includes country of origin, registry, group, colors, height/weight, other  names &amp; coat description. A detailed history &amp; their personality  traits are also included.<br />This is the book to get if you want a great  way to learn about rare &amp; seldom seen breeds. The unusual appearance of  some the dogs is fascinating.	2000-05-02
2500513:US	52918997	RYFYHT0AQ85VH	0866365478	615587511	Creative Lighting: Custom and Decorative Luminaires	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Great idea &amp; sourcebook for commerical designers	This is a great idea &amp; source book for anyone involved in commercial design. Creative lighting solutions from a variety of applications are presented, showcasing both the decorative fixtures and technical lighting  considerations.<br />There are 35 case studies, each with 2-4 pages of  outstanding photos and descriptions of the lighting systems used. These are  broken into categories including restaurants, entertainment spaces, public  spaces and shopping areas.<br />Most examples employ one of a kind custom  designed lighting elements. How these were conceived &amp; integrated into  the overall design is described. Many beautiful fixtures, unique in form  and function, are shown in the detailed photos.<br />Finally some spectacular  designs in lamps, wall &amp; ceiling fixtures using varied and unusual  materials are shown. Contact info. is provided for the architects,  designers, manufacturers and photographers featured in the book.	2000-05-02
2500541:US	52918997	R1ABYRL3FDTC9R	1579900577	729438061	Making Great Lamps: 50 Illuminating Projects, Techniques & Ideas	Books	5	73	79	N	N	Excellent book for learing lamp making, great photos	This is an absolutely wonderful book for any craft enthusiast and would make a great housewarming gift. The book is filled with beautiful color examples. For each project there are clear written instructions, a complete  supply list, &amp; before and after pictures.<br />First it takes you step  by step with both text &amp; photos on how to assemble &amp; wire any lamp.  Then it shows you how to build a lampshade from scratch. Types of light  bulbs and how to pair a shade with a base are discussed.<br />Next, it  explains how to make lamps out of common objects. In this section, one  unusual one is made with tin cans, while another is created with gift  boxes. However, my favorite was made out of a birdcage lined with  paper.<br />How to transform an old, plain lamp into an extraordinary one is  demonstrated. Many techniques including decoupage, beading, wrapping with  plaster &amp; the use of mosaic tiles are shown. My favorite was a ginger  jar with a painted fish.<br />Lastly, making a lamp from scratch is  detailed. My favorites here were a hanging lantern &amp; gourd sconce. I  also loved the fabric canister made of PVC pipe and cloth. The beautiful  gallery, artists list and suppliers list were a great end to the book.	2000-05-02
2500544:US	52918997	RFJHA23FR0C9M	0863696775	915467807	Skin Shows III: The Art of Tattoo (No. 3)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Good for serious fans of tattoo	This is a wonderful book for anyone who appreciates the art of tattoo. The subject matter is much more varied &amp; interesting than that found in newsstand tattoo magazines.<br />There are 128 pages of high quality photos  on heavy stock. These include many close-ups of beautifully &amp;  intricately tattooed people. Also, many tattoo artists from around the  world are shown working.<br />One of the most interesting features of the book  is several pages of old clippings and cartoons. There are some fascinating  and bizarre stories here. Otherwise, there is no text. Sources &amp; tattoo  artists are listed in the back.<br />The book does contain some nudity, but  it is not overwhelming. The emphasis is on the art. The variety here makes  it exciting to turn each page.	2000-05-02
2500560:US	52918997	RT7J42F8AA9G3	0962054372	439453615	Beguiled by the Wild: The Art of Charley Harper	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Great Coffee table book for lovers of animals &amp; modern art	This is a wonderful coffee table book for anyone who loves animals and modern art. In his unusual style, the artist brings animals to life with geometric precision. The more I look at the art, the more I like it.<br />Many types of animals are included. There are lots of birds, as well as  insects, sea life, dogs, and cats. Forest, farm and African animals are  also included. Many of the drawing as well as the anecdotes with them are  quite humorous.<br />Some of my favorites are a raccoon hanging upside down,  two whales hugging, a baby harp seal &amp; one of a blue jay bathing. I  also especially liked &quot;Love on a limb&quot; featuring two monkeys with  their tails entwined.<br />My all time favorite is called &quot;The Wedding  Feast.&quot; It features two praying mantis mating. The caption below it is  quite funny. There is a nice index in the back of the over 125 plates shown  in the book.	2000-05-02
2500575:US	52918997	R3SA55TV2MM7DH	1578050111	334145739	The Great Bear Rainforest: Canada's Forgotten Coast	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A must of bear lovers, intersting facts, great photos	This is a wonderful book for both nature and bear lovers alike. It is packed with beautiful color photos. Many interesting facts about the wildlife &amp; plants of the area are detailed in the captions.<br />The landscape photos feature vibrant wildflowers, ancient forests, &amp;  mountains.  There are also many remarkable pictures of several bear types.  I loved the close-up shot of a bear eating a fish &amp; another of a sprit  bear on a log.<br />Stunning photos of some other animals include a puffin  close-up, a bald eagle mother with baby, &amp; an elephant seal gathering.  If you can tear yourself away from the pictures, the text is equally  impressive.<br />The authors tell of their experiences while exploring the  rainforest. They also discusses the environmental concerns of the area.  Journal entries from the trip are scatted throughout the book.	2000-05-02
2500584:US	52918997	R2Q1WZTFBK6P6V	1555610676	389899505	Sourdough Baking	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Delicious recipes	This is a wonderful book for anyone who likes sourdough bread. The recipes are delicious, but some are time consuming. This book takes you step by step through the process, explaining everything you need to know.<br />It starts out with a brief history lesson. Then an overview of all the  ingredients you'll be using is covered including many flour types. Various  ways to mix, knead &amp; shape the dough are then mentioned.<br />I love how  the book explains how to modify the recipes to suit your taste. Several  different crust glazes &amp; starters are given. I also found the tips  section covering everything from ingredients to leftover bread very  helpful.<br />Recipes include main courses, multi/single grain, fruit &amp;  nut breads. Popovers, pancakes, waffles &amp; a special section on bread  machine breads are also included. You must try the cinnamon-pecan coffee  cake, &amp; the pizzas.	2000-05-02
2500616:US	52918997	R3VXCRIEIMITW8	0891348212	717519341	Making Miniature Flowers With Polymer Clay	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Must-have polymer book, flowers are beautiful &amp; easy to make	This is a must-have book for anyone wanting to learn to make beautiful miniature flowers. It is great book for all levels, even those who have never worked with polymer clay.<br />At first glance I though it would be hard  and very time consuming. I was wrong. I was amazed at how easy it really  was. In less than two hours, I had a very impressive looking rose  bud.<br />The author first covers materials and how to work with polymer clay.  Included templates help you judge size &amp; shape. Each part of every  flower is then explained step by step. Numerous color photos help to guide  you.<br />Flowers covered include roses, dogwood, daisies, cherry blossoms,  pansies, daffodils, and irises. There are a few projects in the back  showing you how to frame the flowers and make jewelry or ornaments out of  them.	2000-05-02
2500617:US	52918997	RA4H8QUVS085V	0395875161	445508380	Topiaries and Espaliers: Plus Other Designs for Shaping Plants (Taylor's Weekend Gardening Guides (Houghton Mifflin))	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Good book for beginners	This is a great beginner's book on how to create topiaries &amp; espaliers. The book is in full color with lots of photos. Instructions are clear and easy to follow. In each section appropriate plant types are  discussed.<br />First, frameless topiaries are described. Designs included are  lollipop, poodle, spiral, &amp; corkscrew trees. The book then shows how to  make empty frame topiaries. Included are circles, hoops and spirals.<br />Then it shows you how to make a moss-filled bunny. Following this method  you can make almost any shape imaginable. Several kinds of espalier shapes,  and how to make them are then show.<br />Finally, knots, mazes, pleaching,  pollarding &amp; coppicing are covered. Proper tools and shaping hedges are  explained as well. Be aware that most plants used are for warmer climates  (zone 6 or above).	2000-05-02
2500627:US	52918997	R3KPWH0UZA5W8I	1574270656	942909731	American Eagles, A History of the United States Air Force	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Beautiful photos. Chronicles history of U.S. Air Force	This large beautiful book chronicles the growth and development of the U.S. Air Force as an organization, from the beginnings of flight to the present. It is much more than an air combat book.<br />The story begins before  there was an Army Air Corps, with a history of flight from the pre-Wright  Bros. era. The progress in aircraft, the men who built &amp; flew them  &amp; the role of air power in military strategy are extensively  covered.<br />The highlights of this book are the hundreds of wonderful color  photos from the U.S. Air Force museum. Close-ups of aircraft, engines,  cockpits and aviation art take great advantage of this unique  resource.<br />Combat is not ignored however, as the Air Force's role in every  major conflict is detailed with many action photos. This is a comprehensive  and complete history of the highest quality.	2000-05-02
2500654:US	52918997	R20A9LL43P8I81	1567994393	74346471	Paper Creations: Easy-To-Make Paperfolding Projects	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wondeful, lots of interesting &amp; unqiue projects	This is a wonderful origami book with lots of interesting &amp; unique projects. It is in full-color on glossy stock. The clear, step-by-step instructions are both illustrated &amp; explained.<br />The first section covers basic origami symbols, folds &amp; bases as well as folding hints  &amp; tips. The projects start out easy and become more complex as the book  progresses. I recommend this book for beginning to advanced folders.<br />Some  projects include a gyroscope, lucky star, jack-in-the-box, bowl, purse  &amp; a box with dividers &amp; a cover. Others include a sparrow, koala,  dog, kissing penguins, flowers, a corsage &amp; a chain of cranes.<br />The  last section covers hanging or making your origami artwork into jewelry.  Paper painting &amp; selection as well as wet folding are also covered. A  resource guide listing stores &amp; origami societies is a great bonus.	2000-05-02
2500718:US	52918997	R3SDX9MSQ82DW4	1564966755	714874600	Making Books by Hand: A Step-by-Step Guide	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Nice photos, good instruction for simple projects	This is a great book for any beginning bookbinder. The entire book features full-color photos with easy to follow, step-by-step instructions for many simple, but beautiful and impressive looking projects.<br />First,  materials and how to use them are covered. There are clear photos of all  the materials.  Then, the author demonstrates how to make corners for 3  different types of paper.<br />Next, instructions are given for making  several accordion books, a pamphlet stitch journal with either a soft or  hard cover, a tied-binding album, &amp; a post album. Two gorgeous box  books, &amp; a scroll are also demonstrated.<br />There is a wonderful  gallery in the back that really helped spark my creativity. Contact  information on all the contributors is also included. A resource list and  other suggested readings are a great bonus.	2000-05-02
2500750:US	52918997	R1UEY1YLWBR9AT	0817245723	219865584	Black Rhinos (The Untamed World)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great for home library, terrific educational gift	This is would be a great addition to any home library or a fascinating educational gift for any child. It is in full-color on glossy stock and packed with photos of these magnificent creatures.<br />Rhinos are pictured grazing, socializing &amp; caring for their young. Others are simply  resting in fields or taking an afternoon bath. One rhino is even shown with  birds on his back.<br />Also included are dozens of facts about rhinos.  Children learn about the rhinos features &amp; classification, as well as  the many different rhino types. How rhinos communicate &amp; care for their  young are also discussed.<br />Food, habitat, &amp; folklore are explained as  well. There is a section in the back on how the  rhinos are vanishing ,  what steps are being taken to prevent them from becoming extinct, and what  can  be done to help.	2000-05-02
2500751:US	52918997	R1ATT0POZNHZMD	0870118641	697306029	Shoji: How to Design, Build, and Install Japanese Screens	Books	5	72	78	N	N	Comprehensive guide to design &amp; construction of shoji	Shoji are the paper paneled wooden lattice screens that are an integral part of traditional Japanese architecture. This book offers comprehensive coverage of the design and construction of Shoji screens.<br />The main focus  is on actually building Shoji. Detailed sections on wood, paper, and tools  prepare the craftsman for the projects. Design, joinery and assembly  instructions follow.<br />The theory and functionality of Shoji in  transmitting light are explained. Examples in Japanese homes as well as  adaptations in Western architecture are shown.<br />There are several small  individual project ideas included to get started. Lists of paper and tool  sources are very helpful.	2000-05-02
2500754:US	52918997	R8ZV610O8FCTB	1887374167	652460310	Making Glass Beads (Beadwork Books)	Books	5	59	59	N	N	Excellent instruction, beatiful photos, must-have	This is a great book for learning all about how to make glass beads. It is packed with beautiful color photos. Each technique is both demonstrated and explained in clear step by step instructions.<br />The author first covers a brief history, then talks about materials, tools and safety. Next, she  explains the basics of making beads. Many variations are then explained,  including making different shapes, raking colors &amp; adding  stripes.<br />More advanced techniques including mixing colors, adding metal,  furrowing &amp; adding surface treatments. She also explains how to make  millefiori canes, cased beads, filigranas, latticinos, hollow beads,  buttons &amp; marbles.<br />There are 3 wonderful appendices in the back  covering jewelry-making basics, the nature of glass and trouble shooting  tips. My only wish for this book was that a list of suppliers was included.	2000-05-02
2500768:US	52918997	R2UELAAAAUDEUN	158017244X	989110027	Making Transparent Soap: The Art Of Crafting, Molding, Scenting & Coloring	Books	5	117	118	N	N	Highly recommended, everything you need to know &amp; more	This is an essential guide for anyone wishing to make transparent soap. The author guides you seamlessly through the complex soap making process with step-by-step instructions color photos &amp; a very helpful troubleshooting section.<br />The book starts out detailing the properties,  advantages &amp; disadvantages of each soap ingredient. Then safety  precautions &amp; equipment selection are outlined, including selecting a  mold.<br />Two methods for making the soap &amp; 8 vegetable-based soap  recipes follow. Conveniently, complete instructions for modifying these  &amp; formulating your own original recipes are included as well. Adding  dyes &amp; fragrances is also discussed. Several essential oil fragrance  formulas are included.<br />I was very impressed that the book included both  instructions &amp; complete plans in for making labor-saving tools  including a square wooden soap mold, an adjustable-wire bar cutter &amp;  drill mixer. The extensive resource list including websites was also  invaluable.	2000-05-02
2500783:US	52918997	R30W8J9QYR5SP2	0809233495	980305338	The Ultimate Pizza : The World's Favorite Pizza Recipes--from Deep Dish to Dessert	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Delicious recipes	This is a wonderful book for anyone who wants to make great pizza at home. The recipes are easy to follow &amp; use ingredients found in any store. The book is in b/w with no pictures.<br />The book starts out with a brief history of pizza and gives an overview of all the ingredients in the  pizzas. The section on dough lists all the ingredients involved &amp; what  they do. Troubleshooting information is also included.<br />There are recipes  for 9 different doughs, 5 different sauces &amp; a few oils. Many styles of  pizza are then given including Mediterranean, Italian, American &amp;  dessert. I really loved the spinach stuffed &amp; deep dish pizzas.<br />The  breakfast pizza is a great change when you get sick of eating cereal &amp;  the sweet ricotta pie with espresso syrup is a must for any coffee lover. A  list of good pizza places to eat both in the US &amp; other countries is a  nice bonus.	2000-05-02
2500793:US	52918997	R3VZTTXYZKUYOV	0823033899	393436538	Oriental Painting Course: "A Structured, Practical Guide to Painting Skills and Techniques Of..."	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Best oriental paiting book, beautiful illustrations	If  I had to recommend one oriental painting book, this would be it. It includes the most information and the clearest explanations. It is also in full-color and has many beautiful illustrations throughout.<br />First, the  book covers materials including how to choose papers, brushes, and inks. I  found the photos of each brush to be very helpful. It then teaches you to  how to hold the brush correctly &amp; make basic Asian characters.<br />There  are wonderful step-by-step demonstrations on painting bamboo, orchids,  wisteria, chysanthemums, plum blossoms &amp; various animals. Also covered  are various landscape elements, water types, buildings, &amp;  figures.<br />The book also covers qi, color, composition, perspective,  mounting your artwork and using seals. Some historical information and a  glossary in the back are great bonuses.	2000-05-02
2500794:US	52918997	R2TJW46CYXNZEQ	0201694190	942803661	Real World Bryce 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great examples, awesome artwork	If you've ever wanted to really understand Bryce and how it works, this is the book for you. It really helped me streamline the process of making cool worlds in Bryce. The color examples &amp; awesome artwork are a nice bonus.  <br />Every feature in covered in great detail, far beyond the scope of the  original Bryce manual.  The author presents advanced features, showing how  to make undersea worlds, rivers, &amp; waterfalls using Bryce &amp;  Photoshop.<br />She devotes over 100 pages to working with texture. Other  chapters cover working with other software, rendering and realistic nature  imagery. There is even a chapter on making alien world scenes. <br />The CD  also has some great examples including rendering tests &amp; tutorial Bryce  files to play with. There are also 100's of spectacular images of different  worlds created by over 80 different artists.	2000-05-02
2500847:US	52918997	R2M1GZ05W9HPOF	1855328836	294359036	Bentley Factory Cars 1919-1931 (Osprey Classic Histories)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Comprehensive history of Bentley co &amp; cars. Focus on racing	This is a most comprehensive history of Bentley, the company and the cars. Unique here are the insights into the inner workings of the company provided by the author's extensive research.<br />The focus is on racing,  which was the lifeblood of Bentley. Business and financial details,  engineering, design and marketing are also extensively covered.<br />The book  is profusely illustrated with original black and white photos, engineering  drawings, blueprints, cutaways and racing scenes. There is also a beautiful  section of color plates.<br />For the Bentley enthusiast this book is an  essential. The organization is superb and the depth of coverage is  excellent. It is a true delight.	2000-05-02
2500863:US	52918997	R2UCB0RROWX15A	1570760608	76402145	The Mosaic Book: Ideas, Projects and Techniques	Books	4	78	79	N	N	Good instructions, great photos	This is a wonderful book for learning to make a wide variety of mosaic tile projects. Clear, step-by-step instructions are both written and demonstrated with full-color photographs.<br />Sixteen projects include tables, frames, jewelry, containers, floors, and walls. There are also  designs for outdoor areas, as well as the kitchen &amp; bath. Numerous  pieces of other magnificent artwork are also displayed throughout the  book.<br />There are over 30 great templates featuring many designs. Some  include flowers, celestial elements, a large angel &amp; a mermaid. There  are several animals including a unicorn, butterfly &amp; dragon as  well.<br />My only wish is that a list of suppliers was included, I found some  of the materials difficult to obtain.	2000-05-02
2500870:US	52918997	R188GSY1G6UI8A	0762402024	172370457	The Encyclopedia of Flower-Painting Techniques (Encyclopedia of Art)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Excellent illustraions &amp; instructions	This book is wonderful, especially for the beginning or intermediate flower painting artist. It has lots of excellent illustrations. It really helped me learn to draw and &quot;paint&quot; a wide variety of flowers.<br />In the beginning chapter it teaches you about choosing a workspace,  tools, &amp; paper. Color  theory, light &amp; shade are also covered.  Various mediums are then discussed including color pencil, acrylics,  watercolor, oil &amp; pastels.<br />It then covers how to care for the  flowers, flower arrangement, and using photos. Next, it discusses the  different shapes of flowers &amp; how to draw them. Many flowers are then  painted step-by-step, shown in various mediums.<br />Finally, the drawing and  painting of leaves and foliage is shown. There is a small, but beautiful  gallery in the back of the book.	2000-05-02
2500947:US	52918997	R2XENEBP88XEMH	188694718X	849996467	Images of the Wild: Photography and Stories	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Best wildlife photography book	I have bought &amp; borrowed many wildlife books and out of all of them this is the best one I have ever seen. The photography is excellent, and the colors are so vibrant they make you fell as if you are watching the  animals live.<br />All kinds of different animals are featured in this  fascinating book. A turtle is shown with a mosquito on its nose and a baby  dear is pictured while it sleeps. A squirrel eats a dandelion stem &amp;  mice gather around an ear of corn.<br />Other images show egrets fighting in  mid air &amp; butterflies resting on a flower. You will even find adorable  baby bears caught climbing a tree. There also is a gorgeous field of  sunflowers &amp; a single elegant water lily floating in a pond.<br />You get  a glimpse at the northern lights &amp; snowcapped mountains against a  brilliant blue sky as well. The index in the back is a great bonus; it  lists each plate, the location it was taken at &amp; the photographic  settings that were used.	2000-05-02
2500949:US	52918997	R1WFG9USGE5JST	1886801363	107572748	The Ray Dream Handbook	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great tips, useful files, nice explination of 3D thinking	This is a great book for learning to use Ray Dream. The tips on modeling, shading and light really helped me use Ray Dream more efficiently. The CD has some great files of all kinds to practice with &amp; some bonus  ArtBeats demos. <br />I appreciated how the book helped me &quot;think&quot;  like Ray Dream. The first chapter explains all about thinking in 3D. More  sections cover the though processes of modeling, lighting, mood, shading,  composition, &amp; animation.<br />The are some wonderful step by step  tutorials on modeling. A few include making rocks, foliage, an easy spiral  staircase, and a gazebo. There are many lighting, camera, animation, and  rendering technique tutorials as well. <br />The are also some nice shader  recipes. Some include rust, marble &amp; glass. I loved how the artist  profiles section took me through the artwork of several artists. Many  striking color photos of the artwork are shown. Later chapters focus on  postproduction, special effects, the internet.	2000-05-02
2500971:US	52918997	R1C45KMN94ZMF3	0893468754	560710919	Origami: Rokoan Style - The Art of Connecting Cranes	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent for intermediate to advance folders	This is wonderful book on the art of folding two or more paper cranes from a single sheet of paper. The results are true works of art. The book is in full-color &amp; shows the completed projects in variety of beautiful papers.<br />Before buying this book you should know how to fold a paper  crane. Although the book refreshes the basics, it is really for the  intermediate to advanced paper folder.<br />Over 25 projects are included,  each becoming progressively more complex. These include circles &amp;  strings of connected cranes made by partially cutting a large sheet of  paper.<br />Paper types &amp; presentation are also discussed briefly. A large  sheet of beautiful patterned washi paper is included. Information is also  included on ordering additional sheets from an array of different patterns.	2000-05-02
2500992:US	52918997	R2Y6L7WVNT2LXY	4878932724	319405972	Naga	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Must-have for erotic &amp; bondage art collectors	This is a MUST HAVE book for erotic or bondage artcollectors. Sorayama's work is simply amazing. His imagination andattention to detail are incredible.<br />There are many very explicitimages. Many pictures contain wild and creative bondage; others have unusual piercings displayed in unique ways. A lot of the piercings are in very intimate places. A few women hold whips.<br />Some of the other subjects include mermaids, women with snakes &amp; other creatures, women in water, ponygirls and women urinating. Though some pictures contain metal work, there is less in this book than previous ones.<br />My only wish for this book is that the pictures were all contained to one page. In my opinion, much of the artwork was somewhat distorted by being spread across two pages.	2000-05-02
2501000:US	52918997	R5AMBMXF4PQAV	1888054050	829007820	Elvgren: His Life & Art	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Most comprehensive collection of Elvgren'w work	This fabulous volume is surely the most comprehensive collection of Gil Elvgren's work ever assembled in book form. It should go far to establish Elvgren, along with Petty and Vargas, as a master of the American pin-up.<br />The biographical information is complete and well written  including Elvgren's personal, commercial and artistic endeavors. The  information on his associations with other pin-up artists of the time is  especially interesting.<br />The importance of Elvgren's models is emphasized,  although he painted from photos rather than the live model. In many cases  the model's photo and finished painting are side by side showing Elvgren's  ability to capture form and expression.<br />The book includes about 200 of  Elvgren's paintings in vibrant full color and covers his advertising work  for Coca-Cola and others as well as his famous calendar pin-ups. It is a  great source for the pin-up fan, or art historian.	2000-05-02
2501004:US	52918997	R2TQPCC5K26I7O	1887374302	640006235	Creative Glass Techniques: Fusing, Painting, Lampwork	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Inspriational artwork, Easy to follow	This is one of the coolest books I have ever found. It is fantastic tool for learning to fuse &amp; paint glass. The projects are truly spectacular &amp; step-by-step instructions along with full color photos make it easy enough for anyone to follow.<br />The first section features 12 fusing  projects. Some include a plate, necklace, bowls, &amp; a modern wall  hanging. The next section includes 17 glass painting projects, some are  used to adorn the previously made projects.<br />You learn decal printing  &amp; stippling techniques as well as how to work with clear adhesive film  &amp; liquid resist. Application of precious metals, crystal ice, paints  &amp; lusters is also covered.<br />The lampwork section is short including  instruction for a planter ornament  &amp; a reshaped wine goblet. Both  projects are simple, but produce stunning results. My only wish was for a  list of suppliers.	2000-05-02
2501018:US	52918997	R2M0OXS83WJJB6	0004133471	350530137	Watercolour Pencils: Everything You Need to Know to Get Started (Collins Learn to Paint Series)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Highly reccomended	I highly recommend this book for learning to use watercolor pencils effectively. The book gives clear, easy-to-follow instructions. As a rubber stamper, I found many of these techniques a very useful addition to my artwork.<br />The book starts out by explaining how watercolor pencils are  different from traditional watercolor. Materials needed are covered next.  Then, making various textures &amp; mixing colors to make them work  together are explained.<br />Many types of subject matter are covered  including vegetables, flowers, landscapes, animals, china, and glass. The  emphasis is on a demonstrating a wide range of techniques in a step-by-step  manner rather than actual projects.<br />There is also information on using  watercolor crayons &amp; combining watercolor pencils with traditional  watercolors. Working on colored paper is discussed as well. This small book  provides a wealth of valuable information.	2000-05-02
2501099:US	52918997	R2QY23RJGX6OGZ	0870118625	125567626	Brush Writing: Calligraphy Techniques for Beginners	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Great for beginning students	This is a good book for beginning students learning to write Kanji and Hiragana. The large format makes it easy to see how to form the character correctly.<br />The instructions are excellent, showing you step-by-step, how  to write each symbol in detail. Though cursive script is shown, it is  smaller and detailed instructions for writing it are not given.<br />Each  character's reading and meaning are shown as well. However, since less than  75 words are covered, it is not intended to teach you to read Japanese.<br />The book also covers materials, techniques, &amp; a brief history of  Asian calligraphy. There is a beautiful calligraphy appreciation section in  the back. It shows some of the characters reflecting their meaning.	2000-05-02
2501108:US	52918997	R1JJX8IL4KL3TA	1558212698	508678125	Brush Lettering: An Instructional Manual Of Western Brush Lettering	Books	5	62	62	N	N	Excellent instruction	This is an excellent book for anyone trying to learn western brush lettering. First, the book discusses in detail how to choose and care for materials including brushes, paper and various media types.<br />For both  flat brush &amp; pointed brush writing, the book shows exactly what the  strokes should look like &amp; how to hold the brush properly. There are  several warm-ups these really helped me prepare to start writing.<br />Some  flat brush alphabets covered included are Roman &amp; Italic Minuscules as  well as Flourished Italic &amp; Roman Capitals. Pointed brush styles  include Pointed-Brush &amp; Copperplate Scripts. Flourishing is also  shown.<br />Both flat &amp; pointed brush styles have sections on adapting  them for other alphabets. In the back, there is a wonderful artist  showcase. All artwork is black &amp; white.	2000-05-02
2501143:US	52918997	R88I2XLJURISP	0789202689	30531202	Painted Bodies: By Forty-Five Chilean Artists	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Must-have coffe table book for body painting lovers	This is a must have coffee table book for anyone even remotely interested in body painting. The book itself is huge and packed with spectacular photographs on glossy paper. There is a 4-page layout in the middle.<br />Each of the 45 artists has done one body painting, then posed the model  in several positions. Both nude females &amp; males, as well as all races  are used. Biographies of all the artists are in the back.<br />It is truly  amazing how imaginative and talented the artists are. One woman in painted  white on the front &amp; black on her back. Asian style characters are  written on both sides in the opposite color.<br />One of my favorites is a  woman with a paitned on corset. Other females have eyes or faces painted on  their chests.  I also fell in love with the golden metallic man &amp;  woman.	2000-05-02
2501150:US	52918997	RNVDACBFY3CR5	0891348115	650520446	Artist's Photo Reference: Flowers	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great book, A must-have reference for any flower artist	If you love to draw or paint flowers you will love this book.  It's really nice reference book for those who don't have a garden with dozens of flowers year round to go pick or photograph when they want to create their  next masterpiece.<br />The book contains over 500 clear quality photos. There  are about 50 different flowers in all. Each is show in several different  perspectives from up close petals, to stems, in large bunches and even  inside the flowers.<br />As a bonus there are five beautiful step-by-step  demonstrations on how to draw the flowers as well. The examples include  Chrysanthemums in acrylic, Dahlias in pastel, Sunflowers &amp; Orchids in  colored pencil &amp; Pansies in watercolor.	2000-05-02
2501167:US	52918997	R2UI4T8I8PIZIJ	1564771563	343919632	The Art of Handmade Paper and Collage: Transforming the Ordinary into the Extraordinary	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Best Collage Book. Great instruction &amp; Many unique projects.	This is the best collage book I have ever read. I love the look of collage, but have always had a hard time getting started. The beautiful artwork and advice here have helped me to create many masterpieces.<br />The  author starts out by taking you step by step though the papermaking  process. Materials used include mostly common household items and scraps.  Making a mold &amp; deckle is also demonstrated.<br />Next, many interesting  surface techniques are covered including wet/dry embossing, glue-gun  embossing, coffee overdyeing, watercolor dyeing, &amp; crayon resist. The  collage section has tips on collecting, sorting, arrangement, &amp;  materials.<br />I loved the many unique projects that followed including  making envelopes, greeting cards, fabric motifs, paper sculptures &amp;  kaleidoscope collages. There are also some templates and a great list of  suppliers in the back	2000-05-02
2501186:US	52918997	R1FR882QEMHIV2	0876545983	624267670	The Kimono Inspiration: Art and Art-To-Wear in America	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Beautiful illustrations	This book is about the American interpretation of the Kimono. It is a beautifully illustrated book that will appeal to anyone interested in fashion design or Japanese culture.<br />The first section shows the Kimono in  American art, including paintings by Whistler and others. A number of old  photos and postcards chronicle the Kimono as a fashion element in the early  20th Century.<br />Next is a beautiful section on Kimonos by American  designers. The variety is stunning with traditional motifs, modern art  designs and unusual materials.<br />There is also a history of the Kimono in  Japan showing the development of style with some nice earlier examples.  This is a wonderful view of the article of clothing that is an art form in  itself.	2000-05-02
2501205:US	52918997	R1J1TWXB782BHC	0895297485	721889639	Secrets of Fat-Free Italian Cooking: Over 200 Low-Fat and Fat-Free, Traditional & Contemporary Recipes --From (Secrets of Fat-free Cooking)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great tasting, easy to make recipes	This is a wonderful book for anyone who likes Italian food, but doesn't want all the fat that is usually in it. It contains great tasting easy recipes that anyone can make, with ingredients found in any grocery  store.<br />The author starts out by discussing low-fat eating &amp; the  ingredients that go into the recipes. Information on products for those  with special diet needs is included. A great resource list for finding  these products is in the back.<br />The recipes cover a wide range of foods  including appetizers, omelets, salads, soups, pizzas, breads, pastas,  sauces, main entrees, &amp; desserts. Polenta, Risotto &amp; Gnocchi are  also covered. Each recipe has nutritional information.<br />Some of my  favorite dishes include the spinach &amp; mushroom calzone, lasagna &amp;  mama mia meatball soup. I recommend using low-fat cheeses instead of  fat-free ones, because they melt better.	2000-05-02
2501208:US	52918997	R1F9A8FBUZK87C	0883638487	210239493	America's Spectacular National Parks	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Breathtaking photos. Info on over 50 different nat parks	This is an absolutely breathtaking book on national parks and a must have for anyone who loves nature. There is information and beautiful photography for over 50 different parks across the United States. <P>The book opens  with a brief history of the development of our national park system. A map  showing where each is located in also included.  About two to four pages  are then devoted to each of the parks.<P>The history and features are then  described along with the spectacular photographs. There are many diverse  landscapes including lush forests, desert vistas, magnificent mountains,  huge glaciers,  pristine lakes, &amp; mysterious caverns. <P>Several 3 page  fold-out panoramas are the highlight of the book. It almost makes you feel  like you're there. I could go though this book a thousand times,  discovering new things each time.	2000-05-02
2501317:US	52918997	R1EB91QRENOA2	0789202336	792934742	New Tattoo	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Must-have for anyone who loves tatoo art	This is a must have book for anyone who loves the art of tattoo. The book features a wide variety of tattoo styles, and many unusual designs. The photography is excellent, so the details of each design can be seen  clearly.<br />Tattoo styles include tribal, fantasy, neo-traditional,  paintings and a wide variety of others. One of my favorites is of a woman  with beautiful butterfly wings covering her entire back.<br />I also enjoyed  several tattoos that were styled after Chinese sumi-e painting. The  beautiful designs include many birds &amp; a large fish with a woman. I  found a circular tribal tattoo on a man's head to be interesting as well.<br />Another of my favorites was a flourished bird on a man's back. At the  end of the book there is a great section on the tattoo process, if you  would like to get one for yourself. A list of other tattoo books &amp;  magazines was also helpful.	2000-05-02
2501320:US	52918997	R1XLUWI4I67EQ0	0737000074	724853688	The Undersea World of Wyland	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Beautiful artwork, thoughful quote, intesting info on artist	This is a wonderful book for anyone who loves dolphins, whales and other sea life. It has lots of beautiful artwork with thoughtful quotes beneath. There is also some interesting information on Wyland.<br />First, there is a  section on whales, followed by one on dolphins, manatees and other sea  life. Next, there are several collaboration pieces. Wyland worked with  artists such as Jim Warren &amp; James Coleman to create many stunning  pieces.<br />I especially liked one with babies &amp; dolphins he worked on  with Janet Stewart. I also loved the section on the whaling wall murals.  The walls are shown both in-progress &amp; finished.<br />I found the  information on each wall and about how the walls came to be fascinating. A  detailed list on of all the walls &amp; their specifications as well as a  list of all the Wyland galleries are a nice bonuses.	2000-05-02
2501333:US	52918997	R1KG1PL25L94S6	038548545X	606177113	99% Fat-Free Italian Cooking: All your favorite dishes with less than one gram of fat	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Delicious recipes	This is a great book for anyone who loves Italian food. The low-fat recipes are delicious, use mostly common ingredients and are easy to make. The only illustrations are a small selection of photos in the middle.<br />The book starts out with a brief description of the ingredients and some  suggested menus.  Fat &amp; calories are listed for each dish. Each recipe  has a sidebar with severing suggestions, recipe variations, or background  on the ingredients.<br />Recipes include appetizers, soups, breads, fresh  pastas, sauces, polenta, salads, pizzas, desserts, and liqueurs. There are  also many main dishes with vegetables, seafood, meat, and poultry.<br />Some  of my favorite dishes include the spinach calzone, lemon risotto and  chicken piccata. My friends loved the ricotta &amp; basil tortellini. The  chocolate and raisin biscotti served with coffee is also divine.	2000-05-02
2501466:US	52918997	R3HNFPDH0DDRCH	1890310034	995845270	Polar Dance: Born of the North Wind	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Essential, wonderful personal story, captivating photos	This is an essential book for polar bear and nature photography lovers alike. There are over 250 photos of polar bears, and arctic wildlife captured in the beautiful frozen world they live in.<br />I found the  photography truly captivating. The adorable bears are shown splashing in  the water, dancing, taking afternoon naps &amp; wandering through the snow.  There is even one of the mother making friends with a sled dog.<br />I was  deeply touched by the many images of the cubs snuggling close to their  mother. I found the other wildlife photos featuring many foxes and birds  equally impressive. The captions for all the images are in the back of the  book.<br />Along with the pictures, there is a wonderful story of a year in  the life of a mother polar bear &amp; her 2 cubs. The author switches  pleasingly between factual accounts of the arctic world, folklore, &amp;  the personal story of the bear family.	2000-05-02
2501475:US	52918997	R318S72L5K7BCI	0804819599	490873949	The Art and Technique of Sumi-e Japanese Ink-Painting: As taught by Ukai Uchiyama	Books	5	69	73	N	N	Excellent instructions, beautiful illustrations	This is an excellent book for any student of Japanese ink painting.  The author's clear instructions focus on technique as well as the spiritual side of sumi-e. The illustrations are exceptionally beautiful &amp; worth the price alone.<br />The book starts out by discussing materials as well as  a student's mindset. Line brush strokes, washes and calligraphy brushwork  are then detailed &amp; illustrated.<br />The author then talks about the  four gentlemen of Japan. They include the orchid, bamboo, plum &amp;  chrysanthemum. Because they are so varied, practicing these has really  helped my paintings improve.<br />Many other subject types are covered. Some  include grass, flowers, trees, fruits, vegetables, birds, and animals.  Landscape element techniques encompass rocks, clouds and mountains.	2000-05-02
2501488:US	52918997	RXZ1DDLQUZA6C	1555610250	691597284	Desert Heart	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Beautiful book about eh Sonoran desert	This is a beautiful book about the landscape and lore of the Sonoran Desert of Arizona and Mexico. It will appeal equally to the student of geology or history.<br />The book is the culmination of the author's 30 years  experience in exploring and studying the region. This was an area of  ancient volcanic activity which shaped the land and left many interesting  features shown here.<br />Hartmann also tells the story of several waves of  explorers and settlers, from the Spanish under Cortes, to the missionaries,  to Twentieth Century American expeditions. Of course, the Indian history of  the area is also covered.<br />Many stunning photos of unusual geologic  formations and gorgeous desert landscapes combine with a captivating story  to make this a fascinating book. It is truly original and one of a kind.	2000-05-02
2501501:US	52918997	R3NWYP2JOGPLH	0823001695	728434414	Airbrush: The Complete Studio Handbook (Bk. 1)	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Excellent book for any airbrush artist	This is an excellent book for any airbrush artist from beginning to advanced. The author does a great job of covering the technical aspects of airbrushing in understandable terms.<br />The book starts out by detailing  all the features of the airbrush, helping you choose which one to buy &amp;  then describing how to clean it. What kind of mediums to use with each type  of paper is then explained in depth.<br />Next, actual use of the airbrush,  including many practice exercises, are given. How to transfer drawings,  construct curves for making masks, and use both color and other painting  techniques is demonstrated.<br />There are not really any step-by-step  projects per se, but there is a section on airbrushing the human face in  both color and in b/w. A beautiful full-color gallery in the back is a nice  bonus.	2000-05-02
2501506:US	52918997	R3UC1N0Y6HOU6Y	088363595X	958850090	Shells	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Beautiful photos, fascinating info	This is a spectacular coffee table book for anyone who' s the least bit interested in shells. It is enormous and packed with breathtaking photos in rich color on glossy stock. The text is as fascinating as the pictures.<br />The book features a wide variety of shells, many I have never seen  before. It has full-page close-ups of individual shells and several shell  collages. It also shows the shells as living creatures in their natural  habitat.<br />Another section has many examples of shells in art including  jewelry and postage stamps. There is a detailed caption for each photo.  Many of these describe the life of the creature as well as the  characteristics of the shell.<br />If you can tear yourself away from the  pictures, the text is equally impressive. It covers evolution, the animals  inside, shell structure and classification. It also includes chapters on  shell collecting and shells in human culture.	2000-05-02
2501566:US	52918997	R1YPP49LN8Y8AC	4878933003	296569964	Torquere	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A must have for bondage &amp; erotica fan, very creative	This book is absolutely fabulous, filled with bondage, erotica and torture of all kinds. Sorayama's ability to capture the erotic essence of a female is astonishing. His attention to detail and creativity left me in awe.<br />The all new artwork is bold, containing very explicit images. Most of  the images are on one page. The pictures are often quite bizarre. Some  themes include piercing, cowgirls, urination, and women in metal or with  medical implements.<br />Sadomasochism is very prevalent and most women are  shown submissive. Many are in very extreme bondage. However, some women are  in leather and hold whips or weapons, playing a more dominant role.<br />My  favorite image is a woman with zebra stripes shown in two positions. Other  favorites include a woman hung inches from a circle of barbed wire, a  bleeding mermaid, a harem girl and an angel with a devil tail.	2000-05-02
2501588:US	52918997	R2P45AQ7R3YW7C	0764532693	814477932	Illustrator 8 Bible	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Basics &amp; features explained, great tips	This book is an essential for getting the most out of this powerful program. The basics are explained simply and thoroughly and the most valuable tips as well as features new to Illustrator 8 are  highlighted.<br />Menus &amp; dialog boxes are illustrated throughout, helping  the user find the right buttons &amp; settings. Well designed output  samples show what is going on with each step, making the transition to the  advanced features a smooth one.<br />Some of the things I found most useful  were detailed information on the use of Photoshop filters in Illustrator  and extensive coverage of third party plug-ins. The chapter on type showed  me some great new ideas.<br />There is a color gallery in the middle of the  book that shows off the fabulous potential of Illustrator 8. Most of this  art is on the CD-ROM included with the book, as are a number of demos &amp;  plug-ins, some are only for the MAC.	2000-05-02
2501647:US	52918997	RZTV8KMSLKTKL	1892041200	675476678	Tom Baril: Botanica	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Exquistie high-quality b/w flower images	I highly recommend this extraordinary coffee table book to anyone who loves flowers. It is packed with 60 exquisite images printed in subtly toned black &amp; white on quality matte finish paper. The large images  show every intricate detail.<br />Baril's images are in a classical style,  using special effects including solarization and toning that only bring out  the natural beauty of the subject. The remarkable detail and unique  composition make each image special.<br />I enjoyed the wide variety of flora  including an exotic passion vine, elegant calla lilies &amp; a magnificent  sunflower. More of my favorites are gladiolas &amp; brugmansia, as well as  hosta ready to burst into bloom.<br />This book is a masterpiece of elegant  simplicity. The photos are printed one to a page on one side only. The only  detail given is the name of the flower. The images speak for themselves and  you can get lost in them for hours.	2000-05-02
2501685:US	52918997	R10CXZNOMRLFUI	1562533185	885175081	SalonOvations' Braids and Updos Made Easy	Books	4	50	51	N	N	Simple enough for anyone to use	This is a wonderful book for anyone who wants to learn to braid hair in a wide variety of styles. It includes information on the basics of working with long hair as well as 20 different braids.<br />Though geared toward  those in the hairstyling industry, it is simple enough for anyone to use.  My husband who has never done any hairstyling was even able to do the  simpler ones in just a few trys.<br />The braids are arranged in order from  easier to hardest. Written directions along with step-by-step illustrations  showing hand positions are included. Each braid section is also shown in  different shaded patterns.<br />Some braid &amp; ponytail styles include  fishtail, rope, Dutch, knotting, twisting, bowtie, overlap updo and many  French styles.	2000-05-02
2501719:US	52918997	R18D2BD4E84QJQ	1886388105	752735546	Moti	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Beautiful, elegant artwork	In a style similar to that of Asian ink paintings Moti elegantly captures the beauty of nature in his artwork. Moti's wonderful paintings, prints, etchings &amp; drawings will draw you into the peaceful &amp; simple world he creates.<br />In Moti's world ships glide across the ocean while the sun  gently slips into the sea and flowers rest delicately in a vase. Trees  stand silently against the blue gray sky or bend their branches to the  blowing winds.<br />Horses prance and tigers prowl ready to pounce their prey.  Owls sit softly on branches or extend their wings &amp; slip into the  night. Siamese cats stand stoically &amp; fish swim by. A child sits  quietly for a portrait.<br />The text is in both in English &amp; French. It  includes biographical information &amp; extensive quotes from Moti himself.  The introduction compares Moti's work with Turner's. There are also several  photographs of Moti working.	2000-05-02
2501762:US	52918997	R2OGDD20DUCASQ	0891345957	409186252	Creating Textures in Pen & Ink With Watercolor	Books	5	94	94	N	N	Wonderful step-by-step instructions, great illustraions	This is a wonderful book for anyone interested in pen &amp; ink drawing. Instead of trying to explain techniques in detailed text, it shows you step by step with color illustrations. It is written for all levels &amp; the  instructions are easy to follow.<br />There is information on types of lines,  value and contrast. A wide variety of techniques are also covered. These  include, dry surface, damp surface, wet on wet, spatter, blotting,  impression, stamping and salt &amp; alcohol.<br />It shows how to draw &amp;  paint metallic objects (gold, silver, iron, rust), baskets, pottery, brick,  stone, marble, granite, textiles, clouds, weather, earth textures, rocks,  wood, trees, leaves, foliage, flowers, fruit, &amp; eggs.<br />Another  section includes instruction on drawing transparent objects such as glass,  eyes and many varieties of water. There is also a section on animals  covering butterflies, animal hair, scales &amp; feathers.	2000-05-02
2501880:US	52918997	R387Y2GRGAOQTM	0891344721	918670211	Sketching Your Favorite Subjects in Pen and Ink	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Excellent, lot's of tips &amp; techniques	This is an excellent book for anyone just starting to learn pen &amp; ink drawing. This is not a step-by-step, draw what I draw, book. It is more a collection of tips &amp; techniques for drawing almost any subject.<br />The author starts out by explaining each kind of line and what it's used for.  Next, she explains value. Ink washes, a dry brush, and a variety of  different line types are then used to create contrast and texture.<br />The  design &amp; composition section is great for showing you how to put  everything together and what pitfalls to look out for. She also guides you  through choosing a subject, finding a good photo to work from and achieving  perspective.<br />Finally, each kind of subject is explained in detail. Some  include flowers, landscapes, all kinds of water, and buildings. She also  covers many animals including dogs, horses &amp; birds. Human faces &amp;  figures are detailed as well.	2000-05-02
2501958:US	52918997	R2SE5PSUAZMEJ6	1580170870	718511712	Papermaking with Plants: Creative Recipes and Projects Using Herbs, Flowers, Grasses, and Leaves	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Must-have for making paper from plants	This is a must have book for anyone who wants to make paper from plants. It is packed with information not found elsewhere. The full-color illustrations &amp; step-by-step instructions guide you seamlessly through  the papermaking process.<br />The author starts out by explaining the many  kinds of plant fibers and how to find, harvest and store them. All  equipment needed is detailed next. Processing the fiber including cooking,  beating, and retting is then covered.<br />Using dyes &amp; additives as well  as making your own is also discussed. Both Japanese and western sheet  formation are then covered. Instructions are included for making your own  paper press, mold &amp; deckle and high-tech drying box.<br />Many recipes  including mulberry, rose-of-sharon, &amp; seaweed follow. Several projects  including vegetable papyrus &amp; shaped envelopes are next. A chart with  many fibers listed by type can be used to make additional paper types.	2000-05-02
2502056:US	52918997	R3KEDUSZM4SEFB	088266929X	642301504	Nature Printing: With Herbs, Fruits & Flowers	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Great for rubber stampers &amp; paper artists, inspirational	This is a must have book for anyone who collects plants and other nature items. It is also a great find for rubber stampers and other paper artists. The book is in full-color and has many illustrations.<br />The book starts out with a brief history of nature printing.  It then details collecting,  transporting, and pressing a wide variety of plants. Then paper &amp;  materials for printing and the printing process itself are discussed.<br />Specialized techniques for printing objects such as spider webs, shells,  feathers, gyotaku (fish rubbing), Taku-ga (rubbing picture), bubble  printing &amp; cyanotype are demonstrated as well. All the instructions are  easy to follow.<br />There are also many wonderful projects including fabric  painting, wall printing &amp; note cards. The resource guide is a nice  bonus. This inexpensive craft is easy enough a child, yet rewarding for  adults.	2000-05-02
2502084:US	52918997	RX0B4Z8QTK3V8	0764540386	176896807	Painter 5 Studio Secrets (The Secrets Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very helpful, great photos, nice tutorials on cd	I found this book very helpful in learning to use all of Painter's features effectively. It was easy to read &amp; has lots of good photos. My only wish is that it had more accurate instructions on using the CD.<br />My  favorite section was on the Painter pallets. It shows example pictures for  each &quot;brush&quot; &amp; it's variants. Sample photos also showed the  various options available in the gradient box. These made it far easier to  know what tool to use.<br />Other sections of the book covered masking, image  hose use, painting &amp; composite techniques, special effects, working  with type, enhancing &amp; outputting images, animation &amp; web  application, and using Painter with other programs.<br />The CD contains some  good movies on making blobs, creating an image hose from a floater,  building and editing floaters maps and making mosaic or patterned type. It  also includes tutorials on making movies &amp; working with color.	2000-05-02
2502090:US	52918997	R38BQMX92HM9VY	1566409578	277621977	Susan Seddon Boulet: The Goddess Paintings	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Beautiful, really captures the soul of each goddess	Susan Boulet's paintings capture the beauty &amp; sprit of over 40 goddesses. Many images are mystical, magical and mysterious, while others have an almost haunting quality.  I love the soft earthy colors she  uses.<br />Each painting is in full color on glossy stock &amp; contained to a  single page. In a few cases several portraits are done of a single goddess.  Alongside, on a separate page, sidebars tell what each goddess represents  &amp; her history.<br />Some of my favorites include the Bird Goddess &amp;  Bast, an Egyptian goddess with a female face &amp; a cat's body. I also  enjoyed the brief history of mythology &amp; information on the artist  herself contained in the forward.<br />I liked this book so much I bought an  extra copy so I could cut out the artwork &amp; use it to decorate my home.  The setup is great for this, in most cases pictures are not back to back on  the same page.	2000-05-02
2502119:US	52918997	R2W0NQLJ1EHT78	0883638991	9545287	Spectacular Ireland	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Beautiful coffee table book	This is an essential book for anyone of Irish descent or who simply loves and wants to learn more about Ireland. It features brief historical information and many large breathtaking photos on premium glossy  stock.<br />In the Ancient sites section many mysterious tombs with huge rocks  are shown. Next, you get a look into Ireland's stone monasteries &amp;  abbeys featuring majestic stone crosses. Grand Castles are then explored.<br />The following sections on Ireland's gardens &amp; landscapes are truly  dazzling. The colors are so vibrant they make you feel as if you're there.  A few 3-page fold-out panorama's are included.<br />The cites chapter  highlights Ireland's buildings including many impressive photos of  doorways, churches, &amp; cityscapes. Lastly, the Irish people are shown  playing sports, celebrating holidays, &amp; performing traditional dances  &amp; music.	2000-05-02
2502121:US	52918997	RZT7CO5QJV9JI	0670869961	77209248	The Pasta Bible	Books	5	65	66	N	N	Essential for pasta lovers	This is an absolutely essential book for anyone who loves pasta. It is packed with wonderful color photos. The recipes are delicious. Some are quite involved and require exotic ingredients.<br />Being so much more than a  cookbook, it starts out with a brief history of pasta. It then discusses  grain in detail. Pictures of each flour type &amp; an illustration of a  wheat grain are included here. There are also pictures all the of pasta  tools.<br />Next, dry pasta is covered. There are great photos of over 125  different pastas, including Asian noodles. It also demonstrates step by  step how to make, &amp; shape fresh pasta doughs from scratch.<br />I loved  the inclusion of colored, flavored pastas. The sweet pastas including  chocolate noodles are divine. Other great recipes focused on pasta sauces,  soups, dumplings, gnocchi, baked pastas and stuffed dishes.	2000-05-02
2502154:US	52918997	R1SF8YVLAXABPT	0881923508	929311674	How to Draw Plants: The Techniques of Botanical Illustration	Books	4	91	93	N	N	For those with some experience, Technical Drawing	This book focuses on technical drawing as the basis of botanical illustration. It brings together an understanding of plant structure with drawing technique as the keys to success.<br />Selecting, preserving and  examining plants is discussed. A variety of plant structures are shown in  detail with the process of building up the drawing.<br />Pencil, ink and  scratchboard are the main media covered. The addition of color is presented  in watercolors and acrylics. There are several beautiful color plates, some  historical and some by the author.<br />This is a book best suited to an  artist with some experience. The wealth of technical information will  provide the artist with a greater understanding of and proficiency in  botanical work.	2000-05-02
2502156:US	52918997	R38Z5EN743XFOO	1574327046	90055118	Magic Stack-N-Whack Quilts	Books	5	81	82	N	N	Excellent guide to easily making kaleidoscope quilts	As a beginning quilter, I found this book to be an excellent guide for easily making kaleidoscope quilts without mirrors or extensive measuring and cutting. As a paper crafter as well, I found the technique great for  collages.<br />The book starts out by explaining how to choose fabric and pick  colors. It's a great plus that almost any fabric that has a repeat pattern  can be used. Then, there are lots of great tips on rotary cutting, machine  piecing &amp; pressing.<br />Next, the stack-n-whack process is demonstrated  in detail with step-by-step instructions and full-color photos. Fourteen  different quilt projects, in 7 different styles follow. Illustrations are  used instead of photos for these.<br />The quilts themselves are beautiful.  There are large color photos of each one. In the back there are guides and  patterns for all the projects as well as lesson plans for classes.	2000-05-02
2502196:US	52918997	R5KMO929RL8AJ	0962813702	58957897	Kanji Pict-O-Graphix: Over 1,000 Japanese Kanji and Kana Mnemonics	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Highly reccomended, great visual &amp; written mnemonics	I have bought lots of Kanji books and this is one of my favorites. I would recommend this book to anyone trying to learn to read the Kanji characters. The visual and written mnemonics really helped me remember the characters.<br />The book is broken down by subjects; some include the world, food, body,  people and animals. For each word the Kanji character, reference #, English  meaning and visual/text mnemonic are show.<br />On and Kun readings, as well  as the schematic of elements are also included. There is a Kanji index in  the back.My only wishes were that it had the romaji translation and  contained information on how to write the characters.	2000-05-02
2503177:US	52918997	R1BUZ91SUGA8VN	0823055752	449598747	The Ultimate Marbling Handbook: A Guide to Basic and Advanced Techniques for Marbling Paper and Fabric (Watson-Guptill Crafts)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Best marbling book. Creative ideas. Inspirational.	This is the best marbling book I have found. It is packed with creative ideas &amp; techniques not found in other books. It takes you seamlessly through the process of suminagashi, oil,  &amp; watercolor marbling as well  as marbling on fabric.<br />Tools, techniques and finished works are shown in  full color throughout. The guide to creating marbled designs is fantastic.  It shows you step-by-step how to make a bird, butterfly, heart, flowers,  fish &amp; 30 classic patterns.<br />Various advanced techniques including  overmarbling &amp; compressing, as well as using friskets &amp; a variety  of additives help you create true works of art. The troubleshooting  sections for each method are also a big help.<br />I love the numerous color  photo examples &amp; inspirational gallery that includes applications of  marbling in a wide range of finished art works and 3-dimensional objects. A  useful source directory is also included.	2000-05-01
2556550:US	52918997	RY8E4G764IGCZ	1580171907	584164610	Simple Fountains for Indoors & Outdoors: 20 Step-By-Step Projects	Books	5	68	68	N	N	Build a wide variety of impressive fountains with ease	This is a wonderful book for constructing beautiful &amp; impressive looking fountains. The fountains here are unexpectedly easy to construct &amp; cost far less than commercial ones. It is filled with ideas that allow the maker to add his own unique touch.<br />The materials selection is  varied. Almost any watertight vessel can be the basis of a small fountain.  Other materials include bamboo, wood, ceramic, concrete, stone &amp; metal.  Pump selection &amp; mechanical requirements are also covered.<br />Projects  range from small table-top fountains to elaborate outdoor units. There are  even instructions for a 3' high tiered waterfall. All have clear  construction diagrams &amp; color photos of the finished work.<br />Helpful  extras include lists of suitable plants to use with the fountains,  suggestions for finding materials, &amp; a list of mail order suppliers.  This is the book to get if you want to know the joy of building a fountain  of your own creation.	2000-04-03
2586785:US	52918997	R8TIERKNOT5YO	1558684697	637088720	California	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Breathtaking photos, wide varitey of beatiful landscapes	I love David and Marc Muench's photography and this book is a treasured addition to my library. The color and production values are exquisite and up to the high standards I expect from Muench.<br />These photos capture the  awesome beauty and fantastic variety in California's natural landscape  through the seasons. The book is divided into sections for the mountains,  forests &amp; plains, coast and desert.<br />Muench has brought new life to  many often photographed landmarks with his mastery of light and detail. He  has also uncovered many beautiful but less known places; dawn &amp; dusk  skies, vibrant flowers, delicate waterfalls &amp; more.<br />James Lawrence's  accompanying text touching on a wide range of topics relating to  California's natural history is fascinating and entertaining. I have loved  spending hours with this magnificent book.	2000-03-20
2587575:US	52918997	R1BOOH6PK9NP8	1564965392	800674290	The Decorative Painter's Color Shaper Book (BOOK ONLY)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Easy to follow instructions, dazzling results	This book unlocks a great array of dazzling painting effects made easy by using color shapers, &quot;brushes&quot; with various size and shape rubber tips instead of bristles. The 3 color shapers that come with the book are  of top quality.<br />I really enjoy the feel of the color shapers and the ease  with which I learned to control them. They can be used to apply paint or  manipulate or remove paint from a surface, creating endless  possibilities.<br />The book starts with basic strokes then on to a wide  variety of projects using different techniques &amp; readily available  materials, including metal, wood, ceramics &amp; paper. There are some  great effects by combining colors and glazes in layers.<br />The projects have  clear instructions with color photos every step of the way. They are a  springboard for more ideas. The color shapers are now among my favorite  tools and I keep finding new ways to use them.	2000-03-20
2587726:US	52918997	R2G1H6MPG5KBZ4	1886801932	935057767	The Poser 4 Handbook (Graphics Series)	Books	5	20	44	N	N	Thorough coverage of Poser 4, includes use of other software	This book is a great complement to Poser 4, one of the most powerful and affordable graphic animation packages. It is ideal for the new user &amp; essential for one who has upgraded to version 4 to utilize all the new  features.<br />Basic concepts &amp; controls are presented first. Details of  posing hands and faces in stationary figures are explained and applied to  animal figures as well. Hair &amp; clothing options, greatly expanded in  version 4, are covered.<br />Moving on to animation, the power of Poser 4 is  revealed. Animation controls are introduced, again emphasizing hands, faces  &amp; animal movements. Creative morphing and distortion, great for sci-fi  applications, are described.<br />Advanced topics include using Poser in  conjunction with a wide variety of other software packages, backgrounds  &amp; props, and customization. Several impressive step-by-step projects  will help you master Poser's power.<br />The CD-ROM will add hours of  exploration and value to your Poser work. It includes many objects ready to  include in Poser scenes. A list of Poser-related web sites is a great  bonus.	2000-03-20
2605230:US	52918997	R1FAOMMZY6YWBI	1565230876	499476377	Collapsible Basket Patterns: Over 100 Designs for the Bandsaw or Scrollsaw	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Over 100 full-page patterns, Ingenious &amp; useful designs	This book presents an ingenious, useful and impressive design concept for the woodworker. It is a central spiral cut collapsible basket supported in a frame that can be cut in countless designs.<br />These baskets are made from a single piece of &quot; hardwood. There are instructions for the bandsaw  or scroll saw. Over 100 full page patterns are provided and the size can be  adjusted by enlarging or reducing the pattern.<br />Patterns include farm  &amp; wild animals, dinosaurs, teddy bears, people, vehicles, buildings and  traditional baskets. Many more designs could be easily adapted to the basic  basket technique.<br />The baskets can be used as candy or trinket dishes and  are wonderful with decorative floral arrangements. They collapse for  storage or use as a trivet and make great gifts.	2000-03-07
2605476:US	52918997	R1Z4LIEGAYQ7AI	0823012824	435940598	Decorative Papercutting: 25 Imaginative Projects to Make from Paper	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wide variey of creatvie projects with excellent instructions	This is a wonderful book featuring a wide variety of unique projects to suit any taste. Project skill levels vary from easy to complicated. Though they do take some time &amp; patience the end result is well worth it.<br />The instructions are excellent. Each project includes a materials list,  templates &amp; step-by-step instructions accompanied by color photos.  There is also a full-page color photo of each project in its completed  state.<br />Some of my favorite projects include a picture frame, an urn of  roses, punched lanterns, Easter birds, a gift basket, a snowflake sewing  box, butterfly greeting cards, people garlands, alphabet cubes &amp; a  Mexican ceiling banner.<br />I highly recommend this book for older children  &amp; adults seeking to create beautiful and impressive looking paper  artwork &amp; gifts.	2000-03-07
2605719:US	52918997	RBZZUV7PVCO7N	0823012786	839898160	Painting American Folk Art	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Learn to paint a variety of folk art styles with ease	This is a wonderful book that teaches all the skills necessary for painting in a wide variety of folk art styles. Historical information, although brief, is pertinent and useful.<br />The basics of brushstrokes, blending, preparing surfaces, antiquing, transferring images, stencil  cutting, &amp; varnishing are explained and illustrated so that even a  novice painter can quickly achieve professional quality results.<br />A  materials list, pattern &amp; complete step-by-step instructions  accompanied by color photos are included for each of the basic techniques  &amp; 11 projects. Conveniently, the degree of difficulty is also listed.<br />Some of my favorite projects are a country tin coffeepot, a  putty-grained saltbox, a bronzed tray with fruit, tinsel painted flowers, a  Fraktur painted house blessing in a faux mahogany fame &amp; a  Pennsylvania-Dutch bird with heart.	2000-03-07
2605767:US	52918997	R1V4OQ1ZY856K0	1555913083	470629127	In the Japanese Garden	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Breathtaking photos blend with history &amp; philosophy	This book is packed with breathtaking photos of beautiful Japanese gardens. The history and philosophy behind the elements in many varied types of gardens is well explained so the reader can understand the  significance as well as the beauty.<br />There are sections on the use of  various materials including stone, sand, gravel, water and flora of many  types. The meticulous design, planning and maintenance of these gardens  down to the last stone or leaf is incredible.<br />Among all of the other  elements, what most impressed me throughout was the lush greenery.  Carefully shaped trees and hedges, and rich beds of moss combine with water  and stone to make unique and special places.<br />Though not intended as a  &quot;how-to&quot; book, the many examples here provide inspiration to  incorporate features of Japanese design into other landscaping settings.  These are wonderful places to nurture peace, serenity and contemplation.	2000-03-07
2637004:US	52918997	R3KJJL37WHK6PJ	087654071X	254152463	Buffalo Gals, Won't You Come Out Tonight	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Dynanic paintings, wonderful writting	This is a marvellous collaboration between a wonderful writer and superb artist. Le Guin's captivating story is brought to life by Boulet's dynamic paintings.<br />It is a story of the relationships among humans, animals and  nature as the old ones, the animals, struggle to adapt and survive amid  human expansion into their realm.<br />This subject is a natural for Boulet,  whose work has always focused on these themes. There are 22 paintings of  animals given human characteristics so vivid you feel you can see into  their souls.<br />This is a wonderful book for an older child. It subtly  teaches important lessons in life with a very entertaining story. Any fan  Boulet's work will find it a welcome addition to their library.	2000-02-12
2637038:US	52918997	R9UJVLKIGS2QN	0881924709	446105273	The Garden Plants of China	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beautiful photographs, great historical info	This is a fabulous, beautifully photographed, survey of the decorative plants native to China. The book opens with details of China's rich horticultural heritage and the role of plants in Chinese culture.<br />Further  chapters are broken down by type of plant. These include bamboos, fruit  trees, orchids, roses, chrysanthemums, aquatic plants and more. Items both  familiar and exotic to the western gardener will be found here.<br />Many  specific varieties are described in each chapter, with Latin, Chinese and  common names. History, native habitat, and uses for each plant are  described.<br />The photography is outstanding with several close-up color  photos on each page. There is also a nice smattering of old botanical  illustrations and Chinese art. I highly recommend this book.	2000-02-12
2637460:US	52918997	R3SN2SS5WOQ2BB	1558684166	154368415	Plateau Light	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Breathtaking photos of the Colorado plateau	This book offers a breathtaking view of the Colorado plateau. The full-page color photos are so incredibly vivid they almost jump off the page. It really makes you feel like you are there.<br />You get a look at  towering mountains &amp; magnificent nature made stone sculptures.  Cascading waterfalls, meandering steams, peaceful snowscapes, brilliant  autumn leaves, beautiful flowers &amp; endless skies take your breath away.<br />Muench is a master at capturing detail and light, and this setting shows  off his talent to the maximum. A narrative by James Lawrence provides a  history of the area and conveys the feelings inspired by this natural  wonderland.<br />Some images have small quotes &amp; poems under them. In the  back, each photo is shown in miniature with comments from photographer and  technical details. This book provides a beautiful world to get lost in.	2000-02-12
2653570:US	52918997	R3MKPNR2NUZEE7	1883651042	97137129	Mountain Mornings Breakfasts and Other Recipes from the Inn at 410 B & B	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Delicious recpies,	This is a delightful book filled with delicious recipes from the Inn at 410 B&amp;B in Arizona. The dishes use easily found ingredients and most are easy to make. It is printed in black &amp; white with a few  illustrations.<br />The book starts with baking tips including tips on  lowering fat. Recipes include beverages, fruits, breakfasts, muffins,  breads, spreads, scones, cookies &amp; desserts. Sample menus are also  given.<br />My favorite recipes are the blintz souffl&eacute; with blueberry sauce  &amp; Parmesan herb muffins. I also enjoyed the oatmeal pancakes, hash  brown pie, tropical scones, raspberry cr&egrave;me anglaise &amp; cinnamon kiss  cookies.	2000-01-31
2654021:US	52918997	R3RL0AC1H5F1WP	1579901050	232373225	Tabletop Fountains: 40 Easy and Great Looking Projects to Make	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Must have, packed with inspirational ideas	I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to make their own beautiful fountains. I was easily able to create impressive fountains that rival any in stores at a fraction of the retail cost.<br />The book starts out with the  basics including a detailed discussion of material preparation, mechanics  &amp; assembly. Design accents &amp; concealers are then described. There  is even a section on preventing problems.<br />Forty projects then follow.  There is full-page color photo of each fountain. It is accompanied by a  materials list &amp; detailed step-by-step instructions. My favorite is a  mask fountain with water pouring from it mouth.<br />Other fountains are made  with a wide variety of easily found materials including tiles, shells,  Corian, cement, glass, wood, copper, marbles, clay pots, bamboo, Lego  blocks, used circuit boards &amp; old CDs.	2000-01-31
2654090:US	52918997	R1OC5HZ2RFUJIQ	0817245626	595427165	Gorillas (Untamed World)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	packed with fascinating facts, nice color photos	This is an interesting book about the daily lives of gorillas. There are many color photos of gorillas in a variety of situations. I love that book not only contains true facts, but myths &amp; folklore about gorillas from  around the world.<br />The book starts out describing gorillas' features  &amp; characteristics. This includes information on senses &amp; movements  as well. It then does a great job of explaining the differences in primate  groups &amp; gorilla classifications.<br />Group activities, communication  &amp; interaction with other animals are also covered as well as  information on there food cycle, nest building &amp; habitat. You even get  to glimpse into the life of a gorilla from birth to death.<br />At the end  there is an engaging discussion on conservation efforts including addresses  where you can write for more information. The glossary, suggested readings  &amp; a section listing 20 fascinating facts are nice bonuses.	2000-01-31
2655048:US	52918997	R2I90DOVTZTB1F	0870409832	265416851	Temari Treasures: Japanese Thread Balls and More	Books	5	72	72	N	N	Detailed instructions for 12 projects	This book brings the traditional Japanese art of Temari, decorative balls wrapped with thread, within the realm of any craftsperson. Styrofoam balls and materials available in any fabric shop are all you will need.<br />While  some practice and patience are required, the detailed step-by-step  instructions, wonderful diagrams and consistent terminology will guide you  to success. Using pins to mark the pattern and align the threads is the  key.<br />Twelve complete projects are taken from start to finish. These  include a variety of geometric patterns and my favorites, the beautiful  floral patterns. For variety there is a spinning top ornament plus tassels  that can be added.<br />There is a great color photo gallery showing off the  fabulous color and detail that can be achieved with these projects. Making  these Temari will give you a sense of pride and accomplishment, and  heirloom ornaments to treasure.	2000-01-30
2655446:US	52918997	R16YHA1K6K6DCJ	1564966402	657235027	Collage Art: A Step-By-Step Guide & Showcase	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Must have, tons of inspriational art &amp; ideas	I own several collage books and this is definitely on my must have list. It is packed with full-color photos of inspirational &amp; imaginative collage art from a variety of talented artists.<br />The book is divided into  sections focusing on paper, fabric &amp; found object collage. Collagraphy,  in which the collage itself serves as a plate for transferring the texture  to a print that can be further embellished is also included.<br />Each  section features two projects that are both described &amp; demonstrated  step-by-step with color photos. I especially like one made entirely of  paste papers. I was able to create a stunning abstract artwork with  ease.<br />Resource &amp; school lists along with an artist directory are nice  bonuses. I highly recommend this book to anyone seeking excellent  instruction &amp; fresh ideas to create their own collage artwork.	2000-01-30
2655698:US	52918997	R7256KUKP0I1U	1555611559	290424933	Crockery Cook	Books	5	99	101	N	N	Highy recoomened, lots of variety, has nutrition info	I highly recommend this book for anyone wanting to make delicious, easy to make meals without a lot of time &amp; effort. Recipes include desserts, soups, vegetables &amp; main meals. It is printed in blue ink with a few  full-page color photos.<br />The book starts out with menu suggestions &amp;  crockery basics. Great tips for thickening sauces, browning &amp; enhancing  presentation are also included.<br />Conveniently, recipes are then arranged  by cooking time from less than 6 hours to more than 10. I love that there  are tips to lower fat content &amp; that nutritional information is  included for each recipe.<br />There is a lot of variety here including  traditional favorites like beef stew &amp; chicken soup as well as  international delights such as tamale pie &amp; Thai pork. There are also  great dishes for entertaining such as bread pudding &amp; Italian roll-ups.	2000-01-30
2696700:US	52918997	R1J3A66LV161KW	157120072X	353894197	Skydyes: A Visual Guide to Fabric Painting	Books	5	102	107	N	N	Easily create beatiful skies &amp; landscapes, Inspriational	This is a wonderful book that will allow you to easily create magnificent pained skies, sunsets, gardens, landscapes &amp; seascapes on fabric. Throughout the book, photos of beautiful &amp; unique landscape quilts will  inspire you.<br />The author shows how, by using the right materials and some  simple techniques, anyone can achieve beautiful and dramatic results even  if they have no actual painting talent or ability.<br />The basics of  supplies, fabric preparation, &amp; color mixing are covered first. Then,  each technique is demonstrated &amp; explained with clear step-by-step  instructions accompanied by color photos.  <br />In the back, there are  complete instructions for a gorgeous vertical row harbor quilt. The  resource list is a nice bonus. I highly recommend this book for any quilter  or fabric painter.	2000-01-02
2696905:US	52918997	R1GAH594AU35A9	0823008584	805390437	The Art of Faux: The Complete Sourcebook of Decorative Painted Finishes (Crafts Highlights)	Books	5	117	117	N	N	Most comprehensive faux guide, beautiful finishes	This is the most complete guide to faux painting I have found. There are excellent step-by-step instructions accompanied by full-color photos for each technique. Materials needed, exercises &amp; difficulty ratings are  also included.<br />The book starts teaching the basics of paint properties  &amp; color mixing. I was very impressed with the section on painting tools  &amp; bushes. It includes a photo, a complete description &amp; the proper  holding method for each item.<br />Next, glaze application, surface  preparation &amp; finishing coat techniques are demonstrated. A vast array  of beautiful &amp; impressive faux techniques follow. My favorites were the  red tortoiseshell tile &amp; mosaic effects.<br />This author is obviously  very knowledgeable &amp; I really appreciated the time she took to  share  her experiences, explaining everything in detail. The resource list is also  a nice bonus. I highly recommend this book to anyone.	2000-01-02
2696947:US	52918997	R3FQQGAUYQEYJX	1567995551	885470285	Shade Gardening With Derek Fell: Practical Advice and Personal Favorites from the Best-Selling Author and Television Show Host (For Your Garden Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful!, Overview of 50 plants, great tips &amp; ideas	This is a marvelous book of information and ideas for exciting garden projects suited to shady areas. From formal to city and container gardens, there are possibilities here to fit any application.<br />Site evaluation and  selection of suitable plants are covered first. Then there are some great  tips on soil preparation, planting and care of the plants. You learn how to  use a lath house or tunnel house to shelter young plants.<br />The design  section presents a number of specialized thematic ideas including wildlife,  woodland and water gardens. Photographs of many beautiful examples bring  these ideas to life.<br />There is a selection of 50 distinctive plants that  thrive in shade profiled in detail and beautifully photographed.  Characteristics and uses of each plant are described. Overall there is a  wealth of useful information here.	2000-01-02
2697058:US	52918997	R26ASFQTKRK95J	0866224890	765466851	Success with Cichlids from Lake Malawi & Tanganyika	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Comprehensive, great photos	This is an exceptionally informative book for any aquarist interested in keeping East African cichlids. There is general information on aquarium set up &amp; maintenance along with specialized detail on these beautiful  exotic fishes.<br />I especially enjoyed the section on the native habitat of  the East African lakes with maps and many photos of fish in their natural  setting. I appreciate knowing this background of the fish I am  keeping.<br />Individual species of cichlids are described with their unique  characteristics. Clear photos show the variety and beautiful coloration  within this family. Selecting fish that will live together in harmony is  emphasized.<br />The comprehensive species specific feeding instructions  provided are invaluable since the requirements vary widely among the  different cichlids. Breeding and health tips complete this great guide.	2000-01-02
2697179:US	52918997	R1X43FY3V1JRK1	0871569477	168975760	Songbirds: Celebrating Nature's Voices	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Easy to read fascinating narratifve presenting facts &amp; lore	This is a great book for anyone interested in learning more about the songbirds in their back yard or neighborhood, or from the far corners of the world. There are special notes on attracting, observing and conserving  birds.<br />This is not an encyclopedic reference with page after page of  repetitive format, but rather a fascinating narrative presenting scientific  fact and lore in a pleasant easy to read style. It is a book you'll want to  read from cover to cover.<br />Why and how birds sing is a focal point of the  book. There is also comprehensive information on the feeding habits,  breeding, migration and raising of young of many varied species.<br />The  photography is spectacular with color photos on almost every page including  great close up views of many beautiful and exotic species. Over 500  different birds are mentioned and references for further study are  provided.	2000-01-02
2697276:US	52918997	R11W6Y0A9ADGK9	0811724557	106177419	How to Photograph Flowers (How To Photograph Series)	Books	5	6	17	N	N	Beautiful photos, comprehensive info	This wonderful book is packed with gorgeous flower photos and excellently presented practical information. It will appeal to anyone who wants to photograph flowers or who just appreciates them.<br />I like the way every  point is demonstrated by an actual flower photograph. No space is wasted  with pictures of equipment or other distractions. Still there is a wealth  of technical information clearly &amp; logically presented.<br />Each photo  illustrates a specific concept of photographic technique and composition,  described succinctly in the caption and in detail in the associated text.  Information on the flowers and location is also included.<br />The book also  chronicles the author's worldwide travels as a commercial flower  photographer. Various business opportunities are explored and lists of  sources are references are provided as well.	2000-01-02
2697297:US	52918997	RUDWG3N9QAA51	1890087009	614849563	Natural Reef Aquariums: Simplified Approaches to Creating Living Saltwater Microcosms	Books	5	84	89	N	N	Comprehensive, great info on simulating regions, great photo	This is a wonderfully comprehensive book on the challenging project of keeping a salt-water reef aquarium. Although still technology dependent, it emphasizes natural materials and methods to simulate this complex  environment.<br />Plumbing, temperature control, lighting &amp; filtration  systems are covered in detail with step-by-step instructions on setting up  the aquarium and establishing a living reef colony utilizing live rock  &amp; sand.<br />My favorite feature of the book is the detailed analysis of  the reef biology of different regions with recommendations for simulating  them in the aquarium. These include Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico and Pacific  reefs.<br />There are great color photos throughout the book of the  fascinating &amp; beautiful corals, invertebrates and fishes that can  inhabit the reef aquarium. A superb list of sources completes this  essential reference.	2000-01-02
2697380:US	52918997	RSR5FNUF1RDW6	0896584194	647955280	Puffins (Worldlife Library)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Comprehesive, great photos,	This is a wonderfully complete and attractive guide to one of nature's most interesting and beautiful birds. The similarities and differences in the 3 distinct puffin species are described, including maps showing their  range.<br />The unique and fascinating behavior of puffins is explained in an  entertaining way by the author who has great knowledge of and affection for  these birds. Adaptations that have led to puffins' unusual appearance are  documented.<br />Superb color photos include many close ups that show the  characteristics of the 3 species. There are scenes of puffins feeding and  nesting in colonies plus great action shots of birds in flight and diving  underwater.<br />Natural and man made hazards to puffins and promising  conservation efforts are reported. Puffins are very appealing to many  people and this book presents the information we need to better know these  birds.	2000-01-02
2697525:US	52918997	R1XSI0GDUNXTE7	156496275X	890127635	Paper Flowers (Make It With Paper)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Inspirational galleries, easy to make beautiful flowers	This is a great book that shows you how to easily create 8 different flower types. It is in full-color &amp; includes instructions for roses, tulips, daisies, irises, daylilies, posies, cactus, &amp; lotus flowers.<br />Each flower is demonstrated step-by-step with written instructions,  illustrations &amp; photos. Flower assembly includes cutting, gluing &amp;  folding. Conveniently, templates are provided in the back for each project.<br />Following each flower style is a gallery featuring beautiful &amp;  creative design ideas. These delightful galleries really helped inspire me  with table decorations, boxes, bouquets and gift ideas.<br />I highly  recommend this book for all skills levels &amp; ages. With this book anyone  make impressive paper flowers. I made a few of these easy pieces and even  my husband was impressed.	2000-01-02
2697568:US	52918997	R12M1U61TIIYWP	0881922641	445195407	Gardening with Perennials Month by Month	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Essential reference, comprehensive	The instant I saw this book I knew I had to have it. It is an essential guide for any gardener growing perennials. With its index &amp; extensive lists it allows anyone to easily find plants to suit their landscape.<br />Flowers are listed for each month from March through September.  Conveniently, at the start of each chapter, there is a list of flowers by  color. Plants are then listed alphabetically by scientific name.<br />For each  plant there is information on its common name, flowering span, physical  description, zone &amp; culture. Other data may include native habitat,  cultivation, bothersome diseases or pests &amp; small color photos.<br />A  great reference section in the back lists plants by characteristics,  including those that bloom all season long, 6 weeks or more &amp; in the  winter. Fruit bearing, drought resistant, moisture loving &amp; shade  tolerant varieties are also listed.	2000-01-02
2723123:US	52918997	R381B33E6M7ZJA	0817245642	578695260	Whooping Cranes (The Untamed World)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Comprehensive &amp; Fascinating book, great for home libary	This is a comprehensive book filled with fascinating facts &amp; conservation information on the endangered whooping cane. The many full-color photos, illustrations, &amp; charts are very informative.<br />Information includes socialization, communication, migration, flight  formation, habitat,  &amp; feeding habits as well as the care &amp;  development of young chicks.  Physical traits are also detailed including  skeleton &amp; feather illustrations.<br />I found a section on identifying  &amp; differentiating cranes, pelicans, geese &amp; other large birds to be  very helpful. Another great addition is classification chart listing each  crane species, its Latin name &amp; where they live.<br />The short story of  Sadako, folklore, &amp; instructions on folding a paper crane are a real  treat &amp; make this book more interesting. The glossary, suggested  readings, &amp; places you can contact to help are also great bonuses.	1999-12-12
2723157:US	52918997	R1F7FJ9FV0UJ7X	1561581941	238077335	Landscaping with Wood: The Practical Guide to Building Outdoors	Books	5	59	62	N	N	Comprehensive. Pratical &amp; impressive projects for everyone	This is one of the most informative and useful outdoor construction books I have seen. It is packed with practical and doable ideas to enhance the structure and beauty of any garden space or outdoor living area.<br />There is  a great section on wood characteristics and making the right selection for  your application. Joinery, hardware and finishes for outdoor use are  covered in detail. Masonry foundations and heavy timber construction are  also included.<br />Projects include borders, steps and retaining walls.  Raised beds can add stable planting areas and decorating opportunities.  Free standing structures include arbors, pergolas, trellises and fences  with some great design ideas.<br />Excellent diagrams, step-by-step  instructions, tool &amp; safety tips, and a resource guide should help  anyone with basic carpentry skills complete some very impressive projects.  There is something here for any yard or garden.	1999-12-12
2723334:US	52918997	R3TL5WSBCCE6LX	014028401X	621554797	The Art of Mehndi	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Best book on mehndi	This is the best book on the art of mehndi I have found. It is packed with color photo examples including many of stars such as Madonna &amp; Gwen Stefani.  The featured designs are both beautiful &amp; unique.<br />The  author starts out with a brief history including the wedding customs &amp;  symbolism of the designs in India, North Africa, the Middle East, &amp;  Asia. She also covers the trend as it has developed in the western  world.<br />Next there are clear step-by-step instructions for preparing your  skin, wrapping the cone, making the paste, &amp; applying the henna. Even  using stencils, applying transfers &amp; painting freehand are expertly  explained.<br />Numerous design illustrations follow including tips, tricks  &amp; techniques for decorating all parts of the body. I especially liked  the floral necklace with bindis &amp; vine belt designs. A resource list  for both the US and UK is a nice bonus.	1999-12-12
2723490:US	52918997	R39CJNDDSD25S9	1564963527	91882793	Making Musical Instruments by Hand	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Deliful book packed with easy to make insturments	This is a delightful book for anyone who enjoys traditional musical instruments or building small projects. Using basic materials and techniques, this book will lead you to build some truly impressive and  entertaining instruments.<br />There are 9 categories of instruments here  including a shaker, thumb piano, drum, lyre, spike fiddle and zither. Most  use simple materials such as a didgeridoo made from PVC pipe and a whistle  or flute from maple dowels.<br />There are detailed step-by-step instructions  illustrated with color photos for each instrument. There are also complete  tool and material lists for each one and even tips on decorating and  playing the instruments.<br />A wonderful feature is the gallery for each  instrument, showing variations in style and materials by several artisans.  Contact information for them is included along with a detailed resource  guide.	1999-12-12
2745959:US	52918997	R23M55KTT3EMW2	188694704X	401805471	Pebble Beach Golf Links: The Official History	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Beautiful photos, Fascinating Facts	Here is the story of one of America's most beautiful, historic &amp; legendary golf courses. Backed by long hidden files and photos from The Pebble Beach Co. archives, this book is the definitive history of the  course.<br />  The origin, development and fascination business aspects of the  course are covered in detail. Among the multitude of historical photos are  brilliant color shots showing the beauty of the course today.<br />All the  variety and glamour of Pebble Beach are here. Professional and amateur  championships, women's golf and the Bing Crosby years with celebrities  galore are documented with more wonderful photos.<br />Pebble Beach is more  than golf, it is a rich piece of Americana. This book makes that apparent  and is fascinating reading for anyone interested in the sport or the  personalities that make up Pebble Beach lore.	1999-11-25
2746730:US	52918997	R2GYBATVIA3QFH	156640598X	689351608	Medicine Women	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Delightful paintings	Patricia Wyatt's paintings of Native American Medicine Women are delightful. They seem to come alive off the page.<br />These women are powerful yet sensitive, showing a deep understanding of the world and their  place in it. They are an inspiration to all women who are teacher, healer,  nurturer and artist.<br />Susan Freilicher's verses capture the essence of  each painting. Drawing on the wisdom of many cultures they demonstrate the  qualities of the medicine woman in all women.<br />These paintings project  great warmth with vibrant colors. There are wonderful costumes and many  animals, birds and fish are included in the paintings. Printed one to a  page, they would look great framed.	1999-11-25
2752043:US	52918997	R1GRDTPW5F5QPH	1567995500	695866656	Stained Glass: Jewels of Light	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Comprehensive overview of stained glass	This is a beautiful and comprehensive book on the art of stained glass from its origin through today. Both the religious masterpieces of the world and modern art glass are covered in detail.<br />The roots of stained glass  are traced to the discovery of glass itself and the early ways of coloring  it and methods of forming it, with stained glass as we know it appearing  around the eleventh century.<br />The development of stained glass into a  brilliant and dramatic art form is illustrated with magnificent examples  from Saint Chapelle, Chartres, Canterbury and Cologne among others.<br />Much  of the book, however, deals with the technical innovation and artistic  variety of 20th century art glass. Many stunning examples by Tiffany,  Wright, Chagall and others are presented.	1999-11-19
2752215:US	52918997	R12C1RM1UZIKO3	1890087041	739183543	Clownfishes: A Guide to Their Captive Care, Breeding & Natural History	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Comprehensive guide, nice photos	This is an excellent guide to raising clownfishes. I love the numerous full-color photos. The book starts out with a nice overview of the benefits of raising clownfish &amp; information on life in their natural habitat.<br />Next, there is a list featuring detailed information on each of the host  anemones. Anemone care &amp; physiology are also covered. I found the  chapter on species selection very helpful. Each of the different species is  described in detail.<br />There is also great information on choosing  companion fish. General care of fish including aquarium setup, feeding,  keeping your fish healthy &amp; treating diseases is next. A section on  breeding clownfish is invaluable.<br />Clownfish reproduction &amp; spawning  as well as care &amp; feeding of the eggs, larva &amp; young fish are  thoroughly covered. With its expert information this book would make a  wonderful addition to any marine aquarist's library.	1999-11-19
2752649:US	52918997	R25VKZEIOZMFUQ	1552093840	381394297	Secret Worlds	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Must-have, magnificent photos, fascinating facts	This is absolutely a must-have coffee table book for any nature lover. It is filled with spectacular color photos on glossy paper so clear &amp; vibrant they pop off the page. Dalton's high-speed photography is pure  genius.<br />Bats, birds, ladybugs, butterflies, dragonflies, bees &amp; a  vast array of other animals are captured in mid flight. The several frames  of a chameleon lashing out its tongue to capture its prey are captivating.<br />You also get to see numerous frogs &amp; mice as they rest, swim, eat,  climb plants, &amp; leap through the air. A few plants such as moss,  fungus, liverworts, sedge &amp; an oak seeding are also shown up close.<br />Captions for each creature give fascinating information on their daily  lives, eating habits, &amp; special abilities. Get this book, I promise you  won't be disappointed.	1999-11-18
2755643:US	52918997	R39ZXUELQSH5OR	155591246X	301185629	Edible Flowers: From Garden to Palate	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best book of edible flower recipies	This is the best book of edible flower recipes I have found. It is packed with delicious recipes using over 60 different flowers. Conveniently, about half are accompanied by small color photos of the dish.<br />The book starts  out with essential information on cooking with flowers including preserving  &amp; drying them. General recipes such as flower butter, honey, sugar,  syrup &amp;  jelly for each flower follow.<br />There are also facts on each  flower including the scientific name, a brief history, physical  characteristics, description of flavor &amp; ideal growing conditions.  Great basic information on organic gardening in included as well.<br />Most of  the recipes I've tried, including soups, salads, desserts, drinks &amp;  main dishes have been easy to make. My favorite is the herb &amp; flower  cheese terrine. It makes a tasty &amp; impressive party appetizer.	1999-11-10
2755721:US	52918997	RSHDER0WH0I5N	156496583X	859976574	Stamp Art: The Elegant Art of Rubber Stamping	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Woderful, imaginative &amp; inspirational artistic projects	This is a wonderful book for stampers of all levels. It starts out by describing the basic materials &amp; techniques used in stamping. Then it both demonstrates &amp; explains step-by-step each of 15 techniques by  various artists.<br />Some of my favorite projects include faux postage  stamps, stamped booklets, miniature books, stamp carving &amp; reverse  stamping.  An easy, less messy approach to marbling surfaces was  indispensable to me.<br />The 3 galleries focusing on artistic stamping,  altered surfaces, &amp; mixed media effects are of great inspiration.  Another gallery section shows a wide variety of techniques made with just  one stamp, such as cranes or grapevines.<br />The glossary, extensive  resource list &amp; directory of artists are great bonuses. If you're  looking for fresh stamping ideas focusing on non-cute, artistic stamping  this is the book for you.	1999-11-10
2755848:US	52918997	R3ERABVT6F9KEX	4770020732	49600903	Japan Crafts Sourcebook: A Guide to Today's Traditional Handmade Objects	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent reference book, lots of great photos	This is an excellent reference book on over 90 different Japanese crafts from all areas.  For each craft there is a history as well as the basics of how it is made. It is an encyclopedia rather than an instruction  book.<br />Some types of crafts covered include ceramics, textiles, lacquer  ware, bamboo craft, paper, woodcraft, metalwork, dolls, fans, lanterns,  candles &amp; items of calligraphy.<br />The photographs are numerous &amp;  all are in color. I loved looking at the textiles &amp; kimonos. I also  enjoyed the Kyoto ware, kutani ware, bamboo containers &amp; decorative ink  stones.<br />I found the extensive list of books to be invaluable in finding  out how to make the crafts mentioned here. If you intend to visit Japan you  will find the map of craft villages &amp; list of craft museums,  associations &amp; centers very helpful.	1999-11-10
2755954:US	52918997	RVOUGR7H3BND8	1859671365	572964658	Hand-Painting China: How to Design and Paint Your Own Beautiful Ceramics, Without the Need for Kiln-Firing	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Beautiful, simple projects &amp; decorating advice	This is a wonderful book for learning to paint china using new paints that don't require kiln firing. The projects are both beautiful &amp; simple to make. I also found the full-color photos to be very inspirational.<br />About  half the book is dedicated to helping you learn design &amp; decorating  basics, including using china in every room of your home. Different styles  such as Classical, Victorian, Mediterranean &amp; English are described.<br />Fifteen projects with step-by-step explanations and photos follow. My  favorites were an oriental bowl, spice jars &amp; a country quilt vase.  There is also great basic information on materials &amp; techniques.<br />I  was surprised how easy, but impressive the verdigris &amp; marbling  finishes were to recreate. The supply list is also a nice bonus. I highly  recommend this book for anyone wanting to learn more about ceramic  painting.	1999-11-10
2755973:US	52918997	R164QB4EN9ULVK	0896583155	791251323	Sea Turtles of the World (Worldlife Library)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Comprehensive book, well written text, excellent photos	This is a wonderfully comprehensive book on the characteristics, life and hazards facing sea turtles. The well written text truly gives the reader a feel for what life is like for a sea turtle.<br />Facts covered include  ancestry, feeding, growth, navigation, migration, mating &amp; nesting.  Then there are sections on the 8 major species of sea turtles describing  the distinctive features of each.<br />The photos are terrific, with many  great underwater shots of these graceful and powerful swimmers. There are  also nesting turtles and adorable hatchlings. A number of conservation  efforts are shown as well.<br />A major focus of the book is the threats  facing these endangered species, with numbers diminished by decades of  hunting, natural predators and environmental decline. Hopeful efforts are  underway to reverse this trend.	1999-11-10
2760330:US	52918997	R310YY35MK0STB	0963520288	826169951	The J. C. Leyendecker Collection: American Illustrators Poster Book	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great book of Leyendecker art	This book establishes J. C. Leyendecker as one of the great &amp; important, but now often overlooked, illustrators of the early 20th century. He was one of the most popular magazine &amp; advertising artists  of his time.<br />Leyendecker's subjects are people, all with strong character  &amp; expression, painted in exquisite detail. There are ancient warriors,  magnificent football players &amp; businessmen in fine suits portrayed as  modern heroes of the 1920's.<br />The authors do an excellent job of profiling  this very private man, explaining the development of his style and career.  His working technique using many preliminary studies leading to a perfect  finished painting is shown.<br />There are 16 full-page single sided plates  showcasing a wide variety of Leyendeckers's finest work. They are printed  in beautiful color on heavy stock and would look great framed. I really  enjoyed learning about this great artist.	1999-11-03
2766326:US	52918997	ROL0POIF945RR	0823004910	294839517	Bookworks: Books, Memory and Photo Albums, Journals and Diaries Made by Hand	Books	5	80	82	N	N	Full of fresh ideas for all, inspriational galleries	This is a wonderful bookbinding book. The projects here range in skill level from beginning to advanced. Step-by-step instructions accompanied by  color illustrations guide you seamlessly through techniques &amp; projects.<br />I like how the techniques, such as folding types, pamphlet sewing,  multisection sewing, attaching covers &amp; making containers to place the  books in are taught before going on to the projects.<br />My favorite book is  actually four books assembled with Japanese style stitches &amp; encased in  a wraparound box. It is really nice that it shows you how to rebind your  favorite books as well. I have not seen this covered in other books.<br />I  love two-page gallery sections that follow each book type. They are very  inspiring. The supplier's list &amp; bibliography are nice bonuses. With  lots of fresh ideas, this book makes a great gift for yourself or a friend.	1999-10-24
2766354:US	52918997	R3W2CRLWYTYB3I	0881923478	59557389	2: Plants That Merit Attention: Shrubs	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Impressive, lots of useful info not found in other books	I am very impressed with this unique book of over 900 shrubs that will add interest to any garden. The book starts with a glossary of botanical terms  with b/w illustrations of the anatomy of leaves, flowers, fruits &amp;  conifers.<br />Each shrub has botanical &amp; common name, zone, native  habitat, size, spread &amp; shape as well as descriptions of leaves,  flowers &amp; fruit, plus soil &amp; sunlight requirements, disease  tolerance, transplanting &amp; propagation advice.<br />This is much more  detailed than most reference books, giving information on winter appearance  &amp; landscaping value as well. There are 2-3 photos of each species  including a full size view &amp; leaf or flower close-ups.<br />Appendices  conveniently list shrubs by attributes including zone, light &amp; soil  requirements, &amp; color of bloom. There is even information on sources  for each species and gardens where each can be seen.<br />Look for the  companion book Plants That Merit Attention: Trees Vol. 1 which I also  enjoyed.	1999-10-24
2766440:US	52918997	R1PD3S56K6I42H	0823023273	492445248	Fresh Flowers	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Create beautiful &amp; imaginative flower displays easily	This is a wonderful book for anyone seeking to create beautiful &amp; imaginative fresh flower displays with ease. It conveniently arranges the  20 different flower displays by color including white, blue, orange, red,  &amp; green.<br />Each grouping includes a complete materials list, color  photo &amp; helpful advice on its use. Step-by-step instructions  accompanied by color illustrations follow on a fold-out page to guide you  seamlessly through the arrangement process.<br />One of my favorites is the  green roses in a glass bowl filled with limes. An urn filled with oranges,  berries, tulips &amp; poppies is another favorite. An elegant white rose  topiary &amp; a gothic candelabra are also quite impressive.<br />I love the  basic arrangement &amp; maintenance tips as well as the great advice on  table settings &amp; essential tools. A plant directory &amp; a suppliers  list are nice bonuses. These flower displays make excellent centerpieces  &amp; are great for entertaining.	1999-10-24
2766460:US	52918997	R1YPQ6GS6LT0QR	1571200630	613252323	Kaleidoscopes: Wonders of Wonder	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Wonderful look at the art, science, history, &amp; construction	This is a fabulous book on the art &amp; science of the kaleidoscope. It covers the history, lore, construction and artistry of the instruments  themselves and the fantastic images they produce, with great color photos  throughout.<br />The kaleidoscope was invented in 1816 and is much more than a  simple toy. Many rare early kaleidoscopes, which were a popular Victorian  parlor entertainment, are shown and their technical evolution is  described.<br />There has been renewed interest in kaleidoscopes since the  1970's. Much of the book is devoted to these modern models which are fine  and beautifully constructed optical instruments.<br />Many breathtaking  kaleidoscope images are also shown and their emotional and artistic value  is discussed. Lists of artists, galleries, shops and sources complete this  gorgeous, comprehensive and fun reference.	1999-10-24
2766555:US	52918997	R2NASWAXCT4FTT	1574321005	788998897	The Barbie Doll Years: A Comprehensive Listing & Value Guide of Dolls & Accessories (Barbie Doll Years, 3rd ed)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	The best guide to Baribe	This is a great reference for the Barbie collector. The main part of the book is a listing including number issued, date, value and source store  (where applicable) for each item issued from 1959-1998.<br />Items listed  include Barbie and Ken dolls, friends (Francie, Skipper, etc.) dolls, doll  outfits, accessories and Barbie collectibles. Most items are listed in  alphabetical, stock # and year order.<br />There are nearly 50 pages of color  photos of a wide variety of Barbies, friends and accessories. I especially  enjoyed the section on Enesco ceramic collectibles.<br />This is the best  guide to Barbie collectibles that I have seen. The organization and  multiple listings make everything easy to find and a pleasure to use.	1999-10-24
2766574:US	52918997	RA8DIR6SBMXDN	0917304756	590285949	1: Plants That Merit Attention: Trees	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Unique book of rarely seen trees with unique information	I am very impressed with this unique book of rarely seen trees that will add interest to any garden. The book starts with a glossary of botanical  terms with b/w illustrations of the anatomy of leaves, flowers, fruits  &amp; conifers.<br />Information includes botanical name, common name, zone,  native habitat &amp; date introduced. There is a general description of  size, spread, &amp; shape as well as descriptions of leaves, flowers, &amp;  fruit.<br />Culture, including soil quality, ideal sunlight, &amp; disease  tolerance, as well as transplanting &amp; propagation advice are included  also. Three clear photos include the full-size tree &amp; two others show  close-ups of leaves, flowers or trunk.<br />It also gives information on  winter appearance &amp; landscaping value. Even gardens where the trees can  be seen are listed. I really appreciated this type of information. It is so  rarely seen in most reference book.<br />The appendices are extremely helpful  they list botanical gardens &amp; nurseries. A source for each species can  easily be found.  Trees are also listed by characteristics. Some include  zone, light requirements, soil conditions, resistance, color of bloom &amp;  fragrance.	1999-10-24
2766599:US	52918997	R15EP6S7M98EZ0	1561581356	100323569	Making Plastic-Laminate Countertops	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A must have book for working with plastic lamiate	I have built kitchen cabinets &amp; furniture pieces, but didn't feel ready to take on the countertop until I got this book. Its thorough  detailed instructions made making a professional quality countertop a  manageable project.<br />There is much more here than just applying the  laminate. The design section has many tips that will make the kitchen more  functional. Then construction of the base &amp; underlayment are covered  with various options.<br />Preparing, applying &amp; finishing the laminate  for a perfect fit is then described. Excellent photos &amp; diagrams show  exactly what to do and how to avoid common pitfalls.<br />Selection of  materials and use of the router and other tools are well detailed. Custom  touches like rounded corners and a variety of edge trims are included. The  supplier listing is a useful addition.	1999-10-24
2766601:US	52918997	R1ENWFJ24RJV4I	0823056430	642726136	Watercolor and Collage Workshop: Make Better Paintings Through Mastery of Collage Techniques	Books	4	79	80	N	N	Add collage watercolor for intersting &amp; beautiful results	This book delves into the fascinating technique of adding collage elements to watercolor paintings. Basically, this is adding bits of paper of various  shapes, textures &amp; colors to the surface to enhance the painting over  them.<br />Experimentation to develop a personal style is stressed here. Basic  principles of texture, layering, contrast and color are explored first.  Then you see how these elements are incorporated into finished  paintings.<br />The author is an accomplished master of this technique. Many  examples of his work are shown in progress &amp; completed. He emphasizes  throughout how artists of any level in any medium can apply these concepts  to their work.<br />Whether or not you decide to emulate Brommer's work, this  book is a great springboard of ideas and ways of looking at the painting  process. It is filled with solid and helpful ideas.	1999-10-24
2766610:US	52918997	R1NX7B6BN87L58	1580110525	274885931	Trees, Shrubs & Hedges for Home Landscaping: Secrets for Selection and Care	Books	5	91	92	N	N	Excellent	This is an excellent book for anyone with a yard or garden. The book starts out explaining basic design principles, helping you decide where to  place plants. Size, shape, balance &amp; lighting conditions are also  discussed here.<br />Next are detailed illustrations, charts &amp;  step-by-step instructions on selecting, planting, transplanting,  fertilizing, mulching, composting, pruning &amp; training the plants. Site  preparation &amp; soil testing are also included.<br />Profiles of over 50  tree groups (such as the maples or birches) follow.  In each group there  are clear photos of several species. General information is given on  habitat, size, shape, zones, soil, pH, moisture &amp; light  requirements.<br />Plants are indexed by both botanical &amp; common name  making them easy to find. A chart helps find the right tree for flowers,  fruits, bark, fall color, or winter interest. This is a great book to help  beautify any outdoor area.	1999-10-24
2766701:US	52918997	R11ECJR9FGTMG	087341800X	960728186	Foundations in Polymer Clay Design	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Wide selection of projects teaching design basics	This is a great polymer clay book for beginners. It is in full color &amp; packed with many unique &amp; inspirational artwork examples. With a wide  variety of easy projects &amp; techniques, you are sure to find one that  suits your taste.<br />One of the great things about this book is that  beginning artists get a crash course in the elements of design while  creating beautiful artwork. Projects teach basic principles such as color,  shape, line, texture, pattern, movement, contrast, &amp;  unity.<br />Step-by-step examples with b/w illustrations guide you through  each of 22 different projects. Some of my favorites include blended shell  beads, barrettes, an egg with flower millefiori, &amp; a stamped wall  hanging.<br />The section on materials &amp; supplies is very complete  including many options for surface finishing. The resource &amp; artist  lists are a great bonus. This is a wonderful look at the detail, variety  &amp; creativity possible in polymer clay.	1999-10-24
2766748:US	52918997	RHW131K8CWUHC	0823023281	918547046	Dried Flowers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Create beautiful dried displays with ease	This is a wonderful book for anyone seeking to create beautiful &amp; unique dried flower displays with ease. It conveniently arranges the 20  different flower displays by season. The color photos of the arrangements  are inspiring.<br />Each grouping includes a complete materials list, color  photo &amp; helpful advice on its use. Step-by-step instructions  accompanied by color illustrations follow on a fold-out page to guide you  seamlessly through the arrangement process.<br />My favorite uses bundles of  dried yellow roses in a tree to create a cloud effect. I also enjoyed the  purple sphagnum moss twisted into a spiral &amp; a glass vase filled with  dried citrus fruit.<br />I found the discussion of containers very helpful.  The basic drying techniques, arrangement advice &amp; maintenance tips were  also of great help. A plant directory &amp; a suppliers list are nice  bonuses.	1999-10-24
2766794:US	52918997	R2E9Z646GVB5EX	0945352751	462808943	Trees (Plants & Gardens)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inexpensive, but very informative guide to trees	If you want an inexpensive but very informative guide to trees, get this book. The emphasis is on choosing the most suitable tree for a specific  environment, with a special section on urban trees.<br />The best part is an  encyclopedia of 100 trees, with nice color photos of most. Information  includes scientific &amp; common name, hardiness, characteristics, ideal  growing conditions, native habitat &amp; varieties.<br />Additional general  information covers transplanting &amp; caring for the trees. There are also  very useful tables on trees best suited to different geographical regions  and environmentally tolerant trees.<br />If you are looking for trees for  spring bloom, fall color, or specific size, following the recommendations  here will help you select the trees that will thrive in and enhance their  setting in your garden.	1999-10-24
2772868:US	52918997	RGNERMIYCQND6	0764906127	630605702	The Power of the Bear: Paintings by Susan Seddon Boulet	Books	5	63	63	N	N	A beautiful memorial	This book is intended as a memorial to the artist, Susan Seddon Boulet, who died in 1997. The author selected Boulet's powerful paintings of bears as symbolic of her life and spirit.<br />There are 43 paintings and drawings  of bears representing a fine cross-section of Boulet's work. These are  integrated with a complete biography, career history and analysis of the  individual paintings.<br />Boulet's bears are nurturing, protective, healing  and powerful, never violent. They reflect the bear's place in the Shamanic  and native cultures upon which her art is based. The paintings are  beautiful and emotional.<br />I have long admired and enjoyed Boulet's art and  this is my favorite book on her work. I love the paintings and the messages  of peace and hope they convey.	1999-10-14
2773070:US	52918997	R106YELOMI5ZMI	0811702421	695645362	Birds of Prey	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Gorgeous photos, facinating ifo	This is a gorgeous book packed with large color photos of many beautiful live birds. Its intended purpose is as a sourcebook for artists, but it will universally appeal to any bird lover.<br />The introductory chapter  illustrates common features of raptor anatomy. Detailed chapters follow on  17 major North American species with numerous color photos and line  drawings with dimensions.<br />A practical application is included with a  step-by-step section on carving and painting a finely detailed kestrel in  wood. There are even instructions for making remarkable lifelike eyes from  acrylic plastic.<br />The book concludes with a gallery of the author's own  fabulous museum quality carvings. This is a great combination of nature  photography and fine art.	1999-10-14
2773078:US	52918997	R2OMOL42MS2Z01	0764505270	264848152	Smart Homes For Dummies	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Perfect guide to equiping your house for the 21th cen	This is the perfect guide for anyone who wants to equip their home for the 21st century. The focus is on networking the home for audio/video entertainment, telephone, computer &amp; security systems, &amp; making it  all work together.<br />Planning for the new home and remodeling options are  covered. Practical tips tell you exactly what components are needed for  various levels of automation, including what it will cost and how to  stretch your budget.<br />There are enticing hints about technology to come,  how to prepare for it now and what is worth waiting for. Specific brand  name products now on the market are analyzed with warnings about  conflicting standards.<br />For more in depth study of specific topics there  are lists of web resources and print publications. This book will help you  understand what is available in home automation and how to make it a  reality in your own home.	1999-10-14
2773104:US	52918997	R10TPZQY8RHQK4	0789203499	454648101	The Complete Guide to Indoor Gardening	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent house plant resource, great photos	This is an excellent house plant resource. It is packed with color photos featuring a vast array of indoor plants. Lists based on characteristics such as color, foliage, &amp; shade tolerance make choosing the right plant  for you easy.<br />The book starts out with great advice on choosing the  right room for your plant based on heat, humidity, &amp; lighting  conditions. Design suggestions include cover plant groupings, seasonal  selections, &amp; miniature displays.<br />Care &amp; maintenance of plants  follows. There are helpful suggestions on purchasing, fertilizing, potting,  propagating, pruning, &amp; training the plants. There is even a section on  diagnosing plant problems &amp; dealing with pests &amp; diseases.<br />There  is also a wonderful guide to plant families &amp; a plant encyclopedia.  Information includes photo, common name, scientific name, origin, physical  characteristics, ideal growing conditions, feeding &amp; propagation.	1999-10-14
2773127:US	52918997	R1798P3VACLTOI	1886947015	452478319	Golf Course Architecture: Design, Construction & Restoration	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fascinating,	This is a fascinating book for any golf enthusiast or historian, as well as an essential practical resource for anyone actively involved in golf course design, construction and maintenance.<br />The design process  progresses from the green to the individual hole to the entire course.  Detailed technical information is well integrated with aesthetic and  theoretical concepts making the entire book interesting &amp;  readable.<br />The book is packed with color photos of individual holes to  illustrate design concepts, sites under construction and wonderful  historical documents. The technical drawings &amp; plans are well done and  very useful.<br />This book is a great example of making a technical manual a  joy to read. Any golfer who appreciates the background of the course he or  she is playing on will love it.	1999-10-14
2777799:US	52918997	R1CALUAZ62GO25	0866228969	165308130	Dr. Burgess's Atlas of Marine Aquarium Fishes	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Most comprehensive fish review	This is a must-have book for anyone seeking to setup &amp; maintain a salt-water marine aquarium. There are full-color photos and information on over 1900 marine fish, invertebrates &amp; plants.<br />The book starts out  with a basic description of the families of marine fish accompanied by b/w  illustrations. Then the fish are arranged by family &amp; displayed three  per page in color. Both common &amp; scientific names are given.<br />Symbols  below each fish give information on food, light, temperament, tank setup,  swimming habits, size &amp; family number. There are also great sections on  aquarium setup, fish care, diseases &amp; their prevention.<br />Conveniently  there are 3 indices. One is for aquarium setup. The others list marine life  by either scientific or common name. Whether you are an experienced marine  aquarist or have yet to set one up this is the book for you.	1999-10-06
2777968:US	52918997	RDV9KPC7GASQ9	1892041073	970771891	Monument	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Packed with beautiful b/w phots of monuments	This is a fascinating look at ancient monuments &amp; breathtaking natural landscapes. These b/w photos capture the essence of some of the most remarkable places on Earth. The photos stand on their own with only brief  captions.<br />In the natural world towering icebergs &amp; rock formations  stand like impressive sculptures. The geysers of Yellowstone erupt &amp;  the huge waterfalls of Canada come thundering down.<br />You view the grand  pyramids, stone sculptures, &amp; hieroglyphics of Egypt. Get to see the  Buddhas of Thailand, sacred temples of India, &amp; smiling stone faces of  Cambodia. The clarity and detail in the photos is stunning.<br />My favorites  include the Tetrapylon in Syria &amp; the Cappadocia in Turkey. The  architecture of these is fascinating. The tomb at St. George's Church in  Ethiopia is also quite impressive.	1999-10-06
2778004:US	52918997	RJZSK7MUWB13O	1560987081	378458360	The Hummingbirds of North America	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Great technical guide to hummingbirds	This is a truly fascinating book on hummingbirds. It is a must-have guide for anyone looking for complete technical information on these birds. Numerous charts, maps &amp; b/w illustrations really help.<br />The book  starts out with 24 color plates of paintings showcasing a wide variety of  hummingbird species. Next, hummingbirds are classified &amp; their general  attributes are described.<br />Then distribution is covered. The evolution of  the birds &amp; how they became specialized in also explained. The  following chapters compare anatomy, physiology, biology, ecology &amp;  reproduction of the different species.<br />Over 40 different species are  described in detail, including range, size, habitat, movements &amp;  foraging behavior. Identification keys for both North American &amp;  Mexican hummingbirds are a great bonus.	1999-10-06
2778043:US	52918997	RW5NTUGV1DT1S	1895465060	304789080	Nahanni: River of Gold...River of Dreams	Books	5	9	9	N	N	fascinating journey through the Nahanni River	The Nahanni River, with its surrounding National Park, is one of Canada's truly great and unspoiled wilderness areas. This book takes us on a narrative journey through the varied and spectacular course of the  Nahanni.<br />Perhaps no one knows the Nahanni better than author Neil  Hartling. Living in the Yukon and operating adventure tours of the area, he  is a wonderful story teller equally concerned with publicizing and  protecting this pristine area.<br />This book touches on many disciplines. The  geological formation of the area with its canyons and waterfalls is  described in detail. The folklore and history as well as environmental  concerns for the future are powerfully told.<br />For those interested in  sport and adventure canoeing this is a grand story of one of the world's  prime and elusive venues. The color photos of the majestic Nahanni  landscapes will delight anyone who appreciates natural beauty.	1999-10-06
2778305:US	52918997	R39GPA0TCEYNDG	0896583201	755096353	Swans (Worldlife Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautiful photos,&amp; lots of great info on swans	This is a wonderful book for those interested in learning about swans. It is packed with many beautiful full-color photos. They show the swans flying, preening themselves, caring for their young, or just gliding along  the water.<br />First the 8 swan species are described in detail. This  includes information on their physical traits, population and distribution.  There are some great maps in the back that show their locations as  well.<br />Next, their feeding habits &amp; migration are explained. The book  then details the swan breeding conduct and the perils they face in everyday  life. The final chapters discuss the exploitation of swans &amp;  conservation efforts.<br />Above all, this book captures the legendary beauty  of the swan in its many wonderful color photos. It is a truly fascinating  book and would make a great gift for any wildlife enthusiast.	1999-10-06
2778433:US	52918997	R19AESDB0H49O4	3882440503	761627577	Aquarium Atlas, Vol. 1	Books	4	50	53	N	N	Most complete information of 600 freshwater fish	This book contains the most complete information on over 600 of the most common freshwater aquarium fishes &amp; over 100 plants. Large, clear color photos of each fish and plant make browsing a pleasure.<br />I really liked  the plant section. There is information on physical characteristics,  aquarium conditions &amp; difficulty keeping. They are grouped by family  &amp; separated from the fish for easy reference.<br />Conveniently, this  book uses detailed text instead of symbols to describe the fish &amp;  aquarium conditions. Some information includes habitat, behavior, feeding,  breeding, physical characteristics, maintenance &amp; difficulty  keeping.<br />Both scientific &amp; common names are given &amp; the fish are  grouped by family. Good general information on caring for the fish as well  setting up &amp; maintaining the aquarium is also included.	1999-10-06
2782558:US	52918997	R1WY27J6K1Y27D	1567997457	942142841	Fountains and Cascades (For Your Garden)	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Great idea book with Beautiful photos of fountains	This is a wonderful book featuring a wide variety of beautiful fountains for all types of gardens. The book is in full-color and most photos are full-page size. You'll find many unique ideas here to fit any size  garden.<br />The book starts out with photos of formal fountains and springs.  Then images focus on integrating the fountain into the garden or adding  plants around it for accent. Captions below describe the fountain &amp;  point out its special features.<br />My favorite fountains include a woman  holding a small bowl that falls onto a circle of rocks. I also liked a  colorful Spanish influenced fountain with four frogs shooting water to the  center.<br />This book is not meant to teach how to make or install a  fountain. Rather it is an idea book. I found the examples here  inspirational &amp; they were very helpful in choosing a fountain for my  garden.	1999-09-28
2782577:US	52918997	R3A0MUQF8YADGM	1886947317	686808995	The Golden Age of Golf Design	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great history, photographs,&amp; biographies	This is a wonderful book for anyone with an interest in golf course design and construction or in the history of the game itself. First and foremost the book is about the people who shaped the game.<br />Over 30 designers  active from 1890-1940 are profiled with biographies, contributions to golf  and examples of their work. Many never before published photographs are  highlights of the book.<br />You will see great views of the classic courses  with scenes under construction and during play, and such unusual hazards as  furrowed bunkers and chocolate drop mounds. Many original designers'  drawings are also included.<br />A series of original paintings adds color and  life to some of the legendary holes. This is fascinating reading that will  immerse you in the history of the great golf courses that are as viable  today as when they were created.	1999-09-28
2782734:US	52918997	R1KEOP8AD869KM	0871921782	704270041	Maskmaking	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Wonderful, book for all ages &amp; skill levels	This is a wonderful book that can teach anyone how to easily make beautiful masks. It is especially nice for teachers &amp; parents for exploring maskmaking with children of all ages because of sections  featuring easily made masks.<br />The book starts out with a brief history of  masks as art. A vast array of techniques are shown using a variety of  easily found materials. These may include balloons, clay, plaster,  papier-mch&eacute;, wire, buckram, &amp; celastic.<br />Each maskmaking method  includes a complete materials list &amp; is demonstrated with b/w photos  and easy-to-follow step-by-step instructions. At the back there is a great  chapter on creatively fishing the masks &amp; then protecting  them.<br />Example masks in b/w &amp; a small color gallery in the middle are  nice bonuses. This is great book for anyone wanting to create unique masks.	1999-09-28
2782786:US	52918997	R39P8FKWQTUEZB	1561582328	843873328	The Exotic Garden: Designing with Tropical Plants in Almost Any Climate	Books	5	49	49	N	N	A great guide to tropical plants with great advice	If you love tropical plants, but don't live in a tropical climate this is the book for you. It is in full-color with many beautiful photos.  The book starts out with lots of design advice on color, texture &amp; form.<br />Next, tropical plants used in borders, beds &amp; containers are  discussed in detail.  Then growing the plants is explained. There are  step-by-step instructions on planting, maintenance, pest control, &amp;  propagation.<br />There is a great plant glossary listing over 100 tropical  plant in the back. It contains information on origin, height, best growing  condition, design uses, &amp; overwintering advice. A small photo &amp;  written description are also given.<br />The plants are arranged by family.  An index listing common names to family names is will help you locate a  specific plant. A resource list is also a nice bonus. With this book you  can have plants you would never have imagined.	1999-09-28
2782962:US	52918997	R3JF1GO2LC43BZ	1580110630	357362658	Easy-Care Guide to Houseplants	Books	5	71	72	N	N	Excellent book packed with great info	This is an excellent book for learning to grow &amp; care for houseplants. It is full-color and packed with photos.  It is loaded with advice on basic care &amp; propagation, as well as elimination of pests &amp; diseases.<br />I loved how it helped me choose a proper container for each plant &amp;  the appropriate room for its needs. I was also impressed that there were  step-by-step instructions for installing supports for hanging plants &amp;  a growing stand.<br />An indispensable plant glossary in the back lists the  plants by family. A photo is included along with common name, scientific  name, size, description &amp; propagation methods. Light, soil, &amp;  temperature needs are also here.  The differences between the plant  families are explained as well &amp; many of the plants that make them up  are listed. It even gives you decorating hints. Before you buy any  houseplants, you must read this book.	1999-09-28
2783040:US	52918997	RVYEZL9DL22Q8	1552092909	936558007	Coral Seas	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Spectacular photos,Must-have book	This is a must-have coffee table book for any sea life or aquarium enthusiast. It is packed with spectacular full-color photos of the many beautiful, unusual &amp; fascinating creatures of the reef.<br />A vast array  of fish &amp; invertebrates are included. Some of my favorites include a  multicolored shore crab, bright red nudibranch &amp; a translucent blue  jellyfish. I also love the blue &amp; white aeolid sea slug.<br />The  odd-looking weedy scorpionfish, fingered dragonet &amp; snapping shrimps  really grab your attention. The numerous corals &amp; octopi are also a  treat.  All the images are clear &amp; many give very close up looks at the  organisms.<br />Captions below give brief information on the creatures, such  as defense methods, eating habits &amp; mating rituals. Each is also  identified by its both its Latin &amp; common name. This is a gorgeous and  informative book.	1999-09-28
2783113:US	52918997	R1JEON1LIN8D4U	0891456260	849131470	Collectors Encyclopedia Of Milk Glass Identification/Values	Books	5	56	57	N	N	Wonderful guide to milk glass	This is a wonderful guide to the possibilities in milk glass collecting. I found much here that I never knew existed and the full color photos of each item are beautiful.<br />The book is arranged by subject matter. Data on each  item includes manufacturer, size, dates of production &amp; current market  value range. Some of my favorites are the kitchen utensils, lamps &amp;  beautifully decorated plates.<br />There is a wealth of detailed information  for collectors here. The introduction has some general collecting tips plus  how to get a feel for old glass vs. new. Detailed histories of all the  major producers follows.<br />Finally, the catalog pages of more common recent  lines by Westmoreland, Fenton and Imperial are reproduced with a value  guide. This book really helped me understand and appreciate what milk glass  is all about.	1999-09-28
2791415:US	52918997	R160AD6H76RWG4	0376012579	829155071	Ideas for Great Home Decorating (Great Series)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The book to get of remodeling or redecorating	This is definitely the book to get if you're planning to remodel, redecorate or even build a new home. There are lots of color photos featuring beautiful &amp; unique ideas. This book makes decorating easy  &amp; enjoyable.<br />The book starts out by introducing design principles  &amp; styles. Then you get an in-depth look at windows, window treatments,  wall coverings, &amp; flooring. I love the many facts &amp; tips sections  that explain the pros &amp; cons of materials.<br />The book also takes you  through planning all the rooms in your house with questionnaires, layout  ideas &amp; lighting considerations. The tips on ideal shelving dimensions  &amp; ergonomics were very helpful.<br />Throughout the book there are also  over 20 great ideas sections for various areas. Some include sunrooms,  storage, &amp; finishing touches. Budgeting, drawing plans, &amp; hiring a  professional are covered at the end.	1999-09-13
2791428:US	52918997	R26L5YBO23CC6I	069620732X	247573899	Step-By-Step Pillows & Cushions (Do-it-yourself Series)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Make professional looking pillows with ease	This book is full of photographs &amp; step-by-step instructions, so even a beginner could learn to make professional looking pillows and cushions. Chapters on basic sewing techniques and essential equipment are  included.<br />The book discusses fabric colors and designs; fabric types,  forms and fillers; and shapes and styles. Cube &amp; ball shape pillows and  crayon cushions are among the interesting and unusual shapes you can learn  to make.<br />Decorative finishes are detailed in simple instructions and  photos. You will learn to make borders, ruffles, braids, cords, tassels,  piping, ties and buttons.  The basics of crewelwork, needlepoint, and  applique are also covered.<br />Full-page color photos show many creative  ideas. A glossary and index are also included. The more than 50 projects  make this a fun and useful book for anyone wanting to add some decorative  touches to their home.	1999-09-13
2791442:US	52918997	R1Z6ZAJB97DK25	1887678077	512586160	Please Help Yourself: Ideas and step-by-step recipes for elegant entertaining	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Delicous meals for entertaining	This is a wonderful book for anyone who entertains. The step by step instructions and ideas for preparing ahead allow you to present an elegant selection with remarkably little time &amp; stress.<br />The book starts out  with an explanation of ingredients, &amp; terms. Recipes follow &amp;  include meal plans for barbecues, cocktail parties &amp; buffet-style  meals. Hints &amp; tips for each occasional are also conveniently included.<br />All the recipes list preparation &amp; cooking time. There is a great  variety here for groups of 6 to 20 people. Whether the recipe can be  doubled, halved, or frozen is also mentioned.<br />My favorite is the beef  stroganoff. I also throw a lot of parties &amp; my guests raved about the  chicken liver pate, ratatouille, &amp; eggplant soup.  The orange charlotte  russe was also a big hit.	1999-09-13
2791636:US	52918997	R3FFH3VD1S1GWK	0812233573	329601179	Dictionary of Glass	Books	5	96	99	N	N	Ultimate glass reference book	Do not be misled by the title. This is more a detailed encyclopedia of glass than a simple dictionary, with many in depth articles covering the history, art and technology of glass working.<br />All forms of glass craft  are represented, including blowing, lamp work, stained glass, etching and  engraving. Raw materials, chemicals, tools and techniques for industrial  and artistic uses are described.<br />Styles &amp; important historical pieces  are also covered. The book is well illustrated with b/w photos &amp;  diagrams. Two sections of color plates showcase some beautiful &amp;  unusual artistic pieces in a wide variety of techniques.<br />Lists of  periodicals, suppliers, societies, schools and museums provide a great  source for further information. This is a complete and essential reference  for anyone interested in glass.	1999-09-13
2791650:US	52918997	R1NRZSB4DWT0B2	0764551183	602309363	Quilting For Dummies? (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	5	121	129	N	N	Great for beginner	Quilts have played a role in peoples' lives for centuries and are an important part of our history. Author Cheryl Fall's love and passion for quilting is clear as she explains this time honored art in simple  step-by-step instructions.<br />This book is organized into five parts,  beginning with the history of quilting and techniques, fabrics &amp;  patterns.  Basic sewing skills are reviewed, especially the basting,  stitching and binding needed to finish a quilt in style.<br />There are great  diagrams and charts throughout the book that show exactly how everything  goes together and a section of color plates shows some beautiful finished  pieces. Sixteen projects are included to get you started.<br />The book  concludes with resource guides to suppliers, publications, museums and  internet sites. This is the first essential book for the beginner, but the  experienced quilter will find much of value here as well.	1999-09-13
2791720:US	52918997	R1NSJV076Z7QBF	0895299267	647649790	The Stevia Cookbook: Cooking with Nature's Calorie-Free Sweetener	Books	5	75	84	N	N	The best stevia cookbook	This is absolutely the best book on cooking with stevia. There are over 100 delicious recipes using this remarkable substance that won't cause cavities and suitable for everyone including diabetics &amp; children.<br />The author starts out with a history of stevia. Next, safety, health  benefits and the many forms it comes in are discussed. Then tips on using  stevia; its pros &amp; cons; &amp; conversion rates are given.<br />Recipes  follow. These include breakfasts, salads, dressings, main dishes, toppings,  cakes, pies, candy, cookies, ice cream, puddings, &amp; beverages. Some of  my favorite recipes are the sweet cream corn &amp; lemonade.<br />I also love  the apple crepes, chocolate muffins, &amp; chocolate cream cheese frosting.  Unlike other stevia cookbook, this one contains resource list on where to  buy stevia &amp; other rare ingredients that are used.	1999-09-13
2791725:US	52918997	R329BJHJZLU1IA	0891457011	148311338	Classic Plastic Model Kits: Identification & Value Guide	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Over 1,000 models referenced	This book really takes me back to my childhood. Seeing the prices, my only wish is that I had kept some of these pristine in the box rather than building, trading and ultimately losing track of them.<br />The emphasis here  is on figure, theme and specialty modles rather than the standard cars and  military models. Covering the '50's-'70's; Sci-Fi, horror, movie, TV and  hot rods are the popular subjects here.<br />For each model there is a color  photo of the box and sometimes a built model, manufacturer, date, scale and  estimated value boxed or built. There is also a brief history of model  manufacturing.<br />There are nearly 1000 models here including my favorites,  those wacky cars of George Barris and Ed Roth. This is a great guide for  the serious collector or someone who just wants to reminisce about those  hours of model building fun.	1999-09-13
2791732:US	52918997	R2FMUUCMIE2OCL	1887678034	277607542	Lunch is on the Table!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	sophisticated elegant dinning for lunch or light dinner	This wonderful book contains a wide variety of sophisticated recipes for making the  midday meal &amp; is a great experience in elegant dining. It also makes the preparation easier than you would imagine.<br />The book  starts out with an explanation of ingredients, &amp; terms as well as some  helpful tips. There are over 40 complete lunches for all occasions.  Many  varieties of salads, soups, seafood &amp; pasta are presented.<br />Most  meals quite large. Most contain a main dish, vegetable, &amp; dessert.  Conveniently, all recipes list preparation &amp; cooking time with ideas  for preparing ahead. Whether the recipe can be doubled, halved, or frozen  is also mentioned.<br />Some of my favorite dishes include the beef-filled  mushrooms, french onion soup, &amp; crab quiche.  Most meals would also  make a great light dinner.	1999-09-13
2791759:US	52918997	R2HN4MIE6WTWB6	0917953401	287336980	Uncommon Places: A Celebration of Appalachian Trail Country	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Absolutely spectacular landscapes	This is an absolutely gorgeous coffee table book featuring a wide variety of scenic landscapes of the Appalachian Trail. The spectacular photos, rich with color, take you on a journey through this beautiful area.<br />Muench's  trademark photography of water in motion is awesome. There are peaceful  ponds, trickling streams, raging rivers, &amp; cascading waterfalls.  Brilliantly colored autumn leaves &amp; fog covered mountains are also in  abundance.<br />You also get a close up look at a wide variety of flowers in  bloom including iris, trillium, &amp; lady's slippers. There are enchanting  lush green forests and towering rocks that stand like huge sculptures in  the rugged landscape.<br />There is also an introduction with a history of  the Appalachian Trail. Each photo takes an entire page with location  information is given below it. Get this book &amp; I promise you won't be  disappointed.	1999-09-13
2791808:US	52918997	R6XFT4OVVHF3X	090621288X	64660454	Fractal Cuts	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Make interesting geometric pop-ups	This is a wonderful book that will help older children &amp; adults alike make interesting geometric pop-ups. Though the designs are complex &amp; take some patience, they are definitely worth the effort.<br />The book starts  out by explaining fractals &amp; teaching how to draw some of them. Ten  card projects follow grouped from easiest to hardest. You are supposed to  cut up the book, but you can make copies if you want.<br />Clear,  step-by-step instructions &amp; a template are given for each card. Pages  with printed patterns that can be cut &amp; used to make the cards are also  included. For each one, ideas to make the card fancier are shown.<br />Making  these cards truly brings a sense of accomplishment. They also make  beautiful &amp; unique gifts. I have given them to many friends and they  have been very delighted &amp; impressed.	1999-09-13
2791878:US	52918997	R19I61GMLPBK8I	0942053230	852910240	Arizona in Your Future: The Complete Guide for Future Arizonans: Job-Seekers, Retirees and Snowbirds	Books	5	93	102	N	N	Complete relcation, &amp; job seeking guide for arizona	This is a complete relocation guide for job-seekers, retirees and snowbirds. It is straightforward and factual and will tell you everything you wanted to know about the Grand Canyon State without advertising  hype.<br />The first section is packed with details about Arizona life,  including history, weather, government &amp; taxes, schools, and retirement  communities. A great feature is the hundreds of contact addresses for more  info.<br />Then Arizona's very distinct and different regions are discussed.  For each area the major cities and towns are profiled with climate,  economic and recreational details. There are top 10 lists for the best  locations for various needs.<br />This is an essential book for anyone  seriously considering a move. It is a no-nonsense guide packed with useful  information and it will surely pay for itself many times over.	1999-09-13
2791890:US	52918997	R3D8SY7Z4TJXCO	1887678050	696495985	Dinner is Served!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delicious Upscale meals for entertaining	This is a wonderful book for anyone who has ever wondered what to make for dinner. The recipes are delicious and range from family dinners to upscale meals for entertaining, emphasizing French cuisine.<br />The book starts out  with an explanation of ingredients, &amp; terms as well as some helpful  tips. Over 50 complete dinners follow with detailed step-by-step  instructions. A variety of sauces are also listed separately.<br />Most meals  contain a main dish, vegetable, bread, &amp; dessert. Conveniently, all  recipes list preparation &amp; cooking time. Whether the recipe can be  doubled, halved, or frozen is also mentioned.<br />Some of my favorite  recipes include spinach-filled crepes &amp; baked red snapper fillet.  The  rum cr&egrave;me pie, cherries jubilee, &amp; chilled lemon souffl&eacute; are simply  divine &amp; make  great desserts for dinner parties.	1999-09-13
2795444:US	52918997	R3J2HG2KPJMF5O	0761513086	505212844	The Absolute Beginner's Cookbook, Revised: Or How Long Do I Cook a 3-Minute Egg?	Books	5	153	157	N	N	No-fail recipes for everday meals	The book teaches you everything you need to know from how to hard-boil an egg to stir frying broccoli. It makes are great gift of any beginning cook.<br />Recipes include breakfast foods, eggs, breads, soups, sandwiches,  salads, main dishes, vegetables, desserts, &amp; appetizers.  There is no  gourmet fare here, just the delicious uncomplicated meals for everyday  people.<br />Some of my favorite desserts are the apple dumplings &amp; easy  lemon chiffon pie. I enjoyed the oven pot-roast, meatballs, chili, &amp;  pork chops as well. I know I will never get bored with 8 different potato  recipes.<br />I also loved the one-step lasagna. It's great because you don't  have to cook the noodles before baking, making it quick &amp; easy to make.  The never-fail cheese souffl&eacute; &amp; salmon pate will impress dinner guests  without hours of frustration.	1999-09-06
2795467:US	52918997	R32I1AWJC1R6X8	1888952008	375968721	Specialties of the House: A Country Inn and Bed & Breakfast Cookbook	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent B&amp;B resource &amp; delicious recipes	This huge book is an excellent resource for location a B&amp;B and is packed with over 900 delicious, time-tested recipes. From family favorites to international delights this book as something for everyone.<br />A vast  array of recipes include French toast, pancakes, crepes, eggs, breads,  cereals, cookies, cakes, pies, salads, soups, sauces, &amp; beverages.  Appetizers, fruits, vegetables, &amp; main dishes are included as well.<br />Recipes are arranged by state and then by B&amp;B. There is a brief  description of each B&amp;B along with contact information and one to four  recipes. The index lists recipes both by title &amp; food type making  things easy to find.<br />Some of my favorite recipes include sourdough  cinnamon waffles, cheese soda bread &amp; orange fluff beverage. I also  enjoyed the green chilies souffl&eacute;. My dinner guests loved . chicken  casserole &amp;  the buttermilk pecan pie.	1999-09-06
2795578:US	52918997	RU851FJLGHZHY	1579900585	511495419	The Ceramic Design Book: A Gallery of Contemporary Work (Lark Ceramics Book)	Books	5	43	48	N	N	Beatiful &amp; imaginative artwork to inspire	This is a beautiful book with many unique &amp; imaginative ceramic designs that will provide inspiration for ceramic artists of all levels. It also makes a great gift or a delightful coffee table book for any art  lover<br />The book is in full-color displaying one to three art pieces per  page. Both handbuilt &amp; wheel-thrown ceramics are shown. Captions  provide the artist's name, date completed, &amp; size as well as materials  &amp; techniques used.<br />Some of my favorite pieces includes a raku crackle  jar &amp; carved tree tiles. I love both the plate with waves &amp; a  teapot, and another with egrets on it. I also enjoyed a hand-built  multi-colored teapot.<br />Several eclectic figures, a humorous bird  sculpture, &amp; a huge mosaic-style dragonfly screen also caught my eye.  This is an indispensable reference tool packed with great ideas &amp; a  must-have book for any serious ceramic artist.	1999-09-06
2795658:US	52918997	R3O5NNXY0D9OTD	0896583821	936744027	Hummingbirds, Jewels in Flight (Wildlife)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Essential reference of the life of hummer, great phots	This is an essential reference on the life of hummingbirds. Over 100 beautiful color photos show many species of these elegant birds eating, resting, &amp; in mid-flight.<br />The book starts out with the author's  personal experiences with hummingbirds. It then explains the birds'  history, classification, distribution, &amp; habitat, comparing the various  types of hummingbirds.  How they fly, what &amp; how they eat, mating  rituals &amp; nest building are then detailed.  Conservation, migration,  tracking, &amp; banding are covered as well. There even a whole section on  hummingbird meccas.<br />Finally, the book gives tips on how to attract the  birds. Types of plants that attract hummingbirds are listed for 6 different  regions, with both common &amp; Latin names. The bird types native to each  region are also given.	1999-09-06
2795676:US	52918997	R1AS4VXZKR680R	1564142604	34959024	50 Fabulous Places to Retire in America	Books	5	56	57	N	N	Great for finding the perfect place to retire	This is the wonderful book for finding the perfect place to retire. You learn about each city's climate, costs, taxes, real estate, crime, culture, recreation, transportation, education, medical care &amp; job market.<br />The  overview section is very helpful for getting a feel for the city as well  recognizing both its positives &amp; drawbacks. A listing of newspapers, a  realtor, &amp; the Chamber of Commerce with contact information is also  great aid.<br />Since a great climate is important to me, I also found the  detailed data on weather helpful. It includes seasonal high/low temp, avg.  rain/snow inches, avg. # of rainy days, &amp; avg. humidity. The # of days  below 32 &amp; over 90 is also included.<br />As a bonus this book also  helps you figure out how much money you will need &amp; how to make it work  for you. Tips on moving successfully are also included. If you're thinking  about retiring, or even just moving, this is the book you.	1999-09-06
2795793:US	52918997	R2FUKFKGASKRHY	1580170978	926384962	Henna from Head to Toe!: Body Decorating/Hair Coloring/Medicinal Uses	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Best book on henna	This is the best book I have found on henna, especially for beginners. Packed with  color photos &amp; unique design ideas from many different cultures, it is truly inspirational.<br />It provides step-by-step  instructions accompanied by illustrations that guide you through the entire  henna preparation &amp; application process. Coloring hair &amp;  conditioning nails are also demonstrated.<br />Unlike many mehedi books, it  also guides you through making the designs. Some of my favorite designs  include a sunflower necklace, dragonfly back piece, orange blossom band,  floral hand &amp; lotus tapestry.<br />Historical information, henna wedding  traditions &amp; a gallery are a nice bonus. A resource area listing henna  suppliers &amp; artists is also included. This book makes a great wedding  present.	1999-09-06
2795815:US	52918997	R1WMOY6BALIEFW	0883631571	606126895	Spectacular China	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Beautiful china coffee table book	This is a wonderful coffee table book for anyone interested in China. It is a large format with beautiful photography including several 3-page fold-outs. China's natural beauty, architecture &amp; culture are all here.<br />You see get to see ancient stone sculptures, the majestic Imperial Place  &amp; the seemingly endless Great Wall. Breathtaking waterfalls, serene  lakes dotted with pagodas &amp; mysterious mountains enveloped in clouds  follow.<br />I was very impressed the many golden Buddhas &amp; a boat made of  marble. I also loved the peaceful gardens filled with water, rocks &amp;  trees.  The native people in traditional dress are fascinating as  well.<br />My favorite of the entire city of Beijing lit with fireworks is  nothing short of spectacular. The text and detailed captions provide a  thorough background for the photos. This is a book you can get lost in for  hours.	1999-09-06
2796001:US	52918997	ROLY8TA1LLEEF	1568304668	456349887	Adobe Photoshop 5.0: Classroom in a Book (Classroom in a Book Series)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good for absolute begginers	This is a good book for those who have never used Photoshop before and are looking for a book that just tells you simply what to do. Step-by-step tutorials along with the files on the CD help you to learn the basics in no  time.<br />Areas covered include working with selections, pen tool  techniques, layers, painting, editing, masks, channels, photo retouching,  web publication, getting accurate color &amp; two-color image  preparation.<br />Combining Photoshop &amp; Illustrator is also explained. If  you have Image Ready, you will be pleased to find that it is covered in  depth. It is mostly in b/w, but has a small color section featuring  examples &amp; a toolbox overview.<br />Tool &amp; menu selections are shown  side by side with results to reinforce the learning process. The book  guides you through using the program and getting results without being  overly technical.	1999-09-06
2796002:US	52918997	R3FBFZ2HNHCTY	1564963500	426185881	The Paper Jewelry Book	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Make beautiful jewerly inexpensively &amp; easily	This is a wonderful book that shows you how to make stunning jewelry inexpensively. The clear step-by-step instructions accompanied by color photos make creating these works of art easy.<br />The techniques include  rolling &amp; stringing paper beads, making strip paper-mache, &amp;  decoupage as well as paper weaving &amp; folding. There are even basic  instructions for making your own paper.<br />Some great projects include a  hair slide, flapper's bead necklace, triple strand bracelet, basket weave  barrette, pinwheel earrings, floral decoupage locket, lady pin, kite  pendant, origami fold bracelet, &amp; golden braid choker.<br />Several  beautiful paper samples that you can make color copies of or tear out &amp;  use are a nice bonus. I recommend this book for anyone. Projects are simple  enough for children, yet rewarding for adults.	1999-09-06
2796049:US	52918997	R3SLP512STUS9C	0764909320	325913419	Clearly Inspired: Contemporary Glass and Its Origins	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Provides ideas &amp; inspiration for glass artists	This is a great book for any glass artist seeking ideas &amp; inspiration. It also makes a great coffee table book. It is in full-color &amp; features a wide variety of beautiful, fused, blown, painted, lampworked &amp;  stained glass artwork.<br />Artwork is arranged by artist. Most have more than  one example of their artwork shown, along with biographical information.  Captions list the artist, title, date, size, techniques used, &amp;  photographer.<br />One of my favorite pieces is a nude woman lying down &amp;  resting her hands on her face. I also enjoyed two unique dragon stemmed  glasses &amp; a blue sand-carved vase with white flowers. The dragonfly  bowl is also quite impressive.<br />A history of glass art with photos of  antique pieces provides a prelude to the marvelous contemporary work that  makes this book such a delight. The selections are outstanding and all  beautifully photographed.	1999-09-06
2798910:US	52918997	RWJYCSZF2FOMA	0817245669	349359834	Giant Pandas (Untamed World)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating facts, conservation info, cute color photos	This would be a great addition to any home or library. It is in full-color on glossy stock. Fascinating facts, conservation information, a glossary, &amp; websites of interest are all included here.<br />The pandas' features  are described in detail including information on size, shape, fur, &amp;  their special adaptations. Photos of these adorable animals show them  eating, resting &amp; playing. There is even one of a tiny newborn.<br />Classification, social activities, mating, communication, habitat, &amp;  eating habits are also explained. The birth &amp; care of panda cubs is  documented as well. There are even folklore stories about these remarkable  animals.<br />There are facts about the pandas' status &amp; a map showing  their locations. Since the pandas are vanishing, a discussion of what is  being done to save them &amp; what you can do to help is noted as well.	1999-08-31
2799044:US	52918997	RAQ6NM4PIFH4Q	1856262863	918040097	The Beginner's Guide to Colour Psychology	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Helps you really understand how colors affect you	I bought this book mostly for advice on decorating my home. I chose the right book. It has helped me understand colors that will suit me &amp; make my guests feel welcome.<br />The book provides background on color science  &amp; our perceptions of different colors. It then explains the four color  palettes corresponding to the seasons and how these groups in our  environment affect our lives.<br />Next you discover the colors &amp;  palette best suited to your personality through testing &amp; detailed  descriptions. Using this information, I discovered clothing colors that  really bring out my personality &amp; help me be more productive.<br />There  is also a section on color in commerce which explains the concepts behind  color in advertising. This is a much deeper subject than I had imagined and  this book effectively explains the significance of the colors around us.	1999-08-31
2799081:US	52918997	RJL8FGM0XS5N5	0945005229	110721619	3: Gemstones of North America	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Detailed compilation of discoveris of NA gemstones	This is an update featuring all new information which has come to light since vol. II was published in 1976. It is a detailed compilation of discoveries and occurrences of all North American gemstones.<br />The book is  organized simply with a brief description of each stone followed by details  from each geographical region in which it has been found. Detailed  bibliographical references follow each entry, facilitating further  study.<br />There is a dazzling section of 16 color plates highlighting the  most spectacular recent discoveries. An array of heat-treated sapphire  colors, precious opal, exquisite turquoise &amp; a beautiful elephant  tourmaline carving are featured.<br />Of special interest are recent diamond  discoveries and an extensive section on the varieties and cultivation of  pearls. This is an indispensable reference for anyone interested in the  wide variety of gemstones in North America.	1999-08-31
2799130:US	52918997	R3N6NAP84ME429	1571200649	273169184	The Photo Transfer Handbook: Snap It, Print It, Stitch It	Books	5	82	84	N	N	step-by-step instructions, nice projects &amp; great galleries	This is a wonderful book for anyone who has ever wanted to transfer a photo. The book is in full-color with many photos. Clear step-by-step instructions are included for both the transfer process &amp;  projects.<br />Instructions for both creating &amp; applying a transfer using  either a laser copier or computer printer are covered. Tips on choosing  images, troubleshooting, adding &amp; removing color are also  included.<br />Next, there are inspirational galleries of beautiful family  quilts, studio quilts, &amp; creative clothing. Captions below each piece  describe the creation process.  One of my favorites is a Tuscany castle  scene.<br />A few projects follow, including a photo pillow &amp; three  quilts. There is also a great resource list that includes many places to  buy the transfer paper, as well as mail order photo transfer &amp; film  services.	1999-08-31
2799139:US	52918997	R32U2ZRJYCD566	0393036901	672086631	Apples	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Adorable, informative &amp; fascinating	This is an adorable, informative &amp; fascinating book all about apples. The author does a great job of explaining how apple species have diminished, how retailers offer old and  waxed apples and how to buy good  apples<br />The best apple varieties for drying, sauce, pie, and cider are  listed and the processes of making ciders, applejack  &amp; apple brandy  are explained. There are even recipes for making apple leathers &amp; apple  butter.<br />A detailed description is included for over 90 varieties of  apples. Information includes the apple's origin, flavor, uses, harvesting  time,  &amp; how well it stores. An elegant watercolor painting is included  alongside each description.<br />A small dictionary &amp; sources for mail  order tress are also included. This book makes a nice housewarming or  wedding gift. It is a must for any cook serious about apples.	1999-08-31
2799156:US	52918997	R1R3ZG9YEM65YJ	1880656019	497592972	The Japanese Home Stylebook: Architectural Details and Motifs	Books	5	83	84	N	N	many great illustrations &amp; ideas	This is a wonderful book for anyone wanting to decorate their home or yard in the Japanese style. It is packed with 1,800 black &amp; white illustrations of Japanese architectural elements.<br />The book starts out by  describing the design elements of a traditional Japanese home.  It is then  divided into sections including screens, fusuma sliding panels, windows,  doors, transoms, ceilings, tokonoma, &amp; shelves.<br />Outdoor elements  such as fences, railings, verandas, &amp; stone-paths are also covered.  Decorative patterns including family crests, woven &amp; lattice designs  are shown along with fusuma paper designs.<br />Being able to see so many  design ideas a once has really been a big help in planning my new home.  Everything is so beautiful. I especially like the transoms with images of  nature such as cranes, fish &amp; flowers.	1999-08-31
2799241:US	52918997	R1OOEX33EQU2PC	0793820782	318482743	Nature Aquarium World, Book 3 (Bk. 3)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Aquariums as a beautiful art form	This book raises aquarium design to an art form. The author, who is also the designer &amp; photographer, draws upon many aspects of nature and represents those scenes within the contained world of the aquarium.<br />Over  40 different designs for large to giant size aquariums are each presented  on a 2-page spread. The enhanced printing of these photos reveals sharp  details and brilliant color.<br />Each aquarium is titled, with the author  describing his source of inspiration and how he interpreted it in the tank.  Size and technical data are given along with a list by scientific name of  all plants &amp; fish used.<br />The use of plants and layout are emphasized  over the fish. An interesting addition is several pages of beautiful  microscopic photos of aquatic plants. This is a unique and inspiring look  at the possibilities in aquarium design.	1999-08-31
2799268:US	52918997	R34XFPCRRWYV81	1888054123	881515166	Pulp Culture: The Art of Fiction Magazines	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderful book of popular culture	This book is a celebration of a unique American body of art and an important part of our popular culture. The pulps were a major form of entertainment with their vibrant covers by artists largely unknown or now  forgotten.<br />The focus is on the art with several large color illustrations  per page. It is fantastic, bold &amp; colorful, it's purpose being to  generate excitement &amp; sell books. The text gives a history of the pulps  and their artists &amp; writers.<br />Several themes predominate on the pulp  covers. There are westerns, detectives, sports, war &amp; jungle stories,  aviation, risqu&eacute; women &amp; damsels in distress. This is also where some  of the best early science fiction art is found.<br />There is a helpful  section of information for collectors and all of the books illustrated are  coded for relative value. This is a wonderful book for anyone interested in  popular art, Americana or collectibles.	1999-08-31
2799271:US	52918997	R146C3H3WGLGH7	0879519339	934807951	The Beauty Bible	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The ultimate beauty book	This is the ultimate beauty book. It includes absolutely everything you need to know about selecting &amp; applying make-up; caring for your hair, skin, teeth, eyes, feet, nails &amp; even proper exercise &amp; nutrition.<br />There are step-by-step instructions for applying make-up, including  simple recipes for beauty treatment. Spiritual health, aromatherapy &amp;  fragrance suggestions are also considered.<br />Other topics include both  surgical &amp; non-surgical cosmetic procedures and how to turn your home  into a health spa. Contact information &amp; descriptions of many spas  throughout the world are provided as well.<br />I love the tips &amp; tricks  and found the tried &amp; tested recommendations on over 1,500 products  very helpful. Cosmetic stores, hair &amp; nail salons and sources for  everything from alternative medicine to image consultants are also listed.	1999-08-31
2799348:US	52918997	R2M427K2UW1PXX	0965728005	352786634	Robert Stivers: Photographs	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Haunting, mysterious, sensual, erotic	This magnificent coffee table book is filled with captivating photos that draw you into Stivers' world. The hazy b/w images range from to erotic and sensual to almost haunting and mysterious.<br />The photographer captures a  wide variety of subjects including people of all ages, babies, body parts  &amp; single objects. Animals including elephants, birds, reptiles &amp;  dogs are also shown.<br />All the photos are printed on one page making it  easy to cut them out and frame them if so desired. Plate numbers are listed  opposite the photos with a list of titles in the back.<br />My favorite images  are those of the women. One is a nude woman holding a knife and another is  suspended. I also enjoyed the leopard &amp; ostrich photos. This intense  book is sure to please any art collector.	1999-08-31
2799413:US	52918997	RVLRZ89IYJTKO	0871923343	89288971	Handmade Books And Cards	Books	5	28	29	N	N	unique projects, step-by-step instructions, for everyone	This book starts out with a brief history and then goes on discusses materials, tools, typography, &amp; printing methods. Instructions for making patterned papers &amp; adding extra decorative touches are also  included.<br />Beginners will love the easier projects with clear step-by-step  instructions accompanied by detailed illustrations, while advanced  bookbinders will find plenty of unique and challenging book designs &amp;  techniques.<br />You learn to make 6 different cards, hardcover albums,  scrolls, fans, blinds, French doors &amp; much more. Many bindings are also  covered including the pamphlet, Japanese stab, crossed ribbon, concertina,  &amp; coptic.<br />The many color &amp; b/w examples are beautiful &amp;  imaginative. They really helped inspire me. A resource list of suppliers,  groups &amp; workshops is a nice bonus. If you can only buy one bookbinding  book, this is the one to get.	1999-08-31
2799421:US	52918997	R3ITEX5KCN60QU	0226736482	528597870	The Year of the Gorilla	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Fascinating story	This is the fascinating story of the author's expedition to study Mountain Gorillas in 1959-60. Told as a detailed narrative, it is as much an adventure story as a scientific analysis.<br />From the riveting first  encounter with a family of gorillas through the identification of several  distinct groups, their daily routine is revealed. The gentleness that  Schaller found dispelled many long held myths about Gorilla  behavior.<br />Beyond the gorillas, this is also the complete story of a  region, its people and other flora and fauna. The issues of preservation of  these animals and their habitat are much the same as those faced  today.<br />This is the documentation of an important pioneering work that  paved the way for Fossey and other researchers who would follow.  Illustrated with photos and maps, it is a compelling read from cover to  cover.	1999-08-31
2799510:US	52918997	R1VPSIC39ZJYV9	0962532940	784569390	Just Inn Time for Breakfast: A Cookbook from the Michigan Lake to Lake Bed and Breakfast Association	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Delicious recipies	This is a wonderful book filled with delicious recipes. They use common ingredients &amp; most are fairly easy to make.  Recipes include French toast, pancakes, cereals, fruits, beverages, desserts, muffins, &amp; baked  goods.<br />Egg, meat &amp; cheese dishes including souffl&eacute;s, quiches, &amp;  casseroles are here as well. Each recipe has a description of the B&amp;B  it is from along with contact information  An index also lists the inns by  city.<br />Some of my favorite recipes include the peach coffee cake, morning  pizza, &amp; broccoli bake. I also enjoyed the carrot cookies. My overnight  guest loved the surprise French toast made with cream cheese &amp; pecans.<br />I really love the section in the back filled with household hints. I  found these very useful as they really do help save time &amp; money. They  have also helped make guests at my at home feel more welcome.	1999-08-31
2804622:US	52918997	R1QD2B4I89MS0G	0855328797	627147187	Classic Glass Painting: Inspirations from the Past	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Wonderful introduction to glass painting	This is a wonderful introduction to the basics of glass painting. Color photo and step-by-step instructions help guide you through a wide variety of techniques.<br />The book starts out by quickly demonstrating many basic  techniques as well as covering  safety &amp; materials. Some techniques  include outlining, marbling, blending, adding gems,  frosting, gilding,  &amp; using a self-adhesive lead or gel.<br />There are many great  multi-cultural projects for learning each technique. These include an Asian  floral plate, Tiffany window panel, Celtic knotwork frame, Victorian rose  bowl, Egyptian bookmark, &amp; a mosaic box.<br />Templates accompany each  project. There are a few extra templates given for each style as well.  Though it may take some practice to create a masterpiece, this is  definitely the book to get you there.	1999-08-22
2804669:US	52918997	RXRZMN4P3LKNL	0883637987	999067976	Wildlife of North America	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great coffe table book	This is a wonderful coffee table book. It gives you a comprehensive look a wide variety of animals from many different habitats including forests, mountains, plains, deserts, ponds, rivers, seas &amp; the arctic.<br />An  adorable baby bears climb a tree. A porcupine mother kisses her child &amp;  a mother blue jay lovingly feeds her young. You get a close-up look at an  owl stretching its wings &amp; a glimpse of a cougar in mid-air ready to  pounce.<br />Sun-dappled dolphins are seen diving in the sea &amp; a large  group of walruses are shown wading to shore. There is even an amusing photo  of a polar bear resting on its back. Over 100 species are pictured in  all.<br />The finest work of 19 photographers spans the continent. The  captions are detailed and informative and there is additional text in each  section going into further detail on a few of the animals featured.	1999-08-22
2804721:US	52918997	R2WF0WTG8NPYN7	0811822184	807959828	Snow Monkeys	Books	5	15	15	N	N	These monkey will touch your heart &amp; make you laugh	This book tells the story of a year in the life of a troop of Japanese snow monkeys, as they cope with the seasons and raise their families. The often humorous and sometimes touching images will steal your heart away.<br />The adorable monkeys dance in the snow &amp; bask in the sun. They climb  &amp; swing from trees. They chew leaves &amp; joyfully play with  snowballs. They splash in the water &amp; meticulously groom each  other.<br />The young cuddle in their mother's arms &amp; suckle at a their  breast. Their almost human-like expressions and actions are captivating.  You feel like you are in personal contact with the monkeys as you flip the  color photo packed pages.<br />As a bonus, pictures of a wide array of  Japanese monkeys as well as information on their distribution, diet, &amp;  social life are located in the back This book is a great way to get a  close-up look at the snow monkeys &amp; experience their lives.	1999-08-22
2804744:US	52918997	R3MZQ9LTHM4V7F	1561640018	410244985	Growing Family Fruit and Nut Trees (Reference and Field Guides)	Books	3	73	74	N	N	Basic informaion of growing fruit &amp; nuts	This is a good book for those wanting very basic information on planting, propagating, caring for, &amp; harvesting the fruit of the trees. More detailed information is given on citrus &amp; exotic fruits as well as on a  few nut varieties.<br />Several gadgets that can be used to make caring for  the tree easier are also listed along with places to get them. There is  also a small but delicious recipe section as well as  planting &amp;  apple-tasting record templates.<br />There is great chart that explains how to  organically fix or prevent many diseases &amp; pests  that can injure your  trees. Another chart lists zones, chill hours, height, pollinator &amp;  susceptibilities for about 16 trees.<br />A bibliography &amp; many  associations where you can find information on growing specific trees are  also included. Information on where to buy trees is as well as a list of  tree museums is a nice bonus.	1999-08-22
2804914:US	52918997	R29HA5RPN8RSOF	0943231647	86924200	Classic Aircraft in Aviation Art	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great aviation art book with detailed info of planes	This is a great aviation art book with some big plusses. In addition to the paintings, there is a detailed analysis of 6 of the most celebrated airplanes of World War II.<br />The B-17, P-47, P-51, Spitfire, Avro  Lancaster &amp; Messerschmitt 109 are depicted by 26 different artists. The  paintings are all brilliant &amp; extensive captions explain the historical  significance of each.<br />Technical information includes a line drawing with  specs. for each plane &amp; a fabulous cut away rendering of a P-51  identifying the components. Also included are paintings &amp; profiles of  the key personalities associated with the aircraft.<br />There is a history of  aviation art &amp; its role in the war effort &amp; in the cinema. This all  serves only to enhance the artwork through a depth of understanding not  achieved in other books.	1999-08-22
2804932:US	52918997	R322XIZ09TJPDZ	0916179419	614073002	Arizona: Wild & Free	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautiful guide to Arizona wildlife	This beautiful book is packed with photographs &amp; information on Arizona's diverse ecosystem including forests, deserts, grasslands &amp; wetlands. It truly captures the amazing variety of wildlife and terrain in  the state.<br />An adorable ringtail peeks out from a limb &amp; a toad stares  into the night. Pelicans crowd around the Colorado River &amp; an egret  takes flight. Observe a squirrel chewing on grass and an owl eating a  centipede.<br />See a hummingbird drinking nectar from a beautiful flower and  a prickly pear cactus in bloom. The desert turns a lush green after a  storm. Dense pine forests are home to deer, elk &amp; bears, and numerous  birds populate the wetlands.<br />There is an excellent close-up map of  Arizona showing the different regions. The photos come from many  contributors and all are informatively captioned. This is a wonderful way  to get to know all that nature offers in Arizona.	1999-08-22
2804989:US	52918997	RVR00CBUY2L8P	1555610730	183085541	Make-a-mix	Books	5	137	139	N	N	Wonderful delicous meals in less time	This is a wonderful book for those who need delicious meals in less time. With over 300 recipes, it provides a wide selection of easy-to-follow family-style meals that can be partially prepared ahead of time.<br />Information on equipment, procedures, &amp; ingredients as well as great  tips on lowering fat are included in the beginning. Over 50 mixes follow,  each listing the recipes it can be used in. Color photos show some of the  finished dishes.<br />Recipes include appetizers, soups, salads, vegetables,  side dishes, main dishes, breads, breakfasts, cakes, pies, &amp; desserts.  Some of my favorites are the lasagna, stroganoff,  minestrone soup &amp;  white chili.<br />My kids &amp; I love the many slice and bake cookies,  especially the peanut butter one. They are just like the pre-package kind  in the stores but are a lot cheaper. The soft pretzels, corn dogs, &amp;  cinnamon rolls are also great treats.	1999-08-22
2804997:US	52918997	RGNXVWG9588ZJ	0962054380	513656574	Five Artists-Five Directions: Working in Polymer Clay	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Wonderful showcase of polymer art	This is a wonderful showcase of polymer clay art &amp; great source of ideas. There is a detailed biographical sketch of each artist &amp; gallery of work in each one's own unique style.<br />There are Pier Voulkos' intricate  polymer clay pictures using conglomerated colors full of surprises.  Then  Martha Breen uses colorful millefiore to decorate objects from clocks to a  toy VW Beetle.<br />Ruth Anne Grove captures motion &amp; expression in her  jewelry featuring whimsical characters. Michael Grove creates abstract  vessels, pins &amp; mirrors with unusual shapes &amp; rich  colors.<br />Finally, Jamey D. Allen shows how folded clay beads can be  patterned after ancient glass beads. These are all masters of this modern  medium, executing their work with the utmost skill &amp; imagination.	1999-08-22
2805019:US	52918997	R3MR0HBECTQT8G	1550136429	561872946	The Last of the Wild Horses	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Wonderful photographic survey of wild horses	This is a fabulous photographic survey of the major remaining wild horse populations of the world. The variety of breeds &amp; settings maintains interest from cover to cover.<br />For each of the 7 breeds there is an  extensive history, physical description, behavior profile &amp; current  status. The photos capture the character &amp; personality of the horses in  their natural settings.<br />There are athletic mustangs of the American west,  primitive horses of Asia &amp; Europe, rugged British ponies, beautiful  white horses of the Camargue in France, &amp; a hardy band braving the  winter on Canada's Sable Island.<br />Packed with large color photos, this  book will be a unique &amp; treasured addition to any horse lover's  library.	1999-08-22
2806986:US	52918997	R2XRSIRWUW61RI	0691015511	60224222	Seabirds of the World	Books	5	23	24	N	N	One of the most complete guides of seabirds	This is one of the most complete guides to identifying seabirds. This book makes it easy to identify each species by providing photos, descriptions, illustrations &amp; a helpful index of English names.<br />Two to four  photographs of each bird are located in the front. English &amp; scientific  names are given below along with the page the text is on. The age of the  bird &amp; month the photo was taken are also noted.<br />Next, a text  description is given for each seabird. This includes height, weight, traits  in age group &amp; their habits. Distribution is both described &amp; shown  on a map.<br />Each of the six seabird orders is described pointing out their  different characteristics. There is also a detailed drawing of the  topography of a seabird. Another large illustrated section points out the  distinct features of some of the birds.	1999-08-18
2807125:US	52918997	R1PR87AJPBKVF1	0941831655	779053748	Light on the Land (Earthsong Collection)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Awesome photos &amp; wondeful muticultrual text	This is a truly unique and fascinating coffee table book. Photographs as well as poems, scriptures, stories, myths, &amp; legends are taken from all over the world &amp; encompass many different cultures.<br />The pictures are  spectacular. They will take you to the misty mountains of China &amp; then  let you travel to the lush green forests of Italy. You will also witness  the golden sun melting softly into the beautiful Australian coast.<br />You  can then observe zebras grazing the Serengeti Plain or discover the  beautiful nature-made sandstone sculptures of Arizona. The brilliant green  plains &amp; sparkling blue waters of Madagascar will take your breath  away.<br />Captions for each these images are located in the back &amp;  include photographic information, location, &amp; some of the  photographer's thoughts on the composition. If you can only buy one coffee  table book, this is definitely the one to get.	1999-08-18
2809456:US	52918997	R1C6N0UX3W43K4	1574320564	286000696	Collector's Encyclopedia of Nippon Porcelain w/ Price Guide : Updated, Series 5 (of 5 Series Set)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Excellent book on collectiong Nippon Porcelain	This is a wonderfully informative book on the popular collecting field of Nippon Porcelain. More than half the book is brilliant color photos of a wide variety of pieces with dimensions &amp; estimated retail  prices.<br />What sets this book apart though is the wealth of information for  collectors. There is a history of Nippon Porcelain &amp; an insightful  section of frequently asked questions. Themes including baseball, dogs  &amp; dolls are highlighted.<br />I especially enjoyed the original documents  reproduced here including early ads with items selling for pennies, design  patents, beautiful hand painted salesman sample pages and complete  selection of back-stamp marks.<br />There is a well illustrated section on the  dangerous reproductions now entering the market and many more tips to aid  the new or experienced collector. This is a truly indispensable reference  on Nippon.	1999-08-14
2809535:US	52918997	R1GQ4J3R0BCHZP	0898155878	898474252	Maxfield Parrish: The Landscapes	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Wonderful book with rarely seen landscapes	Some of Maxfield Parrish's least known but most vibrantly beautiful works are the landscapes featured in this book. Here is his ultimate mastery of light and color.<br />Although commercial illustration built his fame and  fortune, Parrish's true love was landscape painting. Many excerpts from his  correspondence attest to this fact and provide a remarkable glimpse into  the background of the artist.<br />There are several pages of photos of  Parrish's estate, &quot;The Oaks&quot;, which provided the inspiration for  many of his works. Now owned by the author, it is evident how these  magnificent grounds are reflected in the paintings.<br />The book concludes  with 34 full page color plates of landscape paintings produced for the  Brown &amp; Bigelow Co. from 1936-1963. Having been a Parrish fan for  years, I found several new favorites here.	1999-08-14
2810183:US	52918997	RNW0TU2AJ0QR2	0789203898	462190185	African Elephants: A Celebration of Majesty	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Impressive book for the photographs &amp; text	This is a most impressive book on the African Elephant, with page after page of fabulous photos of these mighty beasts. It would make a great coffee table book just for the pictures but it is much more than  that.<br />The main focus is on preservation of the species in the face of  shrinking habitats and the poaching for ivory that continues today. The  efforts of 16 African wildlife preserves and parks are fully described  here.<br />Each region is profiled with information on its elephants and  several photos of the elephants specific to that area. The mature huge  tuskers of Kruger National Park are truly awesome.<br />There is also plenty  of information on elephant history, physiology and social interaction. This  is a beautiful and significant book on the life and challenges facing the  African Elephant.	1999-08-13
2810307:US	52918997	RJQAO59PISIUX	0961088826	847034617	The Devil's Food:  A Dessert Cookbook	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delicious desserts for all occations	This book provides a scrumptious array of desserts for all occasions. Recipes vary in range of difficulty from easy to hard. Thankfully, most use common ingredients &amp; quite a few photographs are shown.<br />Recipes  include cookies, bar cookies, cakes, pies, &amp; candies. There are special  sections focusing on quick &amp; easy to make recipes, to more elegant  desserts for parties as well some lower fat selections for dieters.<br />Some  of my favorites include the cowboy cookies, chocolate angel pie &amp;  almond custard. I frequently entertain &amp; my guests were very impressed  with the bananas flamb&eacute; as well as the Grand Marnier souffl&eacute;.<br />My  favorite recipe is the better than sex cake. Not only does it taste divine  but it is fairly easy to make and has only 4 grams of fat per serving. This  book would definitely make a great gift for anyone.	1999-08-13
2810324:US	52918997	R18VGL7HLFCQ7D	0882669788	829351631	The Big Book of Preserving the Harvest	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Excellent Guide to preserving	This is excellent book for learning to preserve you own food. A wide variety of techniques including freezing, canning, pickling, drying, &amp; using cold storage as well as making jams &amp; jellies are thoroughly  covered.<br />All the sections contain clear easy-to-follow instructions and  lots of helpful tips. There is even advice on buying produce &amp;  harvesting the crops. At the end of each section there are recipes that use  the method previously taught.<br />Some delicious recipes include chili con  carne, blueberry waffles, &amp; winter onion soup. These are great for  today's rushed family life. Simply heat them up and you have a quick &amp;  hearty meal. All recipes include nutritional information.<br />A table of  equivalents, metric table, &amp; detailed plans for making your own  electric food dehydrator are great extras. This book makes a great addition  to any cook's library &amp; is also a great way to prepare a stock of  emergency food.	1999-08-13
2810325:US	52918997	R1I6O4SYKTYG5P	1557040451	232382881	Smart Breakfasts: 101 Delicious, Healthy Ways to Start the Day (The "Jane Kinderlehrer smart food" series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great delicious &amp; nutritious recipes	This is an excellent book for those who are seeking both a delicious &amp; nutritious breakfast. Since trying these recipes, I feel better &amp; have more energy throughout the day. Most meals are easy to make, but some  require exotic ingredients.<br />The author starts out by discussing proper  nutrition &amp; some of the ingredients used. The recipes follow including  cereals, eggs, breads, pancakes, toppings, soups &amp; drinks. Elegant  &amp; kid pleasing meals are also included.<br />There are even special  chapters focusing on heart healthy &amp; lean hi-energy meals, as well  recipes for those with allergies. Some of my favorites include Rhode Island  jonnnycakes &amp; orange spice popcorn waffles.<br />My kids love the  breakfast cake &amp; milkshakes. My only complaint is some of the recipes  are not low-fat. Quite a few have over 7 grams of fat, &amp; others contain  up to 19 grams of fat per serving.	1999-08-13
2812622:US	52918997	RM34CY5407B8P	1570981043	479934295	Underwater Wilderness: Life in America's National Marine Sanctuaries and Reserves	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautiufl photography, strage aquatic life	Brilliant photography of some of the most strange, unusual, beautiful and grotesque inhabitants of the mysterious underwater world is the highlight of this book. These color close-ups are truly stunning.<br />Arranged by  region, there is information on 33 marine sanctuaries and reserves. For  each one the location, habitats, key species and general description is  given. All are identified on a map and phone numbers are also given.<br />The  text is a fascinating narrative on U.S. coastal sea life. The effects of  climate and geological structure on the life in each area are discussed  along with characteristics and habits of the many creatures  shown.<br />Captions with the photos are very informative. Some of my  favorites are a queen angelfish, a puffed-up porcupinefish, &amp; a  brilliant orange garibaldi. The yellow-black raccoon butterflyfish is also  quite striking.	1999-08-09
2812741:US	52918997	RWR4WKMLPNLSM	1570761124	124908740	Stained Glass: Design Sourcebook (Design Sourcebooks)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A most inspirational stained glass design book	I highly recommend this book for a stained glass artist or anyone seeking to commission a stained glass piece for their home. The glass is painted, etched, &amp; blown to create many stunning &amp; unique effects.<br />Design  themes include marine life, birds, animals, people, floral, religious &amp;  abstract. The book is filled with gorgeous color photos with captions for  each window listing title, artist, size, &amp; the glass types used.<br />I  fell in love with a screen entitled &quot;Waves&quot; &amp; one featuring  sandblasted water nymphs. I also enjoyed another circular piece featuring  the tree of life &amp; flame. A huge abstract biblical window took my  breath away.<br />There is a very helpful list of artists in the back. Contact  information, pages their artwork is on &amp; the kind of work they do is  listed here. I find myself constantly looking to this book for inspiration  &amp; ideas.	1999-08-09
2812778:US	52918997	R1K21NQSLXKYJ0	0811702391	188511122	Seabirds of the World: The Complete Reference	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Most complete reference of seabirds available	This is an absolutely indispensable reference on sea birds, including penguins. It is the most complete book available on the subject and makes identifying the birds a breeze. It is truly fascinating book.<br />Detailed  information on nearly 300 species is included. Detailed juvenile &amp;  adult descriptions are given for each bird. Facts about distribution &amp;  population are also provided.<br />There are over 800 photographs that are  arranged from six to nine to a page. Many have never been published before.  Usually there are at least two clear close-up photographs of each species.<br />Captions list the species, approximate age, &amp; location. Photographic  acknowledgments are listed in the back. The topography guide is a nice  bonus. This is a beautiful and informative book for any bird lover.	1999-08-09
2812810:US	52918997	R32C666H7SVF81	0875969798	510098706	Preserving Summer's Bounty: A Quick and Easy Guide to Freezing, Canning, and Preserving, and Drying What You Grow	Books	5	329	336	N	N	Everything you need to know about preserving	This book covers everything you need to know about freezing, canning, preserving, pickling, drying, juicing, &amp; root cellaring. Step-by-step instructions make it easy for even a beginner to follow.<br />The book starts  out with a harvesting guide that includes all methods that can be used to  preserve each crop. Next, freezing is covered including a crop-by-crop  guide &amp; blanching methods.<br />Then both bath &amp; pressure canning are  demonstrated in detail. A processing timetable for each crop is included as  well. Instructions for making fruit butters as well as cooked, pectin,  &amp; refrigerator jams &amp; jellies follows.<br />The drying section  includes shelf life for dried food &amp; instructions for making your own  dryer. There are also over 250 delicious recipes you can freeze, can or  preserve and a resource guide for modern &amp; heirloom seeds.	1999-08-09
2812875:US	52918997	R12TQQVU5L4ES0	1888054239	325990659	Maxfield Parrish: The Advertisements, the Art Prints, the Book Illustrations, the Magazine Covers	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A great gift idea	This is a delightful collection of Maxfield Parrish's art, presented in 4 small, elegant volumes. Each book covers a different category of Parrish's work including ads, book &amp; magazine covers, and fine art prints.<br />The  most popular paintings are here as expected, along with many seldom seen  pieces. There is also a very insightful text that chronicles Parrish's  life, career and inspirations, and how the various paintings came about.<br />I especially enjoyed the book illustrations with mythological  characters, genies &amp; dragons, and fantastic landscapes. Another  favorite is the advertisements, with 10 Edison Mazda lamp ads among many  others.<br />These quality books with vibrant color illustrations on fine  paper would make a great gift for any Parrish enthusiast.	1999-08-09
2812979:US	52918997	R3GBDN3MSN2QYN	0937404454	665326971	Not Just Cheesecake: A Yogurt Cheese Cookbook	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Low-fat &amp; low-calorie, easy delicious recipes	This is a wonderful cookbook featuring delicious &amp; nutritious recipes. Most recipes are easy-to-make &amp; use common ingredients. All are low in fat with no recipe containing more than 4 grams per serving.<br />The author  starts out by explaining the miracle of yogurt cheese &amp; how to make it.  She also discusses other ingredients &amp; how to make the recipes even  healthier. Nutrition information is provided along with dietetic  exchanges.<br />Recipes include dips, spreads, appetizers, salads, dressings,  snacks, chilled soups, &amp; breads. Many varieties of cheesecake, cookies,  cakes, pies, puddings, frostings, &amp; fondues are also included.<br />There  are even recipes for many flavors of frozen yogurt that only require a  blender. Some of my favorites are the crescents, soft pretzels, &amp;  no-cook cucumber soup. I also enjoyed the scrumptious oatmeal kiss cookies.	1999-08-09
2813036:US	52918997	R26LLKGPZA8MKD	156799525X	917293986	Butterfly Gardening: Creating a Butterfly Haven in Your Garden	Books	5	35	35	N	N	The best butterfly gardening book	This wonderful book provides everything you need know to plan &amp; maintain a beautiful garden designed to attract butterflies. Information on conservation, photography &amp; history of butterfly gardening is  included.<br />Charts and diagrams present the information most effectively.  Two tables list nectar sources for adult butterflies &amp; larval host  plants. Below each plant the butterflies that use it are listed.<br />There  are 5 complete garden plans tailored to different regions of the country,  with tips on design, plant selection, water &amp; pest control. Regional  butterfly books and contact information for enthusiasts are also  listed.<br />The last section is the best. It contains beautiful photographs  of over 50 different butterflies. The range, habitat and favorite plants  are given for each species. I love these beautiful gardens with the  butterfly bonus.	1999-08-09
2813071:US	52918997	R375W3XTQSHV6T	0761500049	892955867	Chewy Cookies: The Ultimate Comfort Food - Over 125 Fabulous Recipes	Books	5	7	8	N	N	yummy soft chewy cookies	This is an essential guide for lovers of soft, chewy cookies. It contains a wide variety of melt-in-your-mouth scrumptious cookies. The recipes are easy to follow &amp; use mostly  common ingredients.<br />The author does a  nice job of explaining the basics as well as offering hints on the  ingredients &amp; supplies. She even gives instructions on storing &amp;  freezing the cookies properly.<br />There are sections for elegant, tea-time,  kid-style, chocolate &amp; holiday cookies as well as popular favorites  like chocolate chip, bars-style, &amp; macaroons. Healthy ideas with  whole-wheat, oats, granola &amp; vegetables are here too.<br />Some of my  favorite cookies are the maple walnut bars &amp; chocolate peppermint  patties. My friends raved about the butterscotch meringue squares. You must  also try the macadamia &amp; white chocolate-chunk drops.	1999-08-09
2813163:US	52918997	R20XTZCU687FEN	0812234049	318965563	The Potter's Dictionary of Materials and Techniques	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Indispensable reference, must-have for serious potter	This is an indispensable reference for anyone involved in the potter's and ceramic arts. More an encyclopedia than a dictionary, the depth and detail of coverage is outstanding.<br />From the artistic to the highly technical,  everything is here. Materials &amp; processes as well as chemical  compositions and practical formulae are accompanied by black &amp; white  photos and excellent diagrams.<br />A wealth of information is provided in an  appendix of 42 tables, a bibliography, a list of suppliers and personal  recipes from a number of artists. Historical styles and techniques are  included as well.<br />Two sections of color plates include many varied and  beautiful finished pieces with technical details and references to  appropriate dictionary entries. This is definitely a classic in its field.	1999-08-09
2813237:US	52918997	R2NQ5E2POL7H6	1564962776	720135626	Paper Boxes (Make It With Paper)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Unique boxes for any occasion	This is a wonderful book on learning to make your own beautiful &amp; unique boxes. By varying the paper &amp; decorative elements a stunning variety of boxes can be made based on few basic designs.<br />The  step-by-step instructions are very easy to follow. Both photographs &amp;  illustrations guide you smoothly through the box making process. Tips on  construction &amp; presentation for each box are also included.<br />There  are eight box types demonstrated. Included are triangle, cube, frame,  magician, puzzle, heart, lotus, &amp; a matchbox. For each one there is a  one-page gallery of different design ideas.<br />In the back there are  templates for each box. It even includes paper elements you can tear out  and use. I put a picture in a frame box with a pin inside &amp; gave it to  my mother for her birthday; she was delighted.	1999-08-09
2814325:US	52918997	RDVP3M0VMU82E	0916179222	513513123	Eternal Desert	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful photography, vibrant colors	This is a fabulous coffee table book makes a great gift for any nature lover. David Muench does a wonderful job of capturing the desert &amp; bringing home for you to enjoy.It is in stunning full-color on glossy  stock.<br />Photographs encompass landscapes of endless sands &amp; rocks of  many different hues. Impressive natural sandstone sculptures are also  displayed. You even get a glimpse of the petroglyphs &amp; ruins of ancient  peoples.<br />I fell in love with a spectacular waterfall flowing into most  gorgeous turquoise waters I have ever seen. Meadows of golden prickly pear  cactus flowers &amp; fields of brilliant orange poppies took my breath  away.<br />The text includes many fascinating facts about America's deserts.  There is also a great map of the region. Captions including quotations from  Van Dyke's &quot;The Desert&quot; fit the photography perfectly.	1999-08-06
2814676:US	52918997	R3IHZKBNM3KDSA	1886388024	156191422	Artists At Work: Polymer Clay Comes of Age	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Insipirational	This is an absolutely incredible book packed with unique artworkby over 50 different &amp; highly talented artists. As an intermediatepolymer clay artist I look to this book when I need new ideas &amp;  inspiration.<br />Background information is given on each artist including  education, technique &amp; style. One or more the artists' best works are then displayed with basic information on the how the artwork was  created.<br />Contact information for all the artists in located in the back along with a small dictionary &amp; a list of reference books the artists' use. Several of the artists also answer questions about their working techniques.<br />Some on my favorite pieces are a chess set, a mosaic sunflower, a mushroom fairie &amp; a millefiori trade rattle made out of a gourd. I also enjoyed the numerous pieces of jewelry including butterfly, fan &amp; African animal pins.	1999-08-06
2820900:US	52918997	R34UUT0PL4ETHS	0891452362	665264913	Collector's Encyclopedia of Flow Blue China	Books	5	64	65	N	N	An essential guide for flow blue collector's	This is an essential guide for collectors of flow blue china. It features over 400 pieces photographed in color and described in detail.<br />For identification purposes, all of the manufacturers' marks on these pieces  are shown in enlarged b/w photos. There are also cross-references for  manufacturers and their patterns and types of objects other than  plates.<br />For the collector, there is a history of flow blue, information  on collecting methods, a glossary, and market trends including modern  reproductions to watch out for. A current value guide is also provided for  all the items illustrated.<br />The photography is excellent. Captions for  each item include maker &amp; pattern, size and reference to the photo of  the mark. This will be a great reference for the beginning or advanced  collector of this beautiful style.	1999-07-27
2821430:US	52918997	R26SBJGGQCLUNG	0880450479	105235378	The Bed & Breakfast Cookbook: Great American B&Bs and Their Recipes from All Fifty States	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A wonderful cookbook &amp; B&amp;B guide	This is both a wonderful cookbook &amp; a great reference on American B&amp;B's. It contains over 300 recipes. It is printed on glossy stock with many full-color photos &amp; b/w illustration of the B&amp;Bs.<br />A wide  variety of recipes include beverages, cereals, pancakes, waffles, French  toast, vegetables, egg dishes, breads, coffee cakes, pastries, jellies,  sauces, sandwiches, sweets &amp; breakfast meats.<br />The chocolate waffles,  apple French toast with cream cheese, &amp; sour cream raisin pie are all  divine. An easier to make cheese souffle is another favorite. I also loved  the orange julius beverage &amp; lobster quiche.<br />Each recipe is  accompanied by description of the B&amp;B with contact information.  B&amp;Bs are also listed in the index &amp; by state in the back.  Reservation agencies &amp; a list of other guidebooks are included as well.	1999-07-27
2824625:US	52918997	R2CJR4HQAHJ9SG	0896584003	874600028	Dolphins of the World	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The must-have bookk for any dolphin lover	This is a must have book for any dolphin lover. It is in full-color with numerous full-page photographs of dolphins by various photographers. It is also packed with many fascinating facts on these intriguing &amp; beautiful  creatures. Information is given on the dolphins' origins, physiology,  intelligence, eating habits, birth, &amp; death. The lives &amp;  characteristics of oceanic, river, and coastal dolphins are also detailed.  Next, environmental issues &amp; research as well as the authors' personal  experiences with dolphins are discussed. Wonderful photographs show many  different species of dolphins in a wide variety of situations. A great  illustrated chart showing over 30 dolphin types in also included. Many  dolphins shown are quite unusual like the pink Boto &amp; Atlantic spotted  dolphin. A chart in the back gives details on the attributes &amp; location  of each one.	1999-07-21
2824980:US	52918997	R1AK3FDL29SNMW	1555610528	951519117	Posh Pancakes & Fancy Fritters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful book, makes a great gift	This is a wonderful book for anyone who wants to make quick &amp; easy pancakes with commonly found ingredients. It contains over 50 pancake recipes, most are accompanied by a topping or sauce. There are a many  unique recipes for any time of day including breakfast, dinner &amp; even  dessert. Pancakes are made with a wide range of ingredients including  fruit, vegetables, meat, seafood &amp; cheese. There are also many  international recipes including blintzes, Russian blini, Italian macaroni  frittatas, Jewish potato latkes, scones &amp; many crepes. Cannelloni,  manicotti, mandarin, &amp; highland pancakes are also included.<br />Some of  my favorite recipes include sourdough pancakes with raspberry sauce, blue  corn pancakes with a lemony walnut sauce, turkey cakes, chocolate oatmeal  pancakes, and Mexican cheese &amp; chili pancakes.	1999-07-21
2824997:US	52918997	R9W2E1XZ6KVCV	1580170153	282691821	Making Bits and Pieces Mosaics: Creative Projects for Home & Garden	Books	5	70	71	N	N	A wonderful down to earth mosaic art of all levels	This is a wonderful book on creating mosaic art. It is in full color with many photographs of the artwork. The instructions are easy to follow and accompanied by step-by-step illustrations.  The book starts out with a  brief history &amp; some impressive examples of mosaics throughout the  world. Many great tips are then given on collecting materials including  commonly found objects. Next developing a color scheme, matching shapes,  &amp; adding highlights to your artwork are discussed. Then, equipment  &amp; materials are covered and basic techniques are demonstrated in  detail. Numerous projects follow including a flowerpot, mirror, birdbath,  birdhouse, watering can, plant stand, garden walkway, small garden wall,  &amp; jewelry. The book even shows you how to restore china that has been  chipped.	1999-07-21
2825908:US	52918997	R2ZJNP2O65N71K	0804722897	814417535	The Fishes of the Galpagos Islands	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Most comprehensive catalog of galapagos fish	Drawing on more than 20 years of first hand research and collecting, as well as historical and contemporary data, this is a most comprehensive catalog of the fishes found in the waters surrounding the Galapagos  Islands. Filling a void in the study of the Galapagos, this volume  demonstrates that the marine life is as varied, unusual, &amp; unique as  the land animals which have been so well documented. 437 fish are included  with 41 being unique to the region. For each species there is a general  description, natural history, habitat, range and size. There is a b/w  drawing or photo of most species plus 150 excellent color photos, most  showing a live fish in its habitat. To assist future visitors in using the  book as an identification guide, a description of prime diving sites is  included. This book will prove to be invaluable to the student of the  Galapagos environment or of fishes in general.	1999-07-19
2826061:US	52918997	RIJD1XG5ZMCFT	1564771032	518968141	Dyes & Paints: A Hands-On Guide to Coloring Fabric	Books	5	53	54	N	N	The most comprehesive book on painting &amp; Dyeing fabric	This book is a comprehensive guide to coloring fabrics using many different media and techniques. There are many color pictures of the procedures and stunning finished pieces by talented artists. Methods  covered include fiber-reactive dyes, immersion dyeing, direct application  dyeing, resists, textile paints and marbling. Complete information on  equipment and supplies, and step by step instructions are given for each.  There is also thorough coverage of fabric selection and preparation,  safety, measurements and a very useful suppliers list. The book is well  organized with many charts, tables and special hints. The broad scope of  this book, it's clear and detailed instructions and wonderful illustrations  make it a must for anyone interested in applying color to fabric. You are  sure to find some exciting new ideas here.	1999-07-19
2826469:US	52918997	R312YKZPU260GW	1571200169	895217808	Fractured Landscape Quilts	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Beautiful quilts	This book showcases the superb talent of the author in designing and crafting her unique style of quilt. The techniques will challenge the experienced quilter, but the many finished pieces will be a joy for all.  These quilts are based on actual landscape photos from which the basic  design is drawn. Geometric patterns are added &quot;fracturing&quot; the  image into sections, each of which is pieced with it's own selection of  fabrics. The end result is a remarkable play of light &amp; color that  gives the impression of looking at a scene through multiple lenses or  broken glass. The special techniques used to produce these quilts are well  described and illustrated. This is more than a how-to book. The many  beautiful quilts done by the author and her students and shown in full  color are a great display of the art of the quilt.	1999-07-19
2828274:US	52918997	R28HGPV6D0KVAL	0881922439	746814205	The Orchid Paintings of Franz Bauer	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Simply Beauiful	This is a wonderful book packed with over 50 full-color paintings of many orchid varieties. By examining the orchids closely you get to see their true beauty. This is a great reference tool for any orchid lover or botany  student. The book starts out with a history of the artist himself. Then the  structure &amp; function of each class of orchid is examined. Detailed  black &amp; white paintings accompany this discussion. The orchid painting  themselves are spectacular. Each section is shown in vivid detail. The  Latin &amp; common names as well as the orchid's distribution, history  &amp; a written description are located adjacent to the paintings. Some of  my favorite paintings include the lady slipper, king orchid, golden donkey,  &amp; marsh helleborine. I intend to purchase another copy of the book, so  I can cut out the artwork &amp; frame it for decoration.	1999-07-15
2828333:US	52918997	R186TD5NI2TOE5	0890240442	240809109	How to Build Miniature Furniture and Room Settings	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Wonderful book for any level, filled with nice projects	This is a fantastic book for the craftsman of miniature furniture and room settings. Suitable for the beginner or experienced modeler, the instructions here lead to stunning finished products. Specialized tools and  techniques for working in miniature are covered. The sections on building,  modifying and enhancing furniture kits maximizes their usefulness. More  elaborate projects scratch built from patterns follow. These include  tables, a large breakfront, and an upholstered chair and settee group. Room  construction and detailing ideas include floors, walls, ceilings, windows  and wiring for dazzling lighting effects. The book concludes with a useful  list of sources.	1999-07-15
2828503:US	52918997	RNPPNKSS48I4	1550136496	392503538	Spirit Bear: Encounters with the White Bear of the Western Rainforest	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wow! Great for any bear lover	This is a fascinating story of rare and beautiful animals and the crew of research photographers who became intimately associated with them. It offers some startling revelations into the life and behavior of bears. The  Spirit Bear, or Kermode Bear, is a white genetic variety of black bear,  found only on Princess Royal Island off British Columbia. The region is  also home to black bears and grizzly bears which are included in the book  as well. What is most remarkable here is how the bears on the island, which  had very little prior human contact, accepted the crew with an open  gentleness allowing many close encounters to be documented. The book is  written in an engaging first person style and beautifully photographed with  close ups of bears in various activities. It will surely be a favorite  addition to the library of any nature lover.	1999-07-15
2828608:US	52918997	RH5JOQB33GO3C	1570981280	65157167	Cenzoo: The Story of a Baby Gorilla	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A must-have for gorilla lovers	This is a must have book for anyone who loves gorillas. It chronicles the heartwarming story of a baby gorilla &amp; his family as they travel to their new home showing how they adapt to their new environment.The book  starts off with the tale of Cenzoo, the baby gorilla, who was abandoned  &amp; near dead. It details his and his families (him &amp; mother, another  female, &amp; a silverback male) airplane adventure to their new home in a  Denver zoo. The story continues to follow the lives of the gorilla family  as they acclimate to their new home. There are many observations about how  a gorilla's behavior differs in captivity versus in the wild. I really like  how each gorilla's personality traits were described. I truly felt as if I  got to know each of the gorillas. Lots of time is also given the plight of  the vanishing gorillas &amp; what is being done to help.	1999-07-15
2829051:US	52918997	R1Y8XNQSH9GZ44	0761504230	125490910	Miracle Muffins: Amazingly Delicious Treats Without All That Fat	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Delicious, Nutrious Muffins	This is a great little muffin book packed with over 100 delicious foolproof recipes. About half are for muffins. Although some exotic ingredients are used, most of the recipes are quick &amp; easy to make.  Recipes have between 3-6 grams of fat, though most contain 4-5 grams. This  may seem a little high, but the muffins are a bit larger than most. Baking  papers are filled to top, producing nice round muffins. Recipes include a  wide variety of muffins including those with fruit, savory ones, &amp;  coffee cake style. Scones, waffles, hotcakes, breakfast breads, syrups  &amp; spreads are also included. The book also discusses equipment &amp;  ingredients. Many useful hints &amp; tips are included as well. One of my  favorite recipes is the Parmesan &amp; fresh herb muffins. I also love the  banana drop scones &amp; strawberry topping.	1999-07-14
2829231:US	52918997	RVC7LVMNOBGWK	1560064633	982349403	The Giant Panda (Endangered Animals & Habitats)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A great reference book about the endangered panda	This is a good book for a young adult who has a strong interest in pandas and their endangerment. It would also be a great addition to any home school library. It is packed with fascinating facts about pandas &amp; how  they live. The book starts out with a profile of the panda bear. This  encompasses ancestry, classification, diet, socialization, mating and how  they care for their young. Next, a history of how pandas were discovered is  covered. The rest of the book is dedicated to the plight of the vanishing  pandas including poaching &amp; their threatened habitat. A discussion of  captivity &amp; breeding programs, as well as current action plans to save  them is also detailed. A glossary &amp; suggested readings are a nice  bonus. My only wish was for better pictures. All are small and are in black  &amp; white.	1999-07-14
2829233:US	52918997	RYM1PCZKJYQZ6	0836269942	272180992	Mad About Muffins: A Cookbook for Muffin Lovers	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Easy to make muffins galore	This is a wonderful muffin book containing over 100 easy muffin recipes that use common ingredients. Better yet, preparation time is usually 15 minuets or less. Muffin varieties include those with vegetables, fruits,  nuts, &amp; chocolate. Breakfast, adult, &amp; international muffins are  also included. There are even recipes to please kids and ones taken from  traditional cakes. My favorite section includes 9 luscious chocolate muffin  recipes including peanut butter chocolate, mocha chocolate chip, &amp;  tunnelfudge to name a few. I also enjoyed the Parmesan tomato &amp; sour  cream streusel muffins. The book has a country feel to it. It is printed in  color on handmade style paper. There are numerous illustrations throughout.  My only wish is for more information on ingredients &amp; general  preparation.	1999-07-14
2829522:US	52918997	R3IOQQ7D54CL4K	0882894641	796865809	Forgotten Art of Flower Cookery	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Insighful book with unique recipes	This is a wonderful book on cooking with flowers. The over 200 recipes included are both delicious &amp; nutritious. Most are also quick &amp; easy to make. The book starts out with tips on selecting &amp; gathering  the flowers. Then a good French dressing that doesn't cover up the flavor  of the flowers is given. Instructions for how to candy all types of flowers  is given next. Recipes are arranged by flower. The number of recipes for  each varies greatly. I love how the author took the time to include a brief  history of each flower as well as information on its flavor &amp; general  preparation. Some of my favorite recipes are the carnation crepes, day-lily  tempura, &amp; dynasty eggs on toast made with chrysanthemums. I also  enjoyed the violet studded snowballs, they made a great conversation piece.	1999-07-14
2829576:US	52918997	R3M6TEVPF7SPJW	1565543270	124197697	Book of Irish Golf, The	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautiful courses &amp; a intriging history	This is a fine book for the golf enthusiast anywhere. It is a fascinating history and celebration of the game played by those who love it. Beginning with the origins of golf in Ireland this is a story of dynamic personalities who helped popularize the game. The evolution of the tools of  the game is included with many great photos of early equipment and  memorabilia. The stories of the great local and international golfers of  Ireland are told in detail with some great action photos. Contributions of  others such as Arnold Palmer are included, as is extensive coverage of  ladies' golf, which has always been popular in Ireland. One of my favorite  things about golf is the beauty of the courses and the Irish ones shown  here are among the world's most exciting and varied, carved into the  natural landscape. Any golfer will find something of joy in this book.	1999-07-13
2829908:US	52918997	R19VY1KM4JKM9W	0943231558	724454650	Aviation: A History Through Art	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Amazing Photo-realistic Artwork	This is a book of vibrant new aviation art from the American Society of Aviation Artists. There are 112 paintings by 32 artists mostly done from 1975-1990. Each is a full page in brilliant color on heavy stock. The paintings are arranged chronologically by subject matter from World War I  to the Space Shuttle. Here you will find most of history's famous aircraft  as well as some of the most rare and unusual.The style of these paintings  is photo-realistic and highly detailed. Each is historically accurate and  the complete story behind the painting is given on the opposite page.  Information on the artists is also included. This is a great book for the  student of aviation history as well as the art fan. The plates would look  great framed if you could bear to remove them from the book.	1999-07-13
2829986:US	52918997	R1PT6MAU77K789	9676530689	819305439	Elephants of Thailand: Myth, Art, and Reality	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This book offers a unique perspective on elephants	When thinking of elephants, Thailand is not the first place that comes to most people's mind. However, as described here, elephants have played a major role in Thai art and culture throughout history.The author draws upon 14 years studying &amp; teaching art in Thailand to present this  comprehensive view of the elephant in Thai society. She does well in  combining art with the elephants' active ceremonial &amp; working roles.  Elephants are shown in many art forms including drawings, engravings,  murals, sculpture &amp; bronzes. Well illustrated in b/w, there is also a  16 page color gallery showing a great variety of art and architectural  detail. The physical characteristics of the Thai elephant and its current  endangered status are covered here as well. This book provides an excellent  overall view of the elephant's central role in Thai life &amp; culture.	1999-07-13
2830294:US	52918997	R351XM3LWWW4WE	0789204592	186718647	Orientalism in Art (Culture)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A wonderful coffee table book	This lavish volume shows the strong influence of Oriental themes on Nineteenth Century European art. The European fascination with everything Oriental is evident in the wide range of paintings in this book. The author explains how and why the Oriental subjects became so pervasive. She draws  extensively on the writings of the artists themselves and their critics to  provide the background for this movement. The book is thoroughly  illustrated in full color of the highest quality. Subject matter includes  striking landscapes &amp; architecturals, historical scenes, native  peoples, sensual women &amp; harem scenes. This book is appealing on  different levels. As a coffee table book it is beautiful to browse. As a  scholarly work it brings together and makes sense of many artists' work  within a common cultural theme.	1999-07-13
2833788:US	52918997	R1WKSKTLPJNVUM	0891459804	768932773	Wonderful Wearables: A Celebration of Creative Clothing	Books	5	70	70	N	N	A wonderful book for the both the sewer &amp; non-sewer	This is a wonderful book for both the sewer &amp; the non-sewer alike. The clothing designs are stunning &amp; inspirational, if only to look at. Most are quite colorful, imaginative &amp; have their own unique style. Basic  pattern diagrams are included as well as detailed instructions for  stitching &amp; piecing. Patterns include ponchos, kimonos, coats, capes,  skirts, shirts &amp; accessories such as purses &amp; belts to name a few.  The book is packed with instructions for embellishments including applique,  embroidery, quilting, &amp; painting. Adding pleats, gathers &amp; ruffles  is also covered. Caring for fabrics is included as well. The book is  full-color on glossy stock. There are numerous photographs of the clothing,  all are gorgeous &amp; true works of art. I fell in love with &quot;Magic  Kimono&quot; decorated with a metallic sun &amp; moon design.	1999-07-07
2856717:US	52918997	R3C57ZEWTTDH3M	1886801363	107572748	The Ray Dream Handbook	Books	5	8	8	N	N	To get the most out of Ray Dream, You must get this book	This is a great book for learning to use Ray Dream. The tips on modeling, shading and light really helped me use Ray Dream more efficiently. The CD has some great files of all kinds to practice with &amp; some bonus  ArtBeats demos. I appreciated how the book helped me &quot;think&quot; like  Ray Dream. The first chapter explains all about thinking in 3D. More  sections cover the though processes of modeling, lighting, mood, shading,  composition, &amp; animation. There are some wonderful step by step  tutorials on modeling. A few include making rocks, foliage, an easy spiral  staircase, and a gazebo. There are many lighting, camera, animation, and  rendering technique tutorials as well. There are also some nice shader  recipes. Some include rust, marble &amp; glass. I loved how the artist  profiles section took me through the artwork of several artists. Many  striking color photos of the artwork are shown.	1999-06-02
2863861:US	52918997	R3QQ4YIXB3HOVZ	0201353997	2714195	The Illustrator 8 Wow! Book	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The book you need to get more out of Illustrator 8	This is a wonderful book for anyone who wants get more pizzazz out of Illustrator. From just starting out, to obtaining advanced effects, it guides you step-by-step with both text and color examples. Though this book  does a nice job of covering the basics, where it really excels is in its  coverage of advanced techniques. I learned to create painterly effects with  gradient lighting and how to make a complex pattern. It also showed me how  to create a truly realistic reflection, &amp; produce shadows. The tips and  techniques really helped me to learn to use Illustrator more productively.  The resource and artist directories were a nice plus as well. The CD  included is also quite spectacular. It includes some awesome brushes, Wow!  actions and clip art. It also contains images to pick apart and trial  programs. There are even some great tutorials on the basics of Illustrator.	1999-05-21
2863967:US	52918997	R2GOJS4EEXB2T9	0201696517	693799750	The Painter 5 Wow! Book (3rd Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What a great book!	I love this book. It contains tons of hints, tips and lots of different techniques. It also has a lot of color reference pictures and artwork. Instructions are clear and easy to follow, but some experience with painter  will help a lot.  For a smaller book, it covers a lot of ground. It  contains several different traditional art techniques with information on  to make each brush look as realistic as possible by using different  settings.  It also has instructions on how to apply scanned paper textures,  color a scratch board, &amp; make hot beveled metal. It covers create a  tide pool, melt text in water, make a cloned mosaic, use light to add  dimension &amp; make draping weave as well.	1999-05-21
2889394:US	52918997	R391GS7QT6RMRI	0201694190	942803661	Real World Bryce 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The book you need to really understand Bryce	If you've ever wanted to really understand Bryce and how it works, this is the book for you. It really helped me streamline the process of making cool worlds in Bryce. The color examples &amp; awesome artwork are a nice bonus.  Every feature in covered in great detail, far beyond the scope of the  original Bryce manual.  The author presents advanced features, showing how  to make undersea worlds, rivers, &amp; waterfalls using Bryce &amp;  Photoshop. She then devotes over 100 pages to working with texture. Other  chapters cover working with other software, rendering and realistic nature  imagery. There is even a chapter on making alien world scenes.  The CD also  has some great examples including rendering tests &amp; tutorial Bryce  files to play with. There are also 100's of spectacular images of different  worlds created by over 80 different artists.	1999-04-07
