40073:US	52966385	R3CJYYBE73AKBF	0743253973	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is Any Peace Really Separate?	For years I have heard about A SEPARATE PEACE. It's one of those pieces of American literature that has reached the status of iconic: It's often quoted in movies and in television and the book often shows up on people's &#34;best books&#34; and &#34;must read&#34; lists. After seeing the movie SIDEWAYS in the spring (a portion of the book is read in that movie) and then discovering I might have to teach the novel as part of my student teaching this fall, I finally got around to reading the novel this summer.<br /><br />It's one of the best pieces of fiction I've read in a long time. Knowles' has that rare gift of being able to vividly describe each scene and moment in such simple detail that another writer reading the book begins to quiver with envy (I know I did, literally). The book tells the story of the life of two male prep school students set against the backdrop of their senior year in 1942-43. The boys, Phineas and Gene, are best friends and share a bond similar to the Biblical David and Jonathan. However, during the summer of '42 an tragic accident befalls young Phineas which sets into motion the eradication of their childhood and the catalysts for their metamorphosis into adults.<br /><br />I was very impressed with A SEPARATE PEACE. The novel isn't a happy story, yet it isn't completely tragic either. Along with THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN and THE GREAT GATSBY, I now consider A SEPARATE PEACE to be one of the great American novels.	2005-09-22
51198:US	52966385	R3LAVRA99DEQUD	0916260879	755119363	The Complete Book of Speech Communication: A Workbook of Ideas and Activities for Students of Speech and Theatre	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Very Useful Tool.	Many of the things that a teacher is taught in school about what one should teach and how one should teach really aren't that useful once a teacher actually starts teaching. Not only that, but many beginning teachers struggling with teaching the things they want to teach in a way that excites students and causes them to want to learn.  Speech classes at the secondary level are no different than classes anywhere else and public speaking/speech teachers struggle just as much as any othe teacher with how to make lesson practical and applicable in the classroom.<br /><br />THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SPEECH COMMUNICATION is a great tool for any speech teacher looking for ideas to use in the classroom. As a beginning teacher, I have found it incredibly valuable. I have found it especially useful in trying to create lesson plans and to find fun ideas for fillers to use at the end of a class. The book is full of ideas and covers many of the areas of public speaking from informative speeches, impromptu speeches, oral interpretation, persuasive speeches, reader's theatre, just to name a few. It's a wonderful resource.	2005-09-16
52453:US	52966385	R2L2BB82O1ZVNB	0375826092	572508990	Obi-Wan's Foe (Star Wars Revenge of the Sith, Jedi Readers, Step 4)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Battle Is Joined.	OBI-WAN'S FOE is a book written for young Star Wars fans that describes the final battle between Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and the Separatist military commander, General Grievous.  Like all sci-fi books oriented towards young readers, there are some words in the book that the target audience might have difficulty in understanding.  There are a few differences between this book and REVENGE OF THE SITH and the REVENGE OF THE SITH novelization, e.g. there is no mention of a giant metal windmill in the movie or novel.  Those few discrepancies aside, OBI-WAN'S FOE does contain a treat that is difficult to come by:  an illustration of what General Grievous looked like before he became a cyborg trained in the Jedi arts.  Speaking of illustrations, those are what make this book so different from many of the other young reader STAR WARS books on the market.  Most of STAR WARS books aimed at kids are full of pictures from the films.  OBI-WAN'S FOE takes a different route and instead of being filled with digitalized pictures, is full of brilliant and exciting drawings illustrated by Tommy Lee Edwards.  Overall, a fairly exciting episode from REVENGE OF THE SITH told in a way that young fans will enjoy that includes some great illustrations, including one of a pre-cyborg General Grievous.	2005-09-15
63710:US	52966385	R2EXHU1U2TK83U	075661161X	50039145	Star Wars: Star Pilot (DK READERS)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Flying Through the Galaxy.	STAR PILOTS is actually an inaccurate title for this young readers Star Wars book. The book really doesn't have much to say about pilots, but is all about space craft flown in the Star Wars universe. While there are a few non-space vehicles described, e.g. podracers, most of the book is dedicated to famous Star Wars vehicles.  X-Wings, TIE Fighters, the Millenium Falcon, the Executor, Slave 1, and the Invisible Hand are all mentioned as well as escape pods and Republican gunships.  The book is filled with pictures from the movies, which makes it attractive for young readers. Though this is a level 3 book, many of the words seem more difficult than that too me. However, the books chronological order makes it easier to make sense of it all. Overall, this is a great book for young Star Wars fans.	2005-09-09
68921:US	52966385	R210DRAVXYVOL4	0394587995	44276819	Rumors	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A Modern Farce.	RUMORS was first performed in the early days of the 1990s.  So much has changed since then. Yet, one of the tests of a classic is it's staying power. Though I wouldn't say that RUMORS is a classical comedy, it is a modern gem that has staying power.<br /><br />RUMORS was written by Neil Simon. It takes place in upper Manahattan at the home of Charley and Myra Brock.  The Brock's are holding a party to celebrate their 10th Wedding Anniversary. However, the first guests to arrive at the home, Ken and Chris Gorman, hear a gun shot.  They find Charley upstairs bleeding from the head, Myra and the servants missing, and a bunch of frozen and half-thawed food in the kitchen. Soon after the other couples for the parties begin arriving and the Gormans do everything they can to keep the truth from leaking out until they figure out exactly what has happened.<br /><br />I've acted in RUMORS twice and have thorougly enjoyed it both times.  Performing in a Neil Simon play is always fun. However, the play does have one drawback.  In his early days, Simon kept his plays from being too vulgar. However, since the mid 1980s, Simon's plays have become increasingly filled with foul language, making many of his unaltered shows unfit for family audiences.  RUMORS was written near the beginning of this pattern, so though it's no ODD COUPLE, it's not as bad as some of his later shows either.	2005-09-07
78129:US	52966385	R2RJCTURLEF3I9	0843102713	226594081	The Boy Who Looked Like Lincoln	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Funny Story with an Enduring Message	Poor Benjy. He's only eight years-old, but he looks just like Abe Lincoln. He's got the whiskers, the mole, even the furrowed forehead. The poor kid is made fun of constantly and ends up dressing the same every year for Halloween. One summer, his parents send Benjy away to camp. But this isn't just any ordinary camp. This is a camp for people that look like things. There's a kid who has a head like a toaster, another who looks like the Titanic, one who looks like a football, and there's even one kid who looks like a horse's behind. Benjy returns home having learned an important lesson about life: it's not really on the outside what counts when the chips are down, but the character of a person on the inside.<br /><br />As for the so-called controversy surrounding this book, ignore it. Basically, Benjy has a younger brother named Dickie who looks just like Richard Nixon. I don't know how, but there are some people who think that a baby who looks like Richard Nixon is pornographic. That makes no sense at all. It's not even plausible.	2005-09-02
91336:US	52966385	R1CVLG6Z3PZT0R	0964097818	37375627	The Puzzle of Ancient Man: Advanced Technology in Past Civilizations?	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Lessons From the Past.	THE PUZZLE OF ANCIENT MAN attempts to illustrate to readers how the ruins of ancient cultures and technology fits into a Biblical world view. The book is full of citations to support its claims and unlike other books I have read on similar subjects, most of the sources were fairly current to the book's original publication.  THE PUZZLE OF ANCIENT MAN does a great job of explaining how the technology of past civilizations actually supports a Biblical world view. Those who are already Christians, those who hold a similar world view to a Biblical one, and those who are thinking of converting to Christianity are the ones who will probably profit most by reading this book.  Much of the knowledge discussed in THE PUZZLE OF ANCIENT MAN are things I already knew or had heard about before. Despite this foreknowledge and, also, the random tangents the author seemed to go off upon every once in awhile, I enjoyed reading the book.	2005-08-26
106328:US	52966385	R111JQXLEUT1R0	1594674574	677463996	Hear Him! the One Hundred Twenty-Five Commands of Jesus	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Well Researched.	The author of HEAR HIM! writes in the preface of the book that the book was written for several reasons:  \\"(1)satisfying my own personal curiosity concerning the specifics of Jesus' commands; (2)unraveling doctrinal confusion being experienced at my local church on related subjects; (3)improving accessibility to the commands by simply listing them numerically; and (4)satisfying what has been an unanticipated, and unremitting, spiritual urgency for their publication.\\"  It is important to keep these reasons in mind as one reads HEAR HIM! because though the linguistics in the Gospels of Jesus' commands are heavily researched and the 125 different commands covered have importance, the book is very personal and at times reads more as a personal journal than a book for public consumption.<br /><br />Though the book contains a preface, a couple of appendixes, a glossary, and other items, there are really two parts to the book: the introduction and the list of the 125 commands themselves.  The introduction is rather lengthy; at 86 pages it's almost as long as the list of commands themselves. In the introduction the author explains how the book came to be and how all of Jesus commands mentioned in the Bible were narrowed down to the 125 listed and briefly unpacked in the book.  The commands themselves are listed in no particular order.  Each one of the commands listed includes a brief paragraph explanation, a clause on the context of the command, and scriptural references.  Some of the enteries also include the original Greek words for the verbs of the commands.<br /><br />As far as reading goes, HEAR HIM! isn't a book that just anyone would be interested in reading.  Stictly as a source of reading, the book doesn't read all that well.  I am very interested in the source material, but found myself quite bored at times when reading and instead of deriving pleasure or spiritual enlightenment felt I was forcing myself through some sort of difficult manual mental labor. However, though the book doesn't appear to be meant as a devotional, it is much easier to read one or two of the commands at a time rather than reading them in huge chunks.  If one keeps this in mind before reading the book, I think they will get more out of it.  Also, despite my difficulties in making it through the text, after reading the book I found it refreshing to have spent time reading the commands that Jesus spoke.<br /><br />Overall, a very well researched book about some of Jesus commands that works better as a devotional rather than a source of free reading.ver, though the book doesn't appear to be meant as a devotional, it is much easier to read one or two of the commands at a time rather than reading them in huge chunks.  If one keeps this in mind before reading the book, I think they will get more out of it.  Also, despite my difficulties in making it through the text, after reading the book I found it refreshing to have spent time reading the commands that Jesus spoke. <br /> <br />Overall, a very well researched book about some of Jesus commands that works better as a devotional rather than a source of free reading.	2005-08-17
109843:US	52966385	R31BK0VCRSA861	0761541799	774845535	Fable (Prima Official Game Guide)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Helpful.	I found this guide very helpful in playing FABLE.  Using it I was able to find all the silver keys, open all the demon doors, and find just the right tatoo to give my character.  I did find one major flaw with the book, however.  Even though it explains where each of the Treasure Clues are, it doesn't actually tell you the exact place where the buried lost treasure is. But, other than that, it's a very useful guide.	2005-08-15
117364:US	52966385	R30UI3II74UN2W	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To Wit.	I've had friends and acquaintances recommending this book to me for years and I finally decided to read it before going off to see the movie version.  Though the book might seem a bit disjointed, there is a plot to the events the occur. Arthur Dent is a typical middle-aged British male that awakes to find that his home is in the process of being destroyed to make room for a national interstate.  Moments later, Arthur is saved from the planet Earth by his friend, Ford Prefect, just seconds before the planet is destroyed to make room for an intergalactic freeway.  Talk about the irony.<br /><br />And that's pretty much how the whole book moves along.  There are some wonderful witty lines spoken and keen observations stated about human nature.  These are what make up the book's core. However, in all the witty nonsensicalness, don't loose sight of the plot: that this is a movie about a lost man trying to find his place in the universe. So, so long and thanks for all the fishes.	2005-08-11
226364:US	52966385	R2DSMWQVF4UXDE	1932586296	830117293	The Toonies Invade Silicon Valley	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Cartoons Are Alive.	Jeremy Kern is a young adolescent who animates a popular cartoon strip loosely based upon events of his own life. Jeremy started the strip as a way to deal with some of the problems he was going through. He never thought it would take off like it did, but his strip became a huge success. But Jeremy's parents are fighting alot and thoughts of divorce are being thrown around. Jeremy doesn't know what to do. Until a couple of characters from Cartoon Land start speaking with Jeremy. With Jeremy's help, they leave Cartoon Land and try to help Jeremy with his problem.  But the act of kindness by a couple of toonies sets into motion a series of unfortunate events that causes the evil Dab to escape from Cartoon Land and attempt to take over our world.<br /><br />THE TOONIES INVADE SILICON VALLEY is written as a young adult/children's novel and readers that age and younger will probably enjoy the story very much--I know when I was younger I wondered if it was possible to bring cartoon characters to life. The story is fairly short and easy to read.  Also, though it is set in Silicon Valley, the story has a warm and friendly, down-home feel to it that appeals to a wide variety of readers.<br /><br />Some of the dialogue seems a bit stale and there are some references in the story that anyone not familiar with Silicon Valley might not understand.  However, some of the ideas in the story or creative (characters from Cartoon Land eat ink) and as a whole the book appeals to not only children, but the child in all of us. A nice, little tale that can spark the imagination in young readers.	2005-05-27
253732:US	52966385	R1P4MXRO1A1HOO	0131838520	813017205	Exploring Microsoft Office 2003 Volume 1 (Grauer Exploring Office 2003 Series)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	An Extended Handbook to Microsoft Office.	EXPLORING MICROSOFT OFFICE 2003 VOLUME 1 is a textbook that is basically an extended handbook on Microsoft Office. The book has what I would consider six major sections: basics of Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, the Internet and the world wide web, and some essential computing concepts. The sections dealing with Windows, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint contain all kinds of helpful hands-on exercises. The Internet and essential computing concepts sections don't have quite as many exercises and contain a little more book rather than hands-on knowledge. To be completely honest, this book is rather boring to read and work through on one's own. However, when used in conjuncture with a class, it makes a great tool.	2005-05-03
254336:US	52966385	R2I2RRQ7VSKREF	0823952576	494812821	Kids During the Age of Exploration (Kids Throughout History)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Look at the Old World Life in the New World of History.	Young Miguel is a little more lucky than many of the other KIDS DURING THE AGE OF EXPLORATION. Miguel's father is a silk importer which allows Miguel to live the life of the newly rising middle class. Miguel doesn't have to work as hard as other children his age, but he does spend most of his time working as the apprentice of a mapmaker. His special training and skills allow him to travel throughout the New World on many exciting journeys.<br /><br />Interspersed with the very loosely-connected story of Miguel are all kinds of facts about life in Spain during the 1500s. Subjects covered include Spanish sailing ships, trade, map making, animals of the New World, housing structures, and a few other topics. Each page of the book is accompanied by either a reproduction of a historical painting, illustration, or map that further illustrates the text. The last part of the book is a glossary that explains most of the new words that are introuduced in the book.<br /><br />KIDS DURING THE AGE OF EXPLORATION isn't the best children's book about the Age of Exploration because it solely focuses on Spanish exploration. However, the book contains quite a bit of information for kids and the vivid accompanying pictures and illustrations are a huge bonus. Recommened for 1st & 2nd grade students.	2005-05-03
254637:US	52966385	R24AWRZPR8OPD4	0879057297	220913756	Countdown to 2000 : A Kid's Guide to the New Millennium	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Predicting the Future--From a Kid's Point of View	Now that the 21st century is well on the way, I've found myself being drawn to books written in the 20th century talking about the 21st century. I find it both amusing and fascinating to see what authors were writing and predicting about \\"the future.\\" COUNTDOWN TO 2000 is one such book, but written for kids.  The book is written kind of as a prediction book/scrapbook combo and includes four major sections.<br /><br />The first section explains where the word millennium came from, how the modern calendar came to be, and some suggestions on creating a time capsule. The second section is all about predictions. Predictions about the end of the world, robots, space exploration, and the environment. There's also a sections about science fiction and about what life was like around the year 999. The third section is also about predictions, but more on a personal level: the types of food people will eat, the clothes people will wear, how people will shop, the types of jobs, and how people will entertain themselves. The final section of the book is the major scrapbook feature and provides a place where people can record all sorts of events for the next 6 years (1996-2001): height, weight, friends, favorites songs, favorite teachers, favorite movies, etc.<br /><br />I've always found the majority of children's prediction books to be funny. For example, the clothing section in COUNTDOWN TO 2000 makes the prediction that in the new millennium \\"space-age-fashion\\" (sterile white clothing with shiny metal)will be all the rage. This is a prediction that I have read in books for the past twenty years and it has yet to come to pass.  Of course, there are some predictions made in the book that have become a reality. Back in 1996 the Internet had just started to enter the public mainstream and the book predicts that the Internet will play a huge role in the future and commands readers to \\"get prepared--the internet is coming to you.\\"  That's a prediction that did become a reality because most kids today can't imagine life without the Internet.<br /><br />Besides the predictions and some simple games, COUNTDOWN TO 2000 also includes several interesting tidbits of information. For example, in 1957 a \\"House of the Future\\" was built at Disneyland that was made totally from plastic. Ten years later when the house was to be demolished for a new exhibit--the wrecking ball bounced off the surface and the house had to be taken apart by hand.<br /><br />Overall, I enjoyed reading COUNTDOWN TO 2000. Though the book offers some educational and entertainment value, most kids won't have much interest, except those that will be amused by the book's (often hilarious) predictions.cause most kids today can't imagine life without the Internet. <br /> <br />Besides the predictions and some simple games, COUNTDOWN TO 2000 also includes several interesting tidbits of information. For example, in 1957 a \\"House of the Future\\" was built at Disneyland that was made totally from plastic. Ten years later when the house was to be demolished for a new exhibit--the wrecking ball bounced off the surface and the house had to be taken apart by hand. <br /> <br />Overall, I enjoyed reading COUNTDOWN TO 2000. Though the book offers some educational and entertainment value, most kids won't have much interest, except those that will be amused by the book's (often hilarious) predictions.	2005-05-03
254913:US	52966385	RE9ACR09VNGEA	0060974990	177861916	Savage Inequalities: Children in America's Schools	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Illustrating the Gap.	Jonathan Kozol's SAVAGE INEQUALITIES is one of the best books ever published that illustrates the dual nature of the American public education system and how unfair that system is. The book looks at the poor urban schools in six different areas in the U.S. displaying the challenges the teachers, administrators, and most importantly the students of those schools have to face each day. Kozol points out in the book how that even though public education probably isn't the social panacea that so many have promised it to be, it is something that we require of all children and therefore, we should provide all children with the best possible education that is equal across the board. The book also displays that many of the inequalities that exist in our public education system are based upon racist public policies controlled by local and state governments (and which are now supported by the federal government). The problem is ginormous--but it has to be addressed. We gamble with children and our nation's own future each time we ignore the problem.<br /><br />In recent years, SAVAGE INEQUALITIES has been critized for it's accurate portrayal, but for offering no solution. Those who hold that view fail to recognize Kozol's intent in writing this book. Most people today have no idea that the situation in public schools is so bad, let alone in 1990 when SAVAGE INEQUALITIES was first published. The book caused a controversy at schools around the country and its brutal examination led a small handful of schools to pass major reforms. However, most, if not all of the problems that Kozol raised have still not been adequately addressed. Things in East St. Louis have improved somewhat, but the kids there are still being shortchanged. The Chicago Public School system has reformed and tightened their teaching requirements, but unequal funding still exists and the New York City Public School system hasn't seen any changes--kids still go to school in a windowless roller skate rink there. I went back to school to get my teaching certification and only live 50 miles from East St. Louis and I had no idea things are bad as they are. SAVAGE INEQUALITIES opened my eyes and I'll never be the same. It's one of those rare books that can change your outlook forever, especially someone going into education.I went back to school to get my teaching certification and only live 50 miles from East St. Louis and I had no idea things are bad as they are. SAVAGE INEQUALITIES opened my eyes and I'll never be the same. It's one of those rare books that can change your outlook forever, especially someone going into education.	2005-05-03
254965:US	52966385	R2LCY0763RFIV2	0534631479	638083645	Why Nations Go to War	Books	4	10	10	N	N	On the 9th Edition.	I read the 9th edition of WHY NATIONS GO TO WAR in a college interdisciplinary class about the Problem of War & Peace. The book is divided into ten different sections and covers what it lumps together as 9 major wars (the author considers several small wars as coninuations of other wars): WWI, WWII, The Korean War, The Vietnam War, the Bosnian War, the wars between India & Pakistan, the wars between Israel and Arab countries, Saddam Hussein's wars against Iran & Kuwait, the War in Afghanistan & the American-Iraqi War. The last section of the book provides the authors thesis to the question the title of the book raises, why do nations go to war?<br /><br />I didn't agree with everything that the author wrote. Also, though the book is heavily researched, there are some errors (for instance, recently released documents have proven that the Chinese were working together with the Soviets during the Korean War and weren't just planning on, but were intending for the U.S. to invade North Korea--it was essential to their military strategy). Despite these disagreements and flaws, I found the book fascinating. It provides a fairly thorough backdrop for most of the conflicts it talks about and though the author's assessments of the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq are questionable, it still provides for a thought-provoking read.<br /><br />Stoessinger's general thesis to the question of \\"why do nations go to war?\\" is that nations don't actually go to war, but the leaders of those nations do. He seems to contend that it isn't the people of the countries who are necessarily at fault and instead, the people in charge are the ones who should be held most responsible. Though there is some truth to this assertion, blaming any single person for a war is a bit absurd. The American Wild West no longer exists. Nations go to war--not people.  Stoessinger seems to believe that except in extreme cases (WW II, Bosnian War) war is unnecessary. I tend to accept a more Hobbesian view of human nature and believe that despite the best human efforts, in the fallen world in which we live, war is inevitable. However, though I disagree, I really enjoyed reading the book and found the epilogue especially moving. Recommened for anyone who has an interest in world affairs and history.uman nature and believe that despite the best human efforts, in the fallen world in which we live, war is inevitable. However, though I disagree, I really enjoyed reading the book and found the epilogue especially moving. Recommened for anyone who has an interest in world affairs and history.	2005-05-03
268268:US	52966385	RKSMKTXXKER9D	0425203859	355458088	Their Last Words: A Tribute to Soldiers Who Lost Their Lives in Afghanistan and IraqFamilies and Friends Share Stories, Photos and Last LettersHome From the Front	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Tribute of Sorts.	THEIR LAST WORDS is a collection of stories, letters, and emails constructed together as a tribute to some of the soldiers who have lost their lives fighting in Iraq. The lives of 14 different soldiers are told in this book. The soldiers profiled all lived a variety of lives: some were men, some were women, some were white, some black, some were young, some were about ready to retire, some were in support of the war in Iraq, some were opposed to it. However, each and everyone of them shared a love for their country and fought and served bravely because despite their differences, they knew that what they were fighting for was something bigger than themselves. Each section of the book includes at least one personal email or letter written by each soldier. Some of these were their last pieces of correspondence before being killed. I got choked up a couple times while reading this book and I feel it really captures the essence of what each of these individuals sacrificed to protect.  Reading this helped make the war in Iraq more personal for me.	2005-04-22
268486:US	52966385	R2JSQLI2QCLLGJ	0756611636	996205432	Star Wars: Galactic Crisis!	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Origins of Darth Vader.	STAR WARS: GALACTIC CRISIS! is a Level 4 DK Readers children's book. It was written for youngsters who have a proficient reading level in mind. The book tells the story told in the first three episodes of George Lucas Star Wars saga: THE PHANTOM MENACE, ATTACK OF THE CLONES, and REVENGE OF THE SITH. The book is filled with pictures from all three movies and includes a vocabulary at the end of the book. This book is intended for children, but adults who are Star Wars fans can enjoy it, too--it actually filled in a couple of gaps from THE PHANTOM MENACE and ATTACK OF THE CLONES that I didn't get from just watching the films. Overall, a great gift for young Star Wars fans.	2005-04-22
286511:US	52966385	R3MJA46UZNH59K	0062511904	206239700	I Can't Accept Not Trying: Michael Jordan on the Pursuit of Excellence	Books	4	17	19	N	N	The Greatest Basketball Player of All-Time Speaks.	I CAN'T ACCEPT NOT TRYING is a small inspiration book written by the greatest basketball player of all time, Michael Jordan. Jordan had an unbelievable career in the NBA before retiring, tried playing major league baseball, came back to the NBA to lead the Chicago Bulls to a few more championships, then retired again, then came out of retirement again to play for the Washington Wizards--a team he had owned for over a year, before retiring for a third time in 2003. This little book was published just prior to Jordan's first return to basketball after his first \\"retirement\\". It was one of many items to fuel the media hype about his return.<br /><br />There really isn't very much here. The book is only 36 pages long, is divided up into 6 sections, and includes a few posed pictures. The 6 sections are: goals, fears, commitment, teamwork, fundamentals, and leadership. Jordan shares a few personal thoughts and recollections in each section. Though there are one or two nuggets into the mind of Jordan, there isn't anything here that is new, original, or groundbreaking. Still, most people want to be like Mike and it is one of the few things Jordan ever wrote. It makes a nice little gift for Jordan fans, or someone who likes basketball and is getting ready to graduate high school.	2005-04-07
292211:US	52966385	R110CXM4CV89YP	076110884X	404408542	Bone Poems	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"The Knee Bone is Connected to the Leg Bone."	BONE POEMS is a collection of poems written by Jeff Moss which were inspired by and researched at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. These poems are both fun to read and educational. Many of them are also highly humurous. For example, \\"Ostracoderms\\"<br /><br />\\"Ostracoderms\\"<br /><br />Ostracoderms were ancient fish<br /><br />Who had no jaws to chew.<br /><br />With open mouths their food was slurped<br /><br />As water filtered through.<br /><br />Perhaps that's why ostracoderms<br /><br />Kept such a pleasant mood--<br /><br />They never had to hear their moms<br /><br />Say, \\"Henry, chew your food!\\"<br /><br />Besides the poems, the book also includes a mini-comic book telling two sides of a story involving a rhinoceros and an elephant. The end of the book includes a pronunciation guide illustrating how to pronounce all the different animals and many other difficult words found throughout the book. A wonderful gift for any child who likes dinosaurs, bones, or poetry.	2005-04-02
292291:US	52966385	R28E60JSTRW2I7	1932124268	588213007	The Meeting of Anni Adams: The Butterfly of Luxembourg	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Truly Living Life	Everyone has a story to tell. Most are lost forever because people fail to pass them on. Others are written down and persevered through time. Once the main actors and even the storytellers themselves have passed away, the stories often remain for generation after generation as a testimony to how things once were, as a warning to those in the future, and as an example that a person can live a life with purpose and meaning and make a difference in the world. THE MEETING OF ANNI ADAMS is one such story.<br /><br />The book tells the life story of a woman who was born & raised in Luxembourg during the first part of the 20th century. Her maiden name was Anni Neuman. She was born on Armistice Day (November 11th) 1926. From reading the book it appears Luxembourg didn't suffer as much as many other places in the world did during the Great Depression, but the people suffered cruelly during the outbreak of WWII. Anni and her family were forced to flee into France with the advancing German army just miles behind them. In France they lived for a few months as refugees before being force to return home under German rule. At the end of the war, Anni met an American soldier named Charlie Adams. The two fell in love and were eventually married. Later Anni moved to New York to be with Charlie and the two began building their life together. Charlie and Anni owned and operated a very successful flower shop and through that venture came to meet several famous people.<br /><br />THE MEETING OF ANNI ADAMS is Mr. Story's first book and it's fairly well-written for an initial publication. The book has an occasional spelling & grammatical error here and there. There are also sections of the book that tend to be long and drawn out and the repetitive butterfly metaphor is probably used more than it should. Despite these minor flaws and distractions, the story told is an interesting one and one that I am glad to have read. The heart of the story are the events that happened during WWII and I found those parts of the book to be the most rewarding. I have never heard before about what happened to Luxembourg and the people who lived there during WWII. Now I do. I especially recommend this book for those interested in WWII, anyone who likes biographies, and anyone who is dealing with a hardship in their life.ound those parts of the book to be the most rewarding. I have never heard before about what happened to Luxembourg and the people who lived there during WWII. Now I do. I especially recommend this book for those interested in WWII, anyone who likes biographies, and anyone who is dealing with a hardship in their life.	2005-04-02
295188:US	52966385	R106COGQP0H69M	0606331018	87156986	Smart About Chocolate: A Sweet History (Smart About History)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Something Truly Bitter-Sweet.	SMART ABOUT CHOCOLATE: A SWEET HISTORY is one of the SMART ABOUT series of children's books. These books are written and designed to inform students about a wide variety of topics that they probably have some interest in, but don't know much about. The books are written in the form of an essay that a \\"student\\" writes for a school report.  CHOCOLATE: A SWEET HISTORY is filled with all kinds of photographs and illustrations that complement the information it contains. The book gives a history of chocolate and how it was first used, how it has changed moving from one continent to the next, and how it is produced. The book is only 30 pages long but is very informative. For instance, I learned from reading this book that the scientific name fro the cacao tree is theobroma cacao which literally means \\"food of the goods\\". I also learned that most of the worlds cacao beans are imported from Africa and that the Aztecs found cacao beans so valuable that they eventually started using them as money. The book is very colorful and has plenty of illustrations to catch even the most disengaged of young readers attention. Towards the end of the book a recipe for making chocolate yum-yums appears. The final page of the book is a sort of bibliography that lists a few other titles that student might be interesting in reading if they like chocolate. Overal, a tasty bit of reading.	2005-03-31
295808:US	52966385	R1A2JIPO4XVQOU	0451204069	401420958	Forbidden Fruit Creates Many Jams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Entertaining & Thought-Provoking.	The United States of America has all kinds of unique cultural phenomena. American football is pretty much a solely American sport. Wal-Marts and McDonalds are now spreading around the globe like spores, but those multi-billion dollar business would never have survived past an initial store in any other country in the world. Another uniquely piece of American culture are billboards and road signs. A sub-category of these would be church signs which though contain all the pertinent information about services and such, often include some sort of short message that changes on a weekly basis.  Mary Katherine and David Compton enjoyed reading these signs as they traveled through the country and began collecting them in a notebook. This book is the \\"fruit\\" of their efforts. In 134 pages the authors include around 300 messages that they have seen on church signs over the years.  Some are humorous, some are thought-provoking, and a few are both.  Just a few samples include:<br /><br />\\"Creation bears God's autograph.\\"<br /><br />\\"Turn or Burn\\"<br /><br />\\"Christians never meet for the last time.\\"<br /><br />\\"Experts made the Titanic, amateurs made the ark.\\"<br /><br />The book makes a nice little gift for a Christian friend or family member and is also a nice resource for churches to have incase the usual message writer goes on vacation for a week.	2005-03-30
301735:US	52966385	RGF5DQYOIY2J5	0385722435	975747614	Ella Minnow Pea: A Novel in Letters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Power of Even a Simple Letter.	ELLA MINNOW PEA is written as a series of letters from one citizen in Nollop to another. Nollop is a small independent country just of the eastern coast of the United States. The small island is named afte Nevin Nollop, the man who is credited with trademarking the famous sentence, \\"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.\\" A statue of Nollop with the famous saying engrazed in tiles is found in the city square.  The Nollopians have become a people addicted to language because of their admiration for what Nollop was able to accomplish. But one night, the letter \\"Z\\" falls to the ground. An emergency council session is order and the ruling body of Nollop issues and order that the letter \\"z\\" will be totally outlawed. Three offenses and you are banished from the island forever. The library immediately is closed and people are charged with 1st and 2nd offenses left and right. And then more letters begin to fall. Soon the small island community finds itself in a fascist state and it leaves up to being one young woman, Ella Minnow Pea (LMNOP) to stop the chaos before the island is totally deserted and destroyed.<br /><br />This book is a pure delight to read for anyone who likes the English language. It's amazing how Dunn was able place such an interesting concept, yet remain true to it without failing. Those little letters, such as \\"z\\" and \\"q\\" are more important and useful than most people ever realize. Without them, we'd be living in the verges of chaos.	2005-03-25
302588:US	52966385	R16RY1XB9A8SEN	0689820305	688303799	Chimps Don't Wear Glasses	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Imaginative Illustrations.	CHIMPS DON'T WEAR GLASSES is a book written towards children illustrating how powerful one's imagination can be. Through a series of illustrations and text that covers the pictures, the book presents a world that would indeed be very wacky if chimps wore glasses. In such a world kangaroos read books, horses hang glide, mice are in the Boy Scouts, pandas pole vault, and many creatures obey a chipmunk who is king. The message of the book is very detailed and as written in the book is actually a bit confusing. Nevertheless, children will love looking at the book and all the crazy illustrations. Just don't ever get stuck by a giraffe on the interstate.	2005-03-25
302676:US	52966385	R26AFZRID2X24I	0590572814	526404478	The Story Of Ruby Bridges	Books	5	1	1	N	N	And a Child Shall Lead Us	THE STORY OF RUBY BRIDGES tells the fascinating tale of courageous Ruby Bridges, a young African-American who became the first black child to attend William Frantz Elementary School in New Orleans, Louisiana. The citizens of the city didn't take lightly to the integration that had been forced upon them and boycotted by not sending their children to school and by protesting every day that Ruby came to school. Ruby had to be escorted into the building each day by federal marshals and each day for several months, Ruby attended school alone. But Ruby believed in a power greater than any within herself. This is a delightful and very moving piece of children's literature.	2005-03-25
311042:US	52966385	R1J8SHUNJYHXYO	1854594400	537985518	A Flea in Her Ear	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A Sitcom Play.	A FLEA IN HER EAR (a more accurate translation of the title should have been A BEE IN HER BONNET) is probably Georges Feydeau's most well-known work. The play is a farce that examines both marriage and the bourgeoisie lifestlye. Victor-Emmanuel Chandebise has been having problems in bed recently. His wife, Raymonde, suspects that his lack of arousal is because he has been having an affair. In actuality Victor-Emmanuel has been seeking the help of a doctor for his problem and has been completely loyal and faithful to his wife. Raymonde, on the other hand has contemplated having an affair. Nevertheless, to deduce whether her husband has been faithful, she concocts what appears to be simple plan. She has a close friend write a letter to Victor-Emmanuel, pretending to be someone who saw him at the theatre and offering him a night of pleasure at the Hotel Casablanca. The simple plan soon becomes complex when Victor-Emmanuel gives the letter to his close friend, Tournel, who has been lusting for Raymonde. Meanwhile, a copy of the letter is found by the Spanish husband of Raymonde's friend and he leaves in a rage of vengenance convinced that his wife is up to no good. The action then proceeds to the hotel where the confusion continues to snowball as the drunken porter, Poche, is constantly mistaken for Victor-Emmanuel. The mistaken identity twist adds another level of hilarity to the mix. The final act of the play begins and ends back at the Chandebise home and everything is made right.<br /><br />This is a very difficult play to perform and direct and, like such a modern play as NOISES OFF, requires a great deal of practice to master the timing perfectly. The key to comedy is timing and A FLEA IN HER EAR illustrates that very well.<br /><br />This dramatic classics edition of the text includes an introduction to Feydeau and a time line of key dates in Feydeau's life.	2005-03-18
327773:US	52966385	R24MZSIW9ZFMAB	0816770093	185061220	Coming Home: A True Story of Josh Gibson, Baseball's Greatest Home Run Hitter	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Overlooked Baseball Legend.	Very few baseball fans, let alone people in general, have ever heard of a player named Josh Gibson. Gibson hit more homeruns than any professional baseball player ever and was considered one of the greatest ever to play the game.  But Gibson never gained the fame or recognition he deserved because he was black and was forced to play in the Negro League.  Gibson loved baseball and played it with a passion that many of today's million-dollar players have long since lost or never had.  From the stories I've heard, watching Gibson play was like watching Michael Jordan play basketball at the top of his game; there wasn't anything like it and there never would be again.  Gibson had hoped to eventually play in Major League Baseball and had inclinations of being the person to break the color barrier.  But the toils and hardships of a difficult life and the poverty of being a baseball player in the Negro Leagues affected his health and he died in 1947. He was only 35 years old. Just three months after his death Jackie Robinson became the first black player to play Major League Baseball when he was hired by the Brooklyn Dodgers.<br /><br />COMING HOME is a story about a grandfather telling his grandson about the best hitter he had ever seen.  Explaining some of the very basics of history, the grandfather tells his grandson about the time he saw Josh Gibson play in the Negro League Championship in Yankee Stadium. The story is well told and the illustrations of Cornelius Van Wright and Ying-Hwa Hu do a great job of augmenting the text (the illustration of the grandfather's father trying to rip his hat in two as Gibson strikes out is perfect).  This is a delightful book for anyone interested in baseball or black history. Reading it is a good start in helping to keep the memory of Josh Gibson alive.	2005-03-04
327971:US	52966385	R2K5E4L2E4J87K	0802787290	273288416	The Adventures of Marco and Polo	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exotic Friends Living Worlds Apart.	THE ADVENTURES OF MARCO AND POLO is a beautiful lavishly illustrated story about a monkey named Marco and a penguin named Polo.  Polo penguin awakes one morning to see smoke billowing over the horizon.  The smoke turns out to come from a cruise ship that drops off a monkey name Marco. Marco carries a camera and has come to explore the most exotic country he could find.  Polo Penguin shows him around, but things are too cold for Marco and he wants to return home.  Marco tells Polo that his home is always warm and Polo becomes intrigued with the idea of a place that is always warm and sets off to visit Marco's home. An international animal cultural exchange takes place. The two quickly become friends, but are troubled by the fact that neither one enjoys the climate of the other's home.  The final pages illustrate and describe what is done to reach a compromise.<br /><br />THE ADVENTURES OF MARCO AND POLO is a beautifully illustrated book. Even if children don't like the story, they will love looking at the pictures and the book is worth purchasing for those alone. However, the story is slightly charming and will amuse young children.	2005-03-04
328063:US	52966385	R2UK7C46U2M77V	0689845944	167553425	Kick the Football, Charlie Brown! (Peanuts Ready-To-Read)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	You Are the Man, Charlie Brown.	KICK THE FOOTBALL, CHARLIE BROWN is a level 2 Ready-to-Read book. The book is written towards younger readers who are just starting to read more complex stories, learning different sentence structures, how to form paragraphs, and what a chapter is. The words in the story aren't incredibly complex, but instead of the type of repition that is found in the Ready-to-Read Pre-Level 1 and Level 1 books, the story follows a type of constructionist approach and builds on the words and phrases children already know to introduce new words, phrases, and forms.<br /><br />This story is based off of the Charles Schulz' famous PEANUTS strip. Judy Katschke's text and Nick & Peter LoBianco's illustrations remain true to the spirit and intent of PEANUTS. In this particular story, Charlie Brown is once again attempting to kick the football away from Lucy who always pulls it away at the last moment. Time and time again he attempts and fails. At the end good old Chuck appears to have learned a lesson, but so do the rest of his friends.	2005-03-04
329243:US	52966385	RW9TT5EB3GK6U	0439569842	164062582	How Do Dinosaurs Learn to Read?	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Learning to Respect Books.	This extremely little short book (only 6 pages!!!) is written in the same style as Jane Yolen & Mark Teague's other dinosaur book collaborations together, such as HOW DO DINOSAURS SAY GOOD NIGHT? and HOW DO DINOSAURS GET WELL SOON? The book was created as a promotional item to teach kids to have good reading habits and to respect books. The illustrations are lively and the rhyming text delivers the message well. As short as it is, this could be one book that parents might not mind reading over and over.	2005-03-03
331625:US	52966385	RD9MXJ73S4J0M	0906464242	391244338	The Real McCoy.	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Black History in Britain.	This small book (126 pages with index) was written in the late 1980s and published in England. The book is very easy to read and contains many interesting tidbits about history that are unknown to most people. The theme of the book is that black people have had a long tradition of influencing, shaping, and changing the world since ancient times, but that many of the stories of great blacks have been lost in the retelling of history over times and through the standardization of textbooks and whatnot.  This book attempts to shatter some of the illusions we have come to believe as real and introduce some very influential blacks who have been almost completely forgotten by history.  The book is written in an \\"A to Z\\" format with at least one invention or idea discussed under each letter.  Just a sampling of some of the people mentioned includes Benjamin Banneker, Dr. Patricia Cowings, Dr. Charles Drew, Lewis Latimer, Matthew Henson, Jane Wright, and \\"Real\\" McCoy.  The book has too distinct benefits. One, it is a fairly decent attempt at introducing youngsters to the rather powerful (though less prominent) influence that blacks have had throughout history. Secondly, because the book is written in a semi-poetic style that is very simple to read it is a good book to use in teaching people how to read.  Some of the books rather general claims might be questionable because of things that have been discovered in recent years, but other than that, it's a nice, short, little book.	2005-03-01
336775:US	52966385	R1ZNVJS1SBKA29	1583340602	712340769	Child's Book of Wisdom, A	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Decent Introductory Quote Book for Young Children.	A CHILD'S BOOK OF WISDOM is a book of quotes specially edited for children. The book is very short (around 122 pages) and is divided into 12 different sections, ranging from quotes about \\"being kind to others\\" to those about \\"telling the truth\\" to \\"having fun\\" to \\"minding your manners\\" and to \\"words to the wise.\\"  The quotes are very short and come from a huge variety of sources: Sir James Barrie (the guy who wrote Peter Pan), Philo, Ben Franklin, Aesop, Samuel Johnson, Teddy Roosevelt, Davy Crockett, Babe Ruth, James Thurber, Aristotle, Barbara Jordan, Leo Tolstoy, and the Bible are just a few of the sources quoted from. Each section in the book includes a page introduction about the value being extolled.  Also, almost every quote has a short sentence or two describing the person who said or wrote the quote. The book has only one flaw. The editor/author mentions at the beginning that some of the quotes have been slightly altered so that children can understand them better. I am totally against modifications like this. We underestimate children far too often and I though there are some things that they simply cannot comprehend, I don't believe we should dumb down other people's works. This is supposed to be a book of quotes, so it should have the original quotes regardless of the age group that the book is aimed towards. Despite this, the book is put together fairly well and would make a great small gift or stocking stuffer for a young child already fascinated by words.	2005-02-25
339429:US	52966385	R2VFRE24BPB0FH	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Writing Vs. Bad History and Controversial Thesis	THE DA VINCI CODE is the 2nd book in a series of books surrounding the character of Robert Langdon. Langdon made his first appearance in ANGELS AND DEMONS and not only single-handedly saved the world, but helped &#34;reform&#34; the Catholic church as well. Superman might be able to fly and see through walls, the X-Men can do all sorts of superhuman feats because of their mutant genes, and Batman protects Gotham City because of the very technological (and expensive) gadgets at his disposal, but all these superheroes would be hard pressed to match the mastermind and wit of Harvard symbologist, Robert Langdon. In ANGELS AND DEMONS he saved the world in less than 24 hours. In THE DA VINCI CODE Langdon's on a quest even more important than saving the world.<br /><br />THE DA VINCI CODE begins about a year after the events of ANGELS AND DEMONS have taken place (don't be alarmed if you haven't read ANGELS AND DEMONS, references to the events of that book are few and far between). Robert Langdon is in his hotel room in Paris when he is disturbed by the arrival of Captain Bezu Fache. Langdon is informed that there has been a murder at the Louvre and that his expertise is needed in helping solve the crime. As it turns out, Fache strongly suspects Langdon of the crime and is hoping that Langdon's assistance will be his own undoing--ala the Columbo technique. Unfortunately for Fache, the murdered museum's curator has left a message behind for his granddaughter, Sophie Neveu, a code breaker on the Paris police force. The message leads Sophie to assist Langdon in his escape and thus begins another 24-hour adventure that takes Langdon across France and to England in search of one of the greatest historical and archeological discoveries of all time: the &#34;Holy Grail.&#34;<br /><br />Despite a series of murders and a mysterious albino priest, THE DA VINCI CODE actually moves fairly slowly in the beginning. The first half of the book tends to jump around a lot and includes a lot of exposition. It isn't until Langdon and Sophie leave the Lourve and head towards the Swiss bank that things begin to pick up. The book then moves at a modest pace until the duo meet up with Sir Leigh Teabing. Once he reveals the &#34;big secret&#34; the book becomes a page turner until the end.<br /><br />As far as writing styles go, THE DA VINCI CODE isn't all that great. It's a decent mystery/suspense novel and some of the imagery in the book is fairly descriptive, especially the more &#34;action&#34; oriented passages. However, THE DA VINCI CODE isn't written as well as ANGELS AND DEMONS. That book, though a piece of pop literia as well, was fairly tight with enough diversions to forgive the plot holes and discrepancies. THE DA VINCI CODE isn't like that. It's patterned after ANGELS AND DEMONS and like most sequels, it's just not as good.<br /><br />Now, as for the theme of the novel, I'm not sure why this book has taken off the way it has because overall it's just an average mystery/suspense novel. The book does present a very controversial idea-that Jesus wasn't the Son of God, that he married Mary Magdalene, they had children, and their descendants are still alive today. Combined with ideas presented in ANGELS AND DEMONS, it does seem that Brown as an agenda to debunk the Christin faith. He does an interesting job of mixing a tad historical facts; lots of fiction, conspiracy theories, and suppositions; and a whole lot of cultural references to make the idea seem not only plausible, but also believable. To make the theme seem even more believable he takes an idea from satiric and comic writers and introduces a statement at the beginning of the book that says something to the effect that &#34;all the organizations, histories, descriptions, etc. within this book are true and based on fact&#34;. The majority of the book has about as much fact in it as William Golding put in THE PRINCESS BRIDE.<br /><br />Overall, an average mystery/action/suspense novel with a very controversial proposal that makes for interesting fiction, but has no basis in fact.ery controversial proposal that makes for interesting fiction, but has no basis in fact.	2005-02-23
341015:US	52966385	R2VUDJIPWFR08R	052897470X	121541087	Rand McNally St. Louis, Missouri: Regional Map	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Don't Leave Home Without It.	St. Louis is really a great city. They have one of the best zoos in the country and it's FREE to attend. The city also offers an amazing Science Center, a beautiful art museum, and an impressive history museum also all FREE. There's Busch Stadium (soon to be demolished), the Botanical Gardens, Grant's Farm, City Museum, the Edward Jones Dome, not to mention all the theatres, concert halls, and other attractions.  But, if you're not from the area, it's very easy to get lost. After all, some things are in St. Louis and some places are in nearby St. Charles or St. Peters and for an outsider it could get confusing. Besides, even though St. Louis is probably one of the most friendly cities in the country, there are still certain areas that you just don't want to be driving around lost in the middle of the night. That's why this map is such a handy item to own. There's lots and lots of details and things are pretty straight-forward and clear so that it's easy to find where a particular street is. Just be sure to study the map before you leave and not at night.	2005-02-22
346962:US	52966385	R3QD4E5LCTJFSS	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Return of the Original Supers.	KINGDOM COME is a graphic novel set against the backdrop of a world in which the supers aren't all that super anymore.  Superman when into self-exile years ago after the murder of his beloved Lois at the hands of the Joker. The Joker was later killed by the superhero, Magog, who leads a new band of superheroes. Magog and his crew act not only as both judge and jury, but in some cases as executioner as well; something in which Superman and his gang did everything they possibly could to stay away from.  In a scene reminiscent of how WWI began, Magog and company continually become more and more aggressive in their campaign against evil doers until one day Magog wipes out almost the entire state of Kansas. After that, Wonder Woman comes knocking on Superman's door at the Fotress of Solitude and convinces him to return. He does and gathers together most of the members of the Justice League of America. The group declares an ultimatum to the new, younger superheroes (or metahumans as they are now called) that it's time the either shape up or be shipped out.  A new prison is built to hold those who won't obey and soon order seems to be established upon the chaos.<br /><br />Meanwhile, an elderly pastor, named Norman McCay, is having a crisis of faith when he is visited by Spectre. Spectre warns McCay of a coming crisis that will destroy not only the world, but the universe. Spectre guides McCay through the events to come, but a twist of action causes McCay to not only witness what is to occur, but actually become a crucial part of it as well.<br /><br />Back with Superman. Previous to the all-out war that breaks loose after the metahuman prison is cracked open, Bruce Wayne and Lex Luthor make an agreement and become partners in what appears to be the formation of a New World Order. Meanwhile, Superman is busy trying to keep things under control while struggling with the growing love and passion he feels towards Wonder Woman. You know something big has to happen.<br /><br />KINGDOME COME is one of the most beautiful graphic comics I have seen. The story and illustrations truly go together and though one could exist without the other, neither is whole unless they are together. There are tons of allusions made to D.C. history, not too mention all the cultural, religious, and mythological references. Plus the book ends on a very promising proposition and one that deserves to be explored more thoroughly.<br />KINGDOME COME is one of the most beautiful graphic comics I have seen. The story and illustrations truly go together and though one could exist without the other, neither is whole unless they are together. There are tons of allusions made to D.C. history, not too mention all the cultural, religious, and mythological references. Plus the book ends on a very promising proposition and one that deserves to be explored more thoroughly.	2005-02-17
347043:US	52966385	R283MDOXPN0BCK	0451628217	963630731	The Screwtape Letters (Mentor Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hanging Out in the Enemy's Camp.	THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS is a series of letters written from an older temptor demon to a younger one. The book consists of a total of 31 letters and is one of the most profound extrapolations of how demons work in the world. Set against the backdrop of WWII Great Britain, Screwtape's \\"nephew\\" is Wormwood, a newly elevated demon that has been given his first patient. Each of Screwtape's letters provide advice to Wormwood on how best to bring his patient into his camp and then when the patient becomes a Christian, advice on how to keep the man from living his faith. We never read Wormwood's responses, but each of Screwtape's letters provide an almost uncanny insight into what is essentially demonic thinking. Much of what is written is rooted in Biblical scripture, though Lewis ties in many events of the 1942 world. The book, though full of challenging and thought-provoking ideas, is fairly easy to read. In fact, outside of THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA it is Lewis' most easy-to-read work.<br /><br />C.S. Lewis referred to THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS as being the most difficult work he had ever written. He said writing from the perspective of a demon was too draining and darkened his life. Lewis was a popular author throughout most of his life, but very few of his works ever reached the audience that THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS did and does (the CHRONICLES OF NARNIA series and MERE CHRISTIANITY being the only exceptions). The book vaulted Lewis from being an occassional literary personality, to a celebrated world-famous author. The book was so popular that the publishers courted Lewis for years to write a sequel. He never fully gave in because he couldn't bring himself back into the \\"diabolical ventriloquism\\" mindset. However, Lewis did acquiesce somewhat nearly a decade letter with the very short \\"essay\\" SCREWTAPE PROPOSES A TOAST. This edition of the book includes a nice introduction by Richard Gillman. Overall, THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS is a great book and one of the best that I can recommend when one is trying to understand the nature of evil.<br /><br />\\"In the long run either Our Father of the Enemy will say 'mine' of each thing that exists, and specially of each man....At present the Enemy says 'mine' of everything on the pedantic, legalistic ground that He made it.\\" (Letter XXI)mmend when one is trying to understand the nature of evil. <br /> <br />\\"In the long run either Our Father of the Enemy will say 'mine' of each thing that exists, and specially of each man....At present the Enemy says 'mine' of everything on the pedantic, legalistic ground that He made it.\\" (Letter XXI)	2005-02-17
355996:US	52966385	RA8VYR2WAC8M	0619202173	330187377	Discovering Computers 2005: A Gateway to Information, Brief	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Beginner's Text.	DISCOVERING COMPUTERS 2005 is a textbook that we used in an introductory course on computers in business class that I had. The book is a great tool for anyone who has had no experience with computers to those who have had a limited experience working with computers. It provides a foundation of most of the current terms and concepts about computers and how those things are applicable in life. The book is filled with colorful illustrations, current photographs, and detailed graphs. The text is easy to read and with all the illustrations, photos, and graphs it doesn't take very long to read an entire chapter.  My only complaint about the book is that for all the key terms and concepts that are introduced, there is no glossary to look those words up. Other than that, it's a great text for an introduction to computers class.	2005-02-09
359834:US	52966385	R3CQTDH2P79RDQ	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A New Direction	Dear Reader,<br /><br />When we last left the unfortunate Baudelaire orphans, they had just foiled Count Olaf's latest scheme and had lost their somewhat beloved Aunt Josephine to the carnivorous Lake Lachrymose leeches.  When we pick up with them in THE MISERABLE MILL not much time has passed and the children are being whisked away on a train to meet their new guardian, a man who simply calls himself Sir.<br /><br />The children are supposed to be staying with a guardian somehow \\"related\\" to them (no matter how slightly), but I have no idea how Sir is related to Violet, Klaus, and Sunny. Anyway, the trio is whisked away on a train to Paltryville where they walk alone from the train station to the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. To their horror, Sir forces the children to work in mill!  And not only that, but they are only paid in coupons and are only allowed one meal a day and a piece of gum to eat for lunch. Oh, how horrible!  And then Klaus is tripped by the foreman and breaks his glasses and has to go see an optometrist who ends up hypnotyzing him, and then some very, very dreadful things happen (including a most gruesome \\"accident\\").<br /><br />This story is unlike the first three books in the series and leads the children down a path quite different than the one they had been traveling.  One would think their misery would come to an end, but it seems as if they are cursed to be followed by a series of unfortunate events.<br /><br />Try to enjoy reading this book and whatever you do, please stay away from electric lumber saws in mills.<br /><br />Sincerely,<br /><br />Uncle TV	2005-02-06
360615:US	52966385	RORH7OHNAZSUA	0590386336	976871474	The Library Card	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Reading Can Change Your Life.	Jerry Spinelli is one of the best writers of young-adult fiction currently writing.  His ideas connect not only with his main target audience, but with many adults as well. His writing style is full of vivid images and he uses unusual vocabulary words that force readers to grow in their language skills.<br /><br />THE LIBRARY CARD is basically a novella written around four different stories tied together through a mysterious blue libary card. The first revolves around a boy named Mongoose and all the pranks he pulls and trouble he gets into with his friend named Weasel. The second focuses in on a girl named Brenda who is obsessed with televsion. The third story is about a homeless teenager named Sonseray who lives in a car with his uncle near a junkyard. The final story in the book is told as a first-person narrative from a girl named April and tells about moving to a Philadelphia mushroom farm and being hijacked on a bookmobile. Each story is unique in and of itself and the main characters have very little in common. However, each story illustrates the power of reading and how reading really can change a person's life.	2005-02-05
361367:US	52966385	ROD4JUBSWCB82	0395389496	546953115	The Polar Express	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful Illustrations & More	The reason that THE POLAR EXPRESS has become so popular is not necessarily because of the book's story. Well, actually the book doesn't have much of a story: boy questions if Santa exists, on Christmas Eve a train shows up at his house and whisks him off to the North Pole, he meets Santa and gets a sleigh bell, he loses the bell, goes back home, opens presents the next morning, the last present opened includes the lost sleigh bell with a note from Santa, and the boy becomes a life-long believer. At 32 pages with massive illustrations on most of the pages, that's about the entire story.<br /><br />This is the book that inspired the movie, but the movie and the book are two completely different entities. The movie is a fable about faith, but this: the original story, is not. Instead, it's simply a magnificently illustrated Christmas story. That's it. The story isn't that impressive, but the illustrations are what make the book what it is. In that sense, the book is more a work of art than anything else. Outside of that, it makes a nice story to read around Christmastime or something that children who like trains might enjoy flipping through and reading. Just watch out for the wolves in the woods.	2005-02-04
364558:US	52966385	RFTYA9LG9XHHC	0873529863	600744907	MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The General Handbook on Writing.	The MLA Handbook is THE handbook used for writing in high school and colleges across the United States.  The APA handbook comes in 2nd place, but it can't stand up to the MLA Handbook. English teachers across the country swear by it, and despite what people might think, English teachers do have a great deal of clout when it comes to writing with the mass populace. There have been a few minor changes that the MLA has made since publishing this edition. Nevertheless, this is the latest edition and until edition 7 comes around, this will be the handbook on writing and researching that tons of students across the country will become familiar.  A good resource.	2005-02-02
372199:US	52966385	RBI3KJNLY0H1Q	0439613876	901110904	Robert And the Instant Millionaire Show & Robert And the Three Wishes - Robert Flip Book #2 (Robert Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	For 1st- 4th Graders.	I've wanted to be on a game show and win money with the useless knowledge I know since I was 12. I sent post cards in every year from the 8th grade through all four years of high school for the JEOPARDY! TEEN TOURNAMENT.  During my freshman year in college I sent over 30 postcards into JEOPARDY! for their College Tournament, elborately decorating many of them so they would stand out in the big wheel I thought they would be placed.  I was one of the first people to flood the WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE lines when the show first came on the air back in 2000.  I've gone to local contestant searches in St. Louis. But alas, my goal has yet to be achieved.<br /><br />I picked up this book because Robert's desire to be on a show called \\"Instant Millionaire\\" was something I could really related with.  In ROBERT AND THE INSTANT MILLIONAIRE SHOW Robert and his friend Paul (both about age 8) want to be contestants on a game show called \\"Instant Millionaire\\" so that they can win a million dollars and buy a new bike and an electric guitar.  They spend a lot of their time memorizing books called Wierd and Wacky Facts.  In fact, they've memorized every book in the series except the two they don't own, #11 & #23. Eventually Robert gets a call from the show and is told he can't participate because you have to be over 18 to be on the show. Robert then gets the bright idea of entering his teacher so that she can get on and he'll be one of her tela-friends.  Along the way Robert and Paul do a project on the famous Galloping Gertie suspension bridge and Robert finds out that his Mom has a post card collection. I enjoyed the writing of this book because it is told from a perspective that 1st-4th graders can relate. However, I was disappointed by the ending.  The message the book ends with seems like a good one:  don't just dream, but do. However, the way the message is presented makes it seem like having goals and dreams and ambitions in life are bad.  It kind of bothered me that there was no encouragement for Robert to pursue his goal later on in some fashion.  Instead, because it was an impossibility at the time, the message seems to suggest that the dream should be given up altogether.  I wished it was delivered a little different, perhaps with something like, \\"But even though Robert knew he couldn't be on 'Instant Millionaire' now, he was eager to learn because he was sure that one day he would.\\"<br /><br />This book also includes ROBERT AND THE THREE WISHES.  ROBERT AND THE THREE WISHES leaves off almost exactly where ROBERT AND THE INSTANT MILLIONAIRE SHOW ended.  Robert's teacher, Mrs. Bernthal, announces to the class that she recently received a phone call about being on \\"The Instant Millionaire Show.\\"  However, she cannot be a contestant because a family member works for the television station. The phone call has given her and idea and she decides that the class will have their own trivia contest of boys against girls.  Robert makes a few \\"wishes\\" and surprisingly two of the things he wishes for come true.  When he makes a third \\"wish\\" which appears to come true, he thinks he's been given special powers.  But his friend Paul gets him back in line as the two drill the boys in a match of wits against the girls.  Overall a somewhat-entertaining tale that 2nd and 3rd graders will probably enjoy the most.re was no encouragement for Robert to pursue his goal later on in some fashion.  Instead, because it was an impossibility at the time, the message seems to suggest that the dream should be given up altogether.  I wished it was delivered a little different, perhaps with something like, \\"But even though Robert knew he couldn't be on 'Instant Millionaire' now, he was eager to learn because he was sure that one day he would.\\" <br /> <br />This book also includes ROBERT AND THE THREE WISHES.  ROBERT AND THE THREE WISHES leaves off almost exactly where ROBERT AND THE INSTANT MILLIONAIRE SHOW ended.  Robert's teacher, Mrs. Bernthal, announces to the class that she recently received a phone call about being on \\"The Instant Millionaire Show.\\"  However, she cannot be a contestant because a family member works for the television station. The phone call has given her and idea and she decides that the class will have their own trivia contest of boys against girls.  Robert makes a few \\"wishes\\" and surprisingly two of the things he wishes for come true.  When he makes a third \\"wish\\" which appears to come true, he thinks he's been given special powers.  But his friend Paul gets him back in line as the two drill the boys in a match of wits against the girls.  Overall a somewhat-entertaining tale that 2nd and 3rd graders will probably enjoy the most.	2005-01-26
372867:US	52966385	R6JGOLQF0E9CT	0971833133	231262939	College Live Text	Books	1	48	48	N	N	Draining Student Teachers Dry.	COLLEGE LIVE TEXT isn't a book as it is listed here at Amazon. Instead it's a CD-ROM that includes a special account password that allows a person access to the Live Text site to set up their own id, password, and teaching portfolio. For those unfamiliar with the education field, often before a prospective teacher is hired for a teaching position, they are asked to present their portfolio to the principal, school board members, or whoever else is involved in the hiring process.  The portfolio can contain a lot of different things: resume, personal teaching philosophy, classroom management plan, sample lesson plans, copies of reference letters, etc. It used to be that most students going through a teacher education program had to just produce a hard copy of their portfolio to take with them to interviews.  In the past 3-5 years, most teacher education programs at colleges and universities have begun requiring their students to submit their portfolios electronically and Live Text is a way to do that.<br /><br />The idea is all the vogue in teacher preparation programs across the country and in theory, the process sounds like a technological utopia to solve a prospective teacher's \\"problem\\" of having to bring their portfolio every time they go on an interview, apply for grad school, etc.  Just post it on the Web and any prospective employer can check it out. But, as often is the case with education theories, it doesn't work.<br /><br />Many schools really don't care that much about a prospective teacher's portfolio. Most of the ones that do ask about it during an interview only do so to make the school appear more \\"professional\\".  Once a prospective teacher is hired, the portfolio usually finds its way on a shelf somewhere never to be seen from again, unless another prospective teacher comes along looking for materials to help them prepare their own portfolio.  Not only that, but the concept that schools are requesting portfolios on-line, is for the most part, a fabricated lie constructed by \\"education\\" companies to soak even more money out of prospective teachers.  Most schools still want prospective teachers to have a hard copy of their portfolio because after interviewing a person, they don't have the time to go to a special site on the Internet and search through it to find the teaching portfolio of the person they just interviewed.  What that means is that prospective teacher still have to make a hard copy of whatever they place in their electronic portfolio and the electronic portfolio becomes rather useless.<br /><br />Prospective teachers are already paying gobs of money just to enter the profession.  Sure medical students take the MCAT, and law student the LSAT.  Those tests are cheap compared to what education students have to do.  For example, in Illinois prospective teachers have to take 3 professional tests (costing between $85-$235 depending on when registered) before they can be certified. Add to that around $125 to take the Praxis test if a student thinks they might teach outside of Illinois.  In addition, many teachers return to school for a Masters degree and that requires the GRE (currently priced at around $100). That's about $400-$500 on average just in fees to take a bunch of tests.<br /><br />COLLEGE LIVE TEXT costs over $100 with tax and is not anywhere near the price it costs. For the Ben Franklin and change that is doled out, a person gets a piece of cardboard colored in green and white, a CD-ROM that really isn't all that special, and a piece of paper with a \\"unique\\" password on it. That's it. $25, $35, maybe even $50 is semi-reasonable for the item, but $100 is a huge rip-off that doesn't do anything but drain student teachers dry of more money they don't have.bricated lie constructed by \\"education\\" companies to soak even more money out of prospective teachers.  Most schools still want prospective teachers to have a hard copy of their portfolio because after interviewing a person, they don't have the time to go to a special site on the Internet and search through it to find the teaching portfolio of the person they just interviewed.  What that means is that prospective teacher still have to make a hard copy of whatever they place in their electronic portfolio and the electronic portfolio becomes rather useless. <br /> <br />Prospective teachers are already paying gobs of money just to enter the profession.  Sure medical students take the MCAT, and law student the LSAT.  Those tests are cheap compared to what education students have to do.  For example, in Illinois prospective teachers have to take 3 professional tests (costing between $85-$235 depending on when registered) before they can be certified. Add to that around $125 to take the Praxis test if a student thinks they might teach outside of Illinois.  In addition, many teachers return to school for a Masters degree and that requires the GRE (currently priced at around $100). That's about $400-$500 on average just in fees to take a bunch of tests. <br /> <br />COLLEGE LIVE TEXT costs over $100 with tax and is not anywhere near the price it costs. For the Ben Franklin and change that is doled out, a person gets a piece of cardboard colored in green and white, a CD-ROM that really isn't all that special, and a piece of paper with a \\"unique\\" password on it. That's it. $25, $35, maybe even $50 is semi-reasonable for the item, but $100 is a huge rip-off that doesn't do anything but drain student teachers dry of more money they don't have.	2005-01-26
373706:US	52966385	R1QDUJFBLV7AUC	0439358078	667539744	Harry Potter And The Order Of The Phoenix	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Politics in the Magical World	I purposely delayed reading HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX for over a year to avoid all the hype that surrounded it upon it's initial release. The Harry Potter books slowly became and are now marketed as international events. Though that might be good for business, it's bad for reading. People get so caught up in the hype that they don't actually read, they just skim or sloppily speed-read the book so that they can be in the know.<br /><br />I was looking forward to HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX. I was quite surprised by GOBLET OF FIRE and was eager to see how Rowling would connect Harry's life and adventures at Hogwarts to the war with Lord Voldemort, aka Tom Marvolo Riddle. With a war going on, would Hogwarts even be open? How would Dumbledore and the other magicians deal with the sons and daughters of the deatheaters who were attending the school? Would Harry gain any more powers, learn any new skills, and become an even more powerful magician than before? These were all things I was curious about and unfortunately, ORDER OF THE PHOENIX didn't provide many answers.<br /><br />Though Sirius secretly wanted Harry to quit school and join him, the idea was not explored very in-depth. In fact, the dilemma was basically avoided: except for the Order of the Phoenix and a few outsiders, no one in the wizarding world believed Harry that Lord Voldemort had actually returned. Therefore, though Harry faced the occasional internal struggle about whether to stay at school or leave to fight in the war, no one else did and life at Hogwarts went on almost as it did before. I say almost because a huge section of the book is devoted to how the Ministry of Magic slowly entered into Hogwarts affairs and ended up taking over the school for a period. I didn't count exactly, but over 400 pages of this nearly 900 page tome is devoted to explaining and describing political manueverings. Dickens, Hugo, Elliot, Fielding and a host of other great writers all liked to expand ad infinum upon certain subjects, so Rowling should be allowed some slack.<br /><br />The only problem is that after all the political pontificating that goes on, what's left over really doesn't make for much of a story. To me, no matter how well-written a novel is, if the story isn't a good one, then the work almost completely fails. ORDER OF THE PHOENIX builds upon the four previous novels and the book itself has a great opening scene. However, most of the rest of the book doesn't match that quality and the story is often lackluster at best.<br /><br />Not only that, but (*warning: spoilers ahead*)the writing is not up to par as in the other books. Important descriptions are glossed over, wizarding cliches are often inserted, and many of the vivid details in language that were so witty and humorous in the first 4 books are almost totally missing in ORDER OF THE PHOENIX. For example, *(here comes a big spoiler)* Sirius Black supposedly dies in ORDER OF THE PHOENIX. I say supposedly because though everyone says that Sirius dies, no one actually sees him die. One moment he's fighting a Death Eater. The next moment he falls on his back and literally falls behind a black curtain and disappears. Now, I realize that the black curtain could be a metaphor for death and all that jazz. I also realize that this is a world of witches and wizards and the normal rules of the world don't always apply. However, most children and even young adults aren't going to pick up on the black curtain = death metaphor. Secondly, the complete disappearance of Sirius' body presents an interesting conundrum because in the only other instances in the series where someone was killed, whether in the wizard or muggle world, a body was left behind. Why did Sirius' body just disappear? Where did it go? It's a little too much like Star Wars to me, but unlike that world (where from the very beginning it is explained that Jedi disappear when the die), we have no indication whatsoever that wizards'bodies disappear when they die.<br /><br />The children of Death Eaters are still allowed to attend Hogwarts because it is made clear that Hogwarts is perhaps the most impenetrable structure in all the world, suggesting that the final great battle that should happen in Book 7 will occur within or near Hogwarts. This might be some foreshadowing. Even if it is, if I was Dumbledore and crew, the children of the known Death Eaters should have been expelled from school. I doubt Malfoy and crew will end up fighting against their parents and joining Harry when the final battle comes, so why keep them around and increase the enemy's army and power?<br /><br />As for Harry himself, he doesn't really learn anything in this book. Oh sure, he finds out about the prophecy that was made before he was born fortelling how he and Voldemort would end up facing each other and only one would live thereby sealing the fate of the entire wizard world. But, come on people, we've all but literally been told that since about the 3rd chapter of THE SORCERER'S STONE. He also discovers that though he's attracted to Cho, he'll never be able to really love her until either he or Voldemort are dead. Though he teaches others skills he has already mastered to other students, Harry never really learns any new skills. Unlike in the other books, he doesn't really grow as a wizard. In fact, if anything, he digresses. Throughout most of the book, he is extremely moody, irritable, and angry. He seems more like an-on-the-verge-of-the-dark-side Anakin Skywalker than the Harry Potter of the previous books. We've all experienced angst in adolescence, but Harry is a bit excessive and if he was living in the \\"real\\" world, some serious discipline or medication would be required. Granted Rowling throws in the idea that Harry and Voldemort might actually be able to read and control each other's emotions, but let's call that for the cop-out it really is.<br /><br />ORDER OF THE PHOENIX does set the stage for the final two books in the series and makes it clear to the entire wizard world that Lord Voldemort has returned. However, as a piece of literature it's not that good. As a story, nothing really happens. As a political treatise, it's amazing. But political treatises usually aren't that exciting to read. Therefore, in my opinion, ORDER OF THE PHOENIX is the weakest book in the HARRY POTTER series so far. Let's hope the HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE will be far more interesting and exciting.bodies disappear when they die.<br /><br />The children of Death Eaters are still allowed to attend Hogwarts because it is made clear that Hogwarts is perhaps the most impenetrable structure in all the world, suggesting that the final great battle that should happen in Book 7 will occur within or near Hogwarts. This might be some foreshadowing. Even if it is, if I was Dumbledore and crew, the children of the known Death Eaters should have been expelled from school. I doubt Malfoy and crew will end up fighting against their parents and joining Harry when the final battle comes, so why keep them around and increase the enemy's army and power?<br /><br />As for Harry himself, he doesn't really learn anything in this book. Oh sure, he finds out about the prophecy that was made before he was born fortelling how he and Voldemort would end up facing each other and only one would live thereby sealing the fate of the entire wizard world. But, come on people, we've all but literally been told that since about the 3rd chapter of THE SORCERER'S STONE. He also discovers that though he's attracted to Cho, he'll never be able to really love her until either he or Voldemort are dead. Though he teaches others skills he has already mastered to other students, Harry never really learns any new skills. Unlike in the other books, he doesn't really grow as a wizard. In fact, if anything, he digresses. Throughout most of the book, he is extremely moody, irritable, and angry. He seems more like an-on-the-verge-of-the-dark-side Anakin Skywalker than the Harry Potter of the previous books. We've all experienced angst in adolescence, but Harry is a bit excessive and if he was living in the \\"real\\" world, some serious discipline or medication would be required. Granted Rowling throws in the idea that Harry and Voldemort might actually be able to read and control each other's emotions, but let's call that for the cop-out it really is.<br /><br />ORDER OF THE PHOENIX does set the stage for the final two books in the series and makes it clear to the entire wizard world that Lord Voldemort has returned. However, as a piece of literature it's not that good. As a story, nothing really happens. As a political treatise, it's amazing. But political treatises usually aren't that exciting to read. Therefore, in my opinion, ORDER OF THE PHOENIX is the weakest book in the HARRY POTTER series so far. Let's hope the HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE will be far more interesting and exciting.	2005-01-25
379355:US	52966385	R1YPQP4HHHLS6N	067176053X	681128983	If You're Afraid of the Dark, Remember the Night Rainbow	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A World of Imagination.	This book is written for children with the purpose of making them feel better in times of stress by using their imaginations and looking at the world in a different way.  The illustrations are very colorful and bring to life each one of the creatve verses contained within.  The book is meant to inspire and encourage children and each one of the small proverbs carries meaning that people of all ages could possibly learn from. Nevertheless, despite the fact that it's intended for children, some sensitive children might be afraid of some of the illustrations inside. But, overall this is a wonderful and charming book that can inspire and encourage most who read it.	2005-01-21
381759:US	52966385	R2FGCR9JCIYKN5	0618477896	976648853	The Polar Express: The Movie: Keepsake Memory Book	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Things Seen in the Movie.	The idea behind this short book is that Boy in the story puts together a memory/scrapbook to remember his adventures to the North Pole. The book includes selected photos from the movie along with other items (ticket stub, bottle cap, etc.) that have been imprinted in the album. The book is divided into several different sections that talk about things that were seen in the movie and fills in information about each one.  The legend of the Christmas stocking and one of the many legends of the Christmas tree are included, as well as a scientific explanation of the aurora borealis, a recipe for hot chocolate, suggestions for making one's own wrapping paper, the difference between a caribou and reindeer, what makes a bell jingle, and several other things. Granted the book is a merchandising ploy. Nevertheless, there are just enough tasty nuggets of information that make it a notch above the average movie \\"memory\\" book.	2005-01-19
385709:US	52966385	RC4HWFE0LB3WR	056338008X	113016530	Wallace and Gromit Graphic Novel: A Grand Day Out	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Out of This World	Wallace and Gromit are huge in the U.K. and though they will never be as big in the U.S., the duo has slowly gained a loyal following. Wallace and Gromit are the stars of a series of British claymation shorts and thirty-minute movies. Wallace is an inventor who wears a lot of Mister Roger-type sweaters (usually in green). Gromit is Wallace's dog and though Wallace is smart, Gromit is probably the more intelligent and is definitely the more clear-headed, logical, and reasoning of the duo. Oh, and they both love cheese.<br /><br />Americans are probably most familiar with the Wallace and Gromit short, THE WRONG TROUSERS. THE WRONG TROUSERS won an Academy Award and augmented the fan base of Wallace and Gromit fans in the U.S. Though THE WRONG TROUSERS is what the pair is best known in, they starred in a previous short film entitled A GRAND DAY OUT. This is the graphic novel adaptation of that short film.<br /><br />In A GRAND DAY OUT, Wallace and Gromit discover they don't have any cheese. The pair is in need of holiday and sets off for a place that is literally made of cheese: the moon. Once there they run into a mechanical machine that just wants to ski.<br /><br />As graphic novels go, A GRAND DAY OUT is not that great. There isn't any amazing reading here and though the graphics are intriguing, they aren't original and most look like shots taken from the film. Nevertheless, this is Wallace and Gromit and the story of A GRAND DAY OUT originated in the genius mind of Nick Park. Therefore, the story content alone makes it better than the average graphic novel fair.	2005-01-16
390440:US	52966385	R1TJ8Q3GK7IL0J	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fact Versus Fiction	ANGELS AND DEMONS is the precursor to Brown's no infamous THE DA VINCI CODE. ANGELS AND DEMONS introduces readers to the character of Robert Langdon, a Harvord professor and famed symbologist (are there actually people in the world who earn a living as a symbologist?). Langdon receives a mysterious phone call from a leader in the international scientific community asking him to investigate and analyze a mysterious cultic symbol that hasn't been seen in hundreds of years. The symbol turns out to be burned onto the chest of a Catholic priest and scientist and bears the name of an infamous Satanic cult known as the Illuminati. Thus begins Langdon's 24 hour adventure that takes him from Switzerland to Italy, through the streets of Vatican City, and above the world in helicopter to &#34;Heaven&#34;. Langdon's on a mysterious trail following the signs of markers leading him to the Church of Illumination and eventually to the heart of darkness.<br /><br />Due to all the buzz and hubbub surrounding THE DA VINCI CODE, I've avoided reading anything by Dan Brown. However, it seems that no matter where one turns, people are talking about Brown and his works and are now as ubiquitous as McDonalds and Wal-Mart. I finally decided to break down and read THE DA VINCI CODE to see what all the fuss is about. However, I decided that first I would read the first novel that featured Robert Langdon; what can I say, I'm somewhat anal and a completist.<br /><br />Overall, ANGELS AND DEMONS is a highly entertaining book that is hard to put down. It's very fast paced and the short chapters make it easier for one to fly through the novel. To me, the story is key and ANGELS AND DEMONS has a good story. There are certain elements that are formulaic, but the story is written so well that most will hardly notice the formulas.<br /><br />The illustrations and descriptions in the novel are usually quite vivid. Whether it's an secret library, a famous statue, or a person, the author does an excellent job at describing things and making them come to life in one's mind.<br /><br />As a piece of writing, my only problem with the book is that there were one too many plot twists for me. I didn't mind the fact that the story never really reveals what's actually happening until the end. However, it's a little bit jarring as a reader for things to keep changing every 50 pages or so. Three or four unexpected twists are okay, five or six are bordering on the edge, but any more than that are way too much for a story like this. Towards the end of the book, the novel reads more like a screenplay for an action-adventure suspense movie than it does a mystery novel.<br /><br />Some will find the book quite offensive. Though the tone of the novel is upbeat and a token note of positivism is given towards the end of the story, ANGELS AND DEMONS is rather harsh specifically towards Catholicism and to a larger extent Christianity in general. Besides Brown's excellent job at vivid descriptions, he's also a master of mixing fact and fiction together so that unless someone is schooled or educated about all the things that are discussed, it's rather easy to get confused and come away from reading the book with some false impression, wrong ideas, and even blatant lies about the Catholic faith, Christianity, and history. I am not Catholic, though I have studied a bit of Catholicism, but I am a Christian with some background in church history and such. I could easily point out some of the fallacies that Brown make in his book. However, many others are not able to do so. For me, I wasn't bothered by the fallacies because I knew that this was a piece of fiction. However, the book is written in such a way that many people will come away believing that though the story is fiction, it's told with mostly things that are true. This is a misconception that is dangerous and that some should know about in advance before reading the book.<br /><br />However, overall I found ANGELS AND DEMONS to be an enjoying thriller and I'm glad I gave it a chance.n enjoying thriller and I'm glad I gave it a chance.	2005-01-12
392254:US	52966385	R2QM6HOM2OWQ2Q	0736422676	631964121	Never Wear a Cape! And Other Tips for Supers (The Incredibles Chapter Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Advice on Being a Super	NEVER WEAR A CAPE! is a clever marketing book from the folks at Disney and Pixar that is somewhat entertaining and will encourage reluctant readers who are fans of THE INCREDIBLES to start reading. The book is supposedly written by Mr. Incredible as told to Jasmine Jones. The book is supposed to be a lengthy pamphlet filled with advice for new superheroes who are taking part in the &#34;Return of the Supers.&#34; Some of the chapters in the book include &#34;History of the Supers,&#34; &#34;Super Career Choices,&#34; &#34;Family,&#34; &#34;Undercover,&#34; &#34;Super Suits,&#34; and &#34;Villains of the New School.&#34; Almost every page in the book includes some sort of illustration. Some are drawings taken from scenes in THE INCREDIBLES movie, but many are new. The book is categorized as being a &#34;humor&#34; book and for most older children and adults, the book is quite funny. However, very young children who are caught up in becoming a superhero will enjoy reading the book and incorporating the tips enclosed into their lives as a superhero. The book is fairly easy to read and students in the 2nd grade and above shouldn't have any trouble reading it. Even though the book is part of the Disney marketing machine, it is humorous and entertaining enough that it could help certain reluctant readers have a desire to read it. Also, since its THE INCREDIBLES, it's a little above the par for most mass-marketing literary merchandise.	2005-01-11
398616:US	52966385	R22SHGCHTQT9GD	0974694207	836093852	The Christian Culture Survival Guide: The Misadventures of an Outsider on the Inside	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	We Want More!	Matthew Paul Turner's THE CHRISTIAN CULTURE SURVIVAL GUIDE is a book that lampoons the subculture of America that I like to refer to as the Christian ghetto. People who are raised in Christian culture have access to a whole world that the rest of the world really doesn't even know exists. In some ways, this culture is a good thing because it augments a believers life by providing means of fellowship they need and might not otherwise have. However, though the constant struggle in a Christian's life is to be &#34;in the world, but not of the world&#34; American Christians have gone way to far and are trying to be in the world without actually being in the world and have cut themselves off from humanity. It is this idea that Turner parodies so brilliantly in THE CHRISTIAN CULTURE SURVIVAL GUIDE.<br /><br />The book is written in the format of a real survival guide and projects an image that this book is a must have for anyone new to Christianity in America or perhaps a nonbeliever or outsider who might have to have interactions with people inside of the Christian culture. Turner tells all kinds of funny and interesting stories in a satirical way. He often starts a chapter or section very seriously. These statements are insightful and in some cases profound. But just a few lines later, Turner turns the tables and throws in a joke or funny story. For instance, in the Chapter on The Worship Service he begins by saying,<br /><br />&#34;Even with the strides modern Christian culture has made in the last couple of decades to improve its reputation among mainstream society, churches still fight being stereotyped as stuffy, pretentious, and lacking in originality and vision.&#34; Very insightful observation, but one paragraph later he gives the 7 Church Cliches that need to go (such as visitor time).<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book. However, I did feel that it was lacking. The book isn't a total parody, nor is it a completely serious work interspaced with moments of humor. Instead it is some weird hybrid in between. It almost reads like a piece of literary schizophrenia. Turner seems to be a funny guy. He also has some very keen and insightful insights about Christianity and following Jesus. However, because of the way the book is written, those who most need to hear his insights never will (they'll be offended by his humor) or they'll fail to recognize the serious moments because of the humor. I would like to see Turner write a &#34;serious&#34; work (interlaced with humor, of course) about Christianity. This man has a lot of great things to say and should he choose he could have a great impact not only in Christian culture, but in the world in general. If so, we can have this handy Survival Guide to help us journey along.of humor. Instead it is some weird hybrid in between. It almost reads like a piece of literary schizophrenia. Turner seems to be a funny guy. He also has some very keen and insightful insights about Christianity and following Jesus. However, because of the way the book is written, those who most need to hear his insights never will (they'll be offended by his humor) or they'll fail to recognize the serious moments because of the humor. I would like to see Turner write a &#34;serious&#34; work (interlaced with humor, of course) about Christianity. This man has a lot of great things to say and should he choose he could have a great impact not only in Christian culture, but in the world in general. If so, we can have this handy Survival Guide to help us journey along.	2005-01-06
400083:US	52966385	R2197JH0BSOXAK	0439597188	536442848	Shrek Tales #3	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Squirrels Are Evil.	In this story, Shrek tells Donkey and Fiona about the time that he tried to save a town of angry villagers from the ransacking havoc of a masked band of villainous squirrels.  The squirrels have been stealing every thing from frying pans to anvils and storing it in a secret cave.  Shrek finds out about the cave, but keeps forgetting the secret password, \\"Open ...\\" a grain that sounds like centipede.<br /><br />I found this story to be very entertaining. It's quite short and can be read within 30 minutes or less.  I've never really liked squirrels much--everyone knows they are secretly plotting to take over the world--and I bought this book because it showed the small furry woodland creatures in their true light, as sneaky little vermin.	2005-01-05
420900:US	52966385	RX50UYXVXVTGM	0060757310	338638787	Behind the Scenes with Count Olaf (A Series of Unfortunate Events Movie Book)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Olaf steals the show.	BEHIND THE SCENES WITH COUNT OLAF appears to be the typical behind the scenes movie book. However, once you begin reading the pages and looking at the pictures, you realize it's not. The whole concept behind the book is that Count Olaf has \\"edited\\" the original BEHIND THE SCENES BOOK. The dialogue that is supposed to go with the pictures is often covered over what appears to be scratches of paper and tape that are written on, explaining what Count Olaf wants you to know. It's a cute sight gag, usually only seen in books for young children. However, for anyone who knows anything about THE SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS, you know that the gimmick fits perfectly into the general tone and theme of the books and upcoming movie. There are lots of photos from the film and a few surprises for those who haven't seen the movie yet and who have only read the books. So, why don't you make your uncle Olaf proud and buy this book?	2004-12-17
421324:US	52966385	R1WAOABTDLN9H8	0916291456	857462822	Everyone Poops (My Body Science)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Aide to Toliet Training.	It can be incredibly difficult sometimes to train children to learn to use the bathroom. Some kids just don't understand and some just find it so much more convenient to be lazy and some are just plain honery.  Whatever the case, parents usually welcome any tool that will ease the task. I suggest using this book, EVERYONE POOPS. Granted, kids will love the book just because they find the subject matter hilarious. However, the book also delivers the subtle message of people using the bathroom. The illustrations are crude and leave nothing to the imagination, but that's part of the book's appeal. Children who are read or read this book soon no longer have a desire to go in their pants and will begin making an effort to use the toilet (unless they are particularly honery, then they will say things like, \\"But I'm an elephant and elephants do use the toilet\\"). The book also makes a very funny gag gift.	2004-12-16
421338:US	52966385	R1YCUXQOBTM1BG	0805043845	740609659	The Way Meat Loves Salt: A Cinderella Tale from the Jewish Tradition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mazel Tov!	THE WAY MEAT LOVES SALT is a story that tells a Jewish version of Cinderella.  The Cinderella tale is found in some shape or form in every culture around the world, with each culture molding and shaping the story to fit their lifestyle. THE WAY MEAT LOVES SALT is also a story that includes the \\"love test\\" (how much do you love me) which is found in literature not only in the West but in other cultures as well. The most famous example of the \\"love test\\" is in Shakespeare's KING LEAR.  So, basically, THE WAY MEAT LOVES SALT is a combination of the opening of KING LEAR and the entire tale of Cinderella, but set in a Jewish village in Poland.<br /><br />There once was a rabbi who had three daughters. He loved his daughters very much and would do anything for them. However, one day he wondered, \\"How much do they love me?\\" He didn't know and the question troubled him. So, he asks his daughters. The eldest replies that she loves him as much as diamonds. The middle daughter replies that she loves him as much as silver and gold. But the youngest replies that she loves him \\"the way meat loves salt.\\"  The father is furious with such an answer and has no idea what she means. In his fury he kicks her out of the house and banishes her from the family.  Thus the poor young girl, Mireleh, sets forth and begins living the life of a servant girl. However, she is assisted by a kindly old man who gives her a magical stick. Mireleh keeps the stick a secret and eventually is taken in by another rabbi and his family and this is where the Cinderella part of the story begins.<br /><br />The book includes a fine introduction by the author that explains who this particular tale came to be written down and what it's origins are. It also includes the lyrics and music to \\"Mazel Tov!\\" on the last page.  Louise August created the illustrations and the oil-based paints that were used add to the rick folk flavor of the story. It's a fine story to read and even a better one to tell. After all, exactly what is \\"the way meat loves salt?\\"actly what is \\"the way meat loves salt?\\"	2004-12-16
421396:US	52966385	R3512A1LRF5SHQ	0064431592	538511251	It Looked Like Spilt Milk	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Use Your Imagination.	What exactly is the \\"it\\" in this story?  That's what the author leaves the reader to discover as you flip through the pages of this intriguing little book.  White pictures and font set against sky blue pages set up this childhood guessing game.  Sometimes it looked like spilt milk, but it wasn't spilt milk. Sometimes it looked like a birthday cake or a squirrel or a tree and so on and so forth. The book provides an excellent introduction for preschool/kindergarten lessons on clouds or as the pre-model activity for some other creative exercise.  Personally, I just like flipping through the book looking at the white on the blue, it's so calming and peaceful. Anyway, a very useful book to use teaching young children that they will enjoy having read to them.	2004-12-16
422140:US	52966385	RZ0PXZ6YIVMCT	0805076360	971574207	The Emperor Lays an Egg	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Full of Info	THE EMPEROR LAYS AN EGG is one of the most fact-filled books directed towards young children that I have come across. The book begins with a mother emperor penguin laying an egg and then goes on to explain how the egg is taken care of (mostly by the father), how the chick hatches, and how it grows until it becomes an adult. And the illustration appeal to children, containing a lot of blues that calm the nerves. I have just two criticims about the book. First, the book has so much information that younger readers will be overwhelmed. Much of the material will be far too confusing for a 1st grade reader. Most children won't be able to read all the material until they are in 2nd grade, but the book is marketed towards those in 1st grade and younger. Also, the illustrations, though peaceful, are kind of dull; the lack vibrance and vitality. Nevertheless, the book can be read to younger children and they will enjoy flipping through the pages looking at the pictures. THE EMPEROR LAYS AN EGG is a great non-fiction text to read to young children and a great gift for any child who likes penguins.	2004-12-16
422308:US	52966385	RDA8SECVKSKLA	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Male Perspective.	I really enjoyed reading BRIDGET JONES. It was funny, slightly quirky, and full of British charm. The book is a modern take on Jane Austen's classic novel and is thoroughly successful at what it does. I enjoyed it so much I was delighted to hear that a sequel had been penned, BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON. I've owned the book for over a year, but with the new movie arriving in theatres, I wanted to make sure I finally read the book. When I read the first page, I was excited to read the further adventures of Bridget Jones.<br /><br />I was quite disappointed. The first few sections of the book start out alright (however, unlike BRIDGET JONES, BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON isn't divided up according to a monthly calendar). At first Bridget seems to be the same old Bridget that everyone came to love and adore. Then the characters stop acting like they are supposed to act. We all know that Bridget is kind of a basketcase and slightly neurotic, but does anyone really believe that even Bridget could be dumb enough to dump someone like Mark Darcy over the things she ends up dumping him for? Sure there would be fights, arguments, and disagreements, even with someone as remarkable as Mark Darcy. However, no one would actually dump him they way Bridget ends up doing. It's completely out of character, unrealistic, and unnatural.  However, Bridget isn't the only one who starts acting crazy. Her friend Tom ends up moving to the United States (he must have a pretty penny to be able to do that), Bridget's Mum has brought an exotic foreigner home to England to visit for awhile, Bridget's Dad is sent to a rehabilitation home, and on it goes. It's as though Bridget and everyone in her world are all suffering from a midlife crisis at the same time (well, except Mark Darcy).  Yes, people have midlife crises, and sometimes bad things happen all at once all around us, but not like they do with Bridget.  Things get even more bizarre when Bridget goes to Thailand and gets arrested for drug smuggling. It's like a warped version of the limbo--how far can we go.<br /><br />BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON isn't a terrible book, but it's not a terribly good one either. The story has some good writing and there are memorable moments in the plot. Still, it's just not the same Bridget.  Until the last fourth of the book Bridget doesn't grow at all and instead regresses.  She makes some improvements just before leaving for Thailand, but by that time she's fallen so far, just about any decision could look like an improvement.  Whereas the original BRIDGET JONES was witty, humorous, charming, realistic, and believable, BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON just isn't reasonable.  It should have been entitled BRIDGET JONES: BEYOND THE EDGE OF REASON instead.ug smuggling. It's like a warped version of the limbo--how far can we go.    BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON isn't a terrible book, but it's not a terribly good one either. The story has some good writing and there are memorable moments in the plot. Still, it's just not the same Bridget.  Until the last fourth of the book Bridget doesn't grow at all and instead regresses.  She makes some improvements just before leaving for Thailand, but by that time she's fallen so far, just about any decision could look like an improvement.  Whereas the original BRIDGET JONES was witty, humorous, charming, realistic, and believable, BRIDGET JONES: THE EDGE OF REASON just isn't reasonable.  It should have been entitled BRIDGET JONES: BEYOND THE EDGE OF REASON instead.	2004-12-15
426494:US	52966385	R1EHXGOYED9YVS	1572301317	893169883	The Lost Art of Listening: How Learning to Listen Can Improve Relationships	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Helpful Advice.	THE LOST OF ART LISTENING was a book that I read in my college Listening class. The book has a lot of helpful advice and good ideas that if incorporated into people's lives will help them become better listeners. Basically, the book's overall theme is that listening takes work and if we're going to be better listeners, we have to be willing to actually take time to hear people out and understand what they are saying to us, without worrying about what we are going to say next. Though I think the book is worthwhile reading, it is rather repetitive and the author unneedingly repeats himself over and over. Also, though some parts of the book are based off of research and years of experience in counseling, some of the ideas are just the author's own thoughts and opinions and shouldn't be taken for complete truth.  Overall, THE LOST ART OF LISTENING is a good book that can help one find the lost art and bring it into one's life.	2004-12-12
427825:US	52966385	R14A2UK5FKSHDF	0072431814	812177201	Roles In Interpretation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Introducing Oral Interpretation of Literature.	Judy Yordon's ROLES IN INTERPRETATION is a great text to use and read for an oral interpretation of literature class. The book is organized in a very direct, coherent, and distinctive way.  The main ideas are clearly illustrated and supported and the chapters are arranged in a sequential manner.  The book is divided into 10 different chapters with an appendix and a glossary.  I absolutely loved the oral interpretation class I had and we used this text. The book augmented all the things our professor taught us and it was a great tool and makes for a nice reference for the future (especially if I ever do some professional storytelling or when I have to teach a high school speech class).	2004-12-10
433660:US	52966385	RI178P8PHW0Q5	0761129901	702096156	Amazing Trivia Facts 2005 (Page-A-Day Calendars)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Gift for Trivia Buffs.	I am a huge trivia buff and recently bought this calendar as a gift to myself. I couldn't wait until 2005 began and looked at the calendear in advance.  Basically it's your basic page-a-day desk calendar, but instead of a Bible verse or quotation, there's a triva question.  The questions range all over the place from sports to food to politics to art to just about anything. Here's a sample question from the middle of the year (July 21):  What famous 19th century novel's working title was ELINOR AND MARIANNE, the names of two of its key characters?  A: SENSE AND SENSIBILITY by Jane Austen. The calender includes a code that links to an online version of the calendar.  This is a great gift for trivia buffs.	2004-12-06
445661:US	52966385	R70STF67LD8MD	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	They Begin To See What True Horror Is.	Dear Readers,<br /><br />In this chronicle of the poor Baudelaire children (Violet, Klaus, and Sunny), the siblings are sent to live with their Aunt Josephine (who's really their second cousin's sister in-law). Aunt Josephine lives on the top of a very high hill overlooking the Lake Lachrymose.  Josephine is afraid of just about everything, but especially realtors.  She refuses to use her oven and only eats cold food.  But even though Aunt Josephine isn't the best caretaker in the world, she is much better than Count Olaf.<br /><br />Oh, my friends, but that's when the troubles begin again. Count Olaf shows up in the village with a wooden leg and an eye patch. He weazels his way into becoming friends with Aunt Josephine. Despite the protests from the children Josephine is convinced Olaf (going by the name of Captain Sham) is the real-deal. Oh my, oh my. I don't think I can go on. Thinking of all the horrors that happen next brings a tear to my eye.<br /><br />Let's just say the children learn that there are more horrible things in life than having to eat cold cucumber soup (such as having a guardian agree to hand you over to a man who is trying to kill you).  The children also learn a great deal about grammar.  We, the readers, also learn something very terrible about Count Olaf. We already know Olaf is a murderer, fraud, and child endangerer, but in THE WIDE WINDOW we also learn that he's an arsonist (an arsonist is someone who starts fires to just burn things down for death and destruction).  It makes me wonder if Count Olaf killed the Baudelaire's parents himself?  Oh, the horror, the horror.<br /><br />Please be warned reader, this book is the darkest of the first three.  No curse words are sworn, but people do die and someone who is supposed to protect the children abandons them in their hour of greatest need.  It is very dark and scary. But on a positive note, people who read this book will not only increase their vocabularies but will learn some things about grammar, too.<br /><br />I'm afraid what happens to Violet, Klaus, and Sunny next but I will continue following their adventures if you do. Let's hope that something good happens to the children soon. Keep on reading.<br /><br />Sincerely,<br /><br />Uncle TVhappens to Violet, Klaus, and Sunny next but I will continue following their adventures if you do. Let's hope that something good happens to the children soon. Keep on reading.    Sincerely,    Uncle TV	2004-11-24
446352:US	52966385	R17N1KIF06NW01	0571199976	650805783	Proof: A Play	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Prove It To Me.	This is a wonderful, well-thought out play. The cast consists of only four characters and the plot moves back and forth in time from the present to the past and from dreams to reality.  Catherine's father, Robert (who seems loosely based on the real-life John Nash) was one of the most brilliant mathematicians to have ever lived. By the time he was 25 he had changed the mathematics world twice.  Then he became mentally sick and his brilliant and beautiful daughter Catherine drops out of school to take care of him.  Robert dies, but Catherine has inherited some of his gifts.  Though she was forced to drop out of college, she, too is a mathematical genius. The only problem is that her \\"boyfriend\\" Hal and her older sister Claire think she has also inherited some of Robert's dementia.<br /><br />What starts off as a play seemingly about mathematics and the effects of dementia ends up really being a piece of theatrical genius about love and family. A great show if done right.	2004-11-24
447365:US	52966385	R1ZTCW3MR62HKK	0910482640	224403553	Pippin	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Just the Script, Ma'am.	This book includes the words and lyrics to Stephen Schwartz' musical PIPPIN.  The lyrics don't seem as impressive as they are when combined with the music, but for those who don't have anything more than a basic outline-idea of what the show is about (like I was), this book helps fill in the gaps. The script is kind of bizarre and plays around with a lot of different theatrical conventions.<br /><br />Pippin is the son of Emperor Charlemagne and is scheduled to fill the throne when his father dies. Charlemagne wanted Pippin to be a better ruler than he was and sent him off to the top schools to be educated. Not only did the schooling fill Pippin's head with knowledge, but it also provided him with an empty feeling in his heart. He decides to set forth and do everything he can until the void is filled.  That's the gist of the plot. There are also several beheadings, sexual dances, and some time-traveling resurrection. Not to shabby for just a bunch of words written down.	2004-11-23
448910:US	52966385	R1NY9F3GXNW2CW	0399529209	502818647	Lord of the Flies: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Beast is "Close, close, close."	The plot of LORD OF THE FLIES goes something like this.  During the middle of WWII, a British airplane full of male English schoolchildren is shot done over the Pacific.  Upon reaching shore the survivors realize that all the adults died in the crash.  The group of boys, aging in range from 6-12, bands together to survive on the island until they can be rescued. The tribe holds an assembly and elects a chief, a bright young man named Ralph.  Ralph is a democratic leader and does everything he can to keep things together. He is joined in his efforts by Jack, the lead singer of a group of choir boys who turns the choir into a group of hunters; Piggy, an extremely intelligent boy who is chubby and wears glasses; and Simon, an eccentric young lad who suffers from fainting spells and seems capable of touching the spiritual world.  Piggy and Jack don't get along at all. But Ralph and Jack begin things as friends. Things go alright for awhile, but there is a darkness on the island that everyone can feel. As the days pass into weeks, tension develops between Ralph and Jack.  In his ambition to feed the tribe with meet, Jack slowly falls under the spell of darkness and becomes filled with pride.  He eventually splits the tribe in two. Both pigs and people become slaughtered as civilization falls apart in a world of immoral and unethical chaos.<br /><br />LORD OF THE FLIES is one of my favorite books of all time. I first read it when I was a junior in high school and was deeply impressed by the wonderful story.  The story is full of vivid images that become frozen in one's mind.<br /><br />Besides just being a great story, the novel can be read on a variety of levels. For instance, there is the conflict of man versus nature; civilization versus anarchy; democratic principles versus dictatorship.  The book could be read as merely a psychological treatise examining the various states of the human mind.  Or it can be read as a spiritual metaphor, illustrating the depravity of man outside of God's grace.<br /><br />Besides THE CATCHER IN THE RYE, LORD OF THE FLIES is perhaps the most influential book of the mid-20th Century. The book wasn't well received upon it's initial release, but was \\"discovered\\" in the 1960s by college students. Since that time it has become a bestseller and a modern classic.  It is highly recommended and one of the few books that I believe every American should be familiar with.  Beware the Beast!<br /><br />This edition of LORD OF THE FLIES includes an introduction by E.M. Forster, a selection of postnotes following the essay, and a group of selected critical analysis of the work.f man outside of God's grace. <br /> <br />Besides THE CATCHER IN THE RYE, LORD OF THE FLIES is perhaps the most influential book of the mid-20th Century. The book wasn't well received upon it's initial release, but was \\"discovered\\" in the 1960s by college students. Since that time it has become a bestseller and a modern classic.  It is highly recommended and one of the few books that I believe every American should be familiar with.  Beware the Beast! <br /> <br />This edition of LORD OF THE FLIES includes an introduction by E.M. Forster, a selection of postnotes following the essay, and a group of selected critical analysis of the work.	2004-11-22
450620:US	52966385	R3R6MVPUFG46K8	0873674863	174438693	Preparing America's Teachers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	History, info, and some suggestions.	When I first picked up PREPARING AMERICA'S TEACHERS I thought it would be book that would help me prepare for my upcoming state teaching tests.  Unfortunately, that's not what the book is about.  PREPARING AMERICA'S TEACHERS is a book written towards professors who teach at the college or university level and who are teaching future teachers. The book is divided into four chapters. The first chapter explains the modal curriculum for teacher preparation and how that curriculum was developed. The second chapter talks about 29 different proposals and reforms that have been instigated since the typical teacher preparation curriculum was first developed. The third chapter mentions six approaches to teacher education that have shown promise and are currently being intergrated in teacher education curriculum across the country. The fourth chapter is basically an epilogue that once again emphasizes why it is important that teacher preparation curriculum be reformed.<br /><br />The book is fairly short and doesn't take very long to read. I found the first chapter interesting because it gave me a brief overview of the history of teacher education curriculum. I also enjoyed many of the proposals/movements discussed in chapter two (and am still totally baffled by the resistance to Teach for America among many of the teacher education elite). However, I am kind of an odd duck and really wouldn't recommend this book unless you have a strong interest about teacher education curriculum or are a college professor teaching future teachers.	2004-11-19
453091:US	52966385	R3MO3L9OKHILPZ	0072483881	682662894	Communicating in Groups: Applications and Skills	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Combination of Theory and Practice.	Over the past several years I've had to read several text books, especially those having to do with speech communication.  The majority of these speech communication books I have had to read are long, dry, and dull.  They tend to be filled with all sorts of theories and very little actual real-life experience examples or practice.  COMMUNICATION IN GROUPS isn't like that and does one of the best jobs for a textbook of combining the theories behind small group communication with vivid, real-life examples to illustrate the ideas.  The book lays out the format for working in small groups, explains how and why small groups are formed, the decisions that small groups have to make, problems that small groups face, and principles of how a group can work together to complete their project and make a presentation.  Terms are defined in easy-to-understand language and examples are relevant and applicable.  The book is fairly easy to read and unlike most textbooks I have forced myself to read, I actually enjoyed reading COMMUNICATION IN GROUPS.  I would recommend this text for any small group communication class or anyone interested in the field of small group communication.	2004-11-17
453680:US	52966385	RMZZ0NV6GXG3Z	0131469371	449752720	Listening: Attitudes, Principles, and Skills	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Dry, But Informative.	LISTENING: ATTITUDES, PRINCIPLES, AND SKILLS is a textbook about listening. We spend more time listening than we do reading, writing, and speaking combined. Yet, most people have no idea what listening is composed of.  Our lives and the world in general would be a much better place if everyone took the time to improve their listening skills. This book takes an indepth look at the HURIER model of listening.  Though several models of listening have been developed over the years, the HURIER model is, in my opinion, the model that best describes all of the processes involved in listening.  There are six components to the HURIER model:  Hearing, Understanding, Evaluating, Interpreting, Remembering, and Responding.  LISTENING: A.P.S. is divided into 10 chapters and six of those chapters are spent solely on one component of the HURIER model.  This book is quite informative about the art of listening. However, like the majority of college textbooks it is written in a very dry style. There is no glossary or side definitions of important words and the most important concepts are somewhat difficult to find in the layers of dull text. I found the most interesting reading in the book to be the case stories at the beginning of each chapter.  There's no place quite like Burger World.  Nevertheless, though the book is difficult to plough through, it is full of lots of useful information. It is a good text to use in a listening class.  Just don't fall asleep reading it.	2004-11-17
459528:US	52966385	R3FZPC7UQLOPDJ	073642265X	676000355	The Incredible Dash (The Incredibles Step into Reading, Step 3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not So Incredible	With THE INCREDIBLES movie being such a hit and since the film is distributed by Disney, there's bound to be some supermarketing going on. THE INCREDIBLE DASH is one such item that ties into the Mouse's marketing campaign. The book is supposedly told from the viewpoint of Dash, the middle child in the Parr (or Incredible) family. Basically, the book explains in very easy to understand language the story told in the movie. The book is labeled as a &#34;Step 3&#34; step into reading book, but shouldn't be difficult to handle at all for any child half way through the first grade. The hardest words to read are the names of some of the characters, such as Omnidroid and Syndrome. There really isn't anything to set the book apart from any other books of its type, but since it is a tie-in to THE INCREDIBLES it might encourage reluctant-reading younger children to pick up a book and read. The least incredible of THE INCREDIBLES merchandise that I have seen or read thus far.	2004-11-11
462328:US	52966385	RBFPZJIKT04WD	0736422722	97400716	Return of the Supers! (The Incredibles Pictureback)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Part of the Story.	This short children's story tells part of the story told in THE INCREDIBLES. It explains how the supers (superheroes) returned from hiding. The story is told in comic book/story board format. The illustrations are very vivid and vibrant, having been designed from original frames from the movie.  There isn't a whole lot here, but since THE INCREDIBLES are so incredible, I give the book a little higher ranking than the average movie tie-in fair.  Great gift for kids or any fans of THE INCREDIBLES.	2004-11-09
467421:US	52966385	R1GQET6AZRCD0X	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dreadful, Dreadful Things Happen to Our Heroes.	Dear Reader,<br /><br />When we last left the adorable Baudelaire children they had just narrowly escaped losing their fortune and being killed by their nefarious relative, Count Olaf. THE REPTILE ROOM begins almost immediately where THE BAD BEGINNING ended.  The bumbling Mr. Poe has made arrangements for the children to come and live with an uncle, Dr. Montgomery Montgomery.  Uncle Monty, as the children come to know and love him, is a world famous herpetologist. The children live with him for a week and he teaches them all about the snakes he has collected throughout his life (he keeps them in the reptile room), gives them good things to eat, and takes them to the movies every night.  He's also planning on taking them to Peru on his next exploration trip. But, alas, the short-lived happiness of the children is shattered by the arrival of a hated person from their past. What follows is a tale of misery and dread and woe that I can't bear to repeat fully hear.  There is air that smells like horseradishes, an Incredibly Deadly Viper, a car accident, and threats to chop off Sunny's toes.<br /><br />It's not all completely bad. There are a few positive moments in the telling.  The wonderful puns and vocabulary jokes that filled THE BAD BEGINNING carry over to THE REPTILE ROOM.  There is a very long waring about never ever playing with electric devices.  There is also a keen insight into the only time that it is okay to lie.<br /><br />However, be warned, friends, THE REPTILE ROOM is even more depressing than THE BAD BEGINNING.  Children should probably not read this book, even those who have been exposed to good classical literature.  THE REPTILE ROOM could make them curl in a ball and hide under their covers in bed at night. Very little light shines in the story and things are very dark: the villian in the story curses (just once) before the children, he threatens to kill them several times, and he actually murders a couple of people.  Lies and deceit abound. This is not a happy-tale. This is not a semi-cheerful story. This is not even a tiny somewhat positive yarn. No, this is a dreadfully sad state of affairs. It is a most serious series of unfortunate events, indeed. I hope the Baudelaire siblings find some rest when they come to live with Aunt Josephine who lives in the house with THE WIDE WINDOW. Probably not, but we can still hope.<br /><br />Sincerely,<br /><br />Uncle TVis is not a happy-tale. This is not a semi-cheerful story. This is not even a tiny somewhat positive yarn. No, this is a dreadfully sad state of affairs. It is a most serious series of unfortunate events, indeed. I hope the Baudelaire siblings find some rest when they come to live with Aunt Josephine who lives in the house with THE WIDE WINDOW. Probably not, but we can still hope. <br /> <br />Sincerely, <br /> <br />Uncle TV	2004-11-04
468895:US	52966385	R19K22Q3R616D9	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	And So the Story Begins.	Dear Reader,<br /><br />THE BAD BEGINNING is the first of a series of books entitled \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events.\\"  The author, Lemony Snicket (whose real name is Daniel Handler) warns the reader several times: on the back cover of the book, in the opening section of the book, and several times throughout the book; that the book is \\"extremely unpleasant\\" and if you like nice, fluffy, happy stories that you should put the book down and read something else.<br /><br />THE BAD BEGINNING briefly explains how the three Baudelaire children-Violet, Klaus, and Sunny-became orphans, how the first met their evil relative Count Olaf, Count Olaf's first scheme at stealing their money, and how they moved from one series of unfortunate events to another.<br /><br />THE BAD BEGINNING is not the typical \\"children's book.\\" In fact, if a child hasn't been exposed to much classical literature, fairy tales, or life experiences, they probably shouldn't be reading the book at all because it might frighten them by exposing them to all the nastiness in the world.  However, if a child has read any classical literature or fairy tales (where there is all kinds of violence and bad things going on) or has had a lot of life experiences (my grandfather died when I was in the 3rd grade) then they might actually enjoy reading THE BAD BEGINNING.<br /><br />Mr. Snicket has a delightful time with language and a child's vocabulary is sure to increase after having read THE BAD BEGINNING. They also might learn a thing or two (though they might not be able to understand what they learn) about law and justice.  They are sure to find themselves saddened by the unfortunate state of the Baudelaire siblings, yet somewhat uplifted by knowing that as troublesome as their lives might be, the Baudelaire orphans have it much worse.<br /><br />Still, children probably shouldn't be reading THE BAD BEGINNING at all. It's a book that youth in their teens and young adults would probably enjoy and benefit from reading the most. Unfortunately people that age are often ashamed of reading and fear of their lives becoming unfortunate by reading such a book like THE BAD BEGINNING will probably prevent them from learning the lessons found therein. Such a shame. I hope the Baudelaire children find happiness sometime.<br /><br />Sincerely,<br /><br />Uncle TVg the most. Unfortunately people that age are often ashamed of reading and fear of their lives becoming unfortunate by reading such a book like THE BAD BEGINNING will probably prevent them from learning the lessons found therein. Such a shame. I hope the Baudelaire children find happiness sometime.<br /><br />Sincerely,<br /><br />Uncle TV	2004-11-02
469459:US	52966385	R7SUHNZELI20O	0670878553	676865757	Joseph Had a Little Overcoat (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Symphony of Color.	Poor Joseph works on a farm and wears a little overcoat that is old and worn. It becomes so old and worn that Joseph has to cut and sew it into a jacket, but then the jacket becomes old and worn and Joseph turns it into a vest. And so on and so forth until Joseph learns that you can always make something out of nothing.<br /><br />There really isn't a whole lot of story here. However, what the book is full of are brilliantly bright colors and inside Yiddish-cultural references.  Each page of the book is filled with vivid colors that draw one's eyes all over the page like a motion picture, hoping not to miss a single thing. The book strongly appeals to children because of this color scheme and also because of the cutouts on every other page that allow children an opportunity to guess what Joseph will make next.<br /><br />However, as delightful as children will find this book, adults with a background in Jewish culture might find it even more enjoyable than children do. On almost every page there are pictures, tiny letters, miniature newspapers, illustrations, etc. that allude to Jewish culture. I admit that I don't know very much about the Jewish culture, but was able to figure out a few of the references. I particularly was amused by the tiny hand-written letter and newspapers that had English headlines but the rest of the story was written in Hebrew. I think someone who could actually read Hebrew would appreciate things like that even more. This edition of the story also includes the lyrics and music to a song the author adapted, \\"I Had a Little Overcoat\\". Thanks, Simms Taback!	2004-11-02
469710:US	52966385	R2KV6UDTX7Y0IL	0073661163	192002994	Atlas of World Geography	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Good Resource	The Rand McNally ATLAS OF WORLD GEOGRAPHY includes an introduction about how to use the atlas; over ten pages of questions and answers about each of the 7 continents of the world; a section about the universe and solar system; more than 35 different tables and charts outlining islands, mountains, volcanoes, earthquakes, oceans, lakes, rivers, climate and weather patterns, and population; a section that includes all the flags of the world's countries, and slightly more than 110 pages of maps. The book is a fairly inexpensive and makes a great resource, especially in a classroom setting. It really comes in handy if one doesn't have internet access and is writing a report about culture or geography; it makes a great starting point. Its also a great book to study when cramming for JEOPARDY!	2004-11-02
472601:US	52966385	RMWHOKCFY3701	0802491766	279419159	The Truth About Same Sex Marriage: 6 Things You Need to Know About What's Really at Stake	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well-written and Biblically Sound	In the first chapter of THE TRUTH ABOUT SAME-SEX MARRIAGES, Dr. Erwin Lutzer lists the purposes that he wrote the book: to encourage and equip God's people to defend marriage, giving reasons why its definition should not be broadened to include same-sex marriages; written as an illustration of compassion to the gay community to illustrate that the Church (the true body of Jesus' believers) still offers a place of understanding, direction, and hope for all sinners; and finally that the book is written primarily intended for the Church as a call to action and a reprimand for the double-standards and hyporicy in our own lives and for not truly following Christ. The book is divided into 6 short chapters. The book briefly explores how things got to way they got to be, offers solid reasons why Christians should should oppose same-sex marriages, and provides a few tips about what Christians can do to influence our society and culture and return to being the salt and light of the Earth.<br /><br />Lutzer's book is in no way defamatory or hateful towards homosexuals. The book was written in a spirit of mercy and grace. The only people that the book condemns are the members of the Church and how we have failed to live the life God has called us and lived lives full of hypocrisy by treating some sins more or less sinful than others. Sin is sin, whether that sin be lying, murder, adultery, child abuse, or homosexuality. In fact, THE TRUTH ABOUT SAME-SEX MARRIAGES makes a point at illustrating that those who struggle with the sin of homosexuality are no less human or loved by God than any other believer who sins (which is all of us).<br /><br />The book is informative, but it is quite short, too. Therefore it serves more as a primer than a hardcore examination of sin or a treatise on everything that Christians can do to start influencing society and culture again. I recommend this book for all Christians. It would especially appeal to those who know that they are opposed to same-sex marriages or think that they should be, but don't really know why.-sex marriages or think that they should be, but don't really know why.	2004-10-30
485355:US	52966385	R2SY7H0WWVC37S	091641079X	814596134	Learn Faster & Remember More: The Developing Brain, the Maturing Years and the Experienced Mind	Books	3	11	11	N	N	All About the Brain.	Despite the misleading title, LEARN FASTER AND REMEMBER MORE is an educational and informative book about the human brain.  The book is divided into three sections:  1. The Developing Years 2. The Maturing Years and 3. The Experienced Mind.  The first section talks about the development of the brain from the third trimester all the way through high school. The main issues in the section usually center around what parents can do to help make their children brighter.  The second part of the book deals with the brain from high school until around 55. This is probably the most applicable section in the book.  The third section is about the mind in the golden years of life and focuses on Alzheimer's and dementia.  The book is written with some of the latest research in neurology and other cognitive sciences to back up it's claims.  There are a few games and brainteasers here and there, but the book is mainly a descriptive book explaining how the brain works and offering some suggestions on how to better improve intelligence.  A few mneumonic devices are described, the importance of a good night's rest and balanced diet is discussed, and vitamins that actually improve intellectual performance are listed (for example, Vitamin E is just as important and perhaps more so than Vitamin B). The book is written for the lay person who doesn't keep up with the latest scientific findings.  Overall, I enjoyed reading the book, though some of the information was repetitive and some of the discussions \\"old hat\\" to me.	2004-10-19
489161:US	52966385	R17TI7W3DOJ4RN	0811214044	259104259	The Glass Menagerie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How Tennesse Became King	Tennesse Williams struggled for years to get his break as a writer and more specifically as a playwright. Williams finally got his break and came into his own when THE GLASS MENAGERIE was performed at the Civic Theatre in Chicago in 1944. The show was an instant success and finally brought Williams the fame and recognition he had been seeking most of his life. Though there are several differences (for instance, Williams' father never left his family--in fact the family wished he was absent more than he was) the play is a somewhat autobiographical play. The play has just four characters: Amanda Wingfield, the devoted and loving mother; Laura Wingfield, the fragile as glass daughter; Tom Wingfield, the supportive and oppressed son; and Jim O'Connor, Tom's friend and the \\"gentleman caller\\" who's visit brings about the play's climax. Williams called the play a \\"memory play\\" and that is exactly what it is--a look at time and family and the search for one's identity all through the lens of memory. Even though audiences have changed a great deal over the years, the play still resonates, almost as strong as it did when it was first written. Williams was a playwright, but he wrote almost everything in pure poetry and every line of THE GLASS MENAGERIE is filled with his poetic imagination and genius. As a side note, the play is usually interpreted as a straight drama. However, performed as a comedy, the play works just as well with very little substance getting lost. After all, it's all about memory and sometimes we need to look at something in a different way to remember it a little better.	2004-10-15
496891:US	52966385	R1XE5QSTWJVKQ3	B00005X273	174286630	United we stand : how we can take back our country	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Looking Back Through Time	A lot has happened since 1992. Bill Clinton was elected President to two terms and became only the second President to ever be impeached. George W. Bush was elected to President despite &#34;losing&#34; the popular vote (other Presidents were elected in the same manner). Even though the 1980s have been labeled as the decade of greed, the 1990s were the true decade of greed as money seemed to flow like water until the stock market bubble burst in 2000. September 11th, 2001 happened and changed our nation and world in a moment. We were able to do what the Russians weren't and invaded Afghanistan and ousted the Taliban. Later we invaded Iraq and captured Saddam Hussein. Back in 1992 it was a very different world.<br /><br />1992 was also an election year and in this heated election of 2004, I thought it would be interesting and read the book that eventually ended up causing George Bush (41) to loose the 1992 Presidential election. Bush (41) had a huge lead over the relative unknown Democratic governor from Arkansas, Bill Clinton, whose administration had been filled with scandals of every variety. In fact, at one point, most everyone agreed that Bush (41) was a shoo-in. Then Ross Perot and UNITED WE STAND arrived on the scene and everything changed in a moment. Unlike Ralph Nader in 2000 who never was a real threat to either Al Gore or George W. Bush, Perot really did cause Bush (41) to loose the 1992 election (Perot captured almost 19% of all votes cast). UNITED WE STAND is the book that ended up forming the foundation for Perot's campaign and also for the now defunct United We Stand Party.<br /><br />Even though over a decade has past since the book was published and 1992 is ancient history in the political world, UNITED WE STAND proves to be an interesting read. The book is basically a split between political philosophy and self-help inspiration. Much of the book is filled with encouraging statements: &#34;Only the people can remake our country.&#34;; &#34;We cannot expect our political leaders to lead where the people will not follow.&#34; ; &#34;We must repair the political system.&#34; The rest of the book contains many different ideas of how to improve things in the United States. Some of the ideas are things I agree with, for instance making it a criminal offense for any foreign entity to attempt to influence American laws or policies by means of direct or indirect campaign contributions and eliminating the unnecessary perks that our federally elected officials receive. Other ideas I am totally against, such as the recommendation to eliminate the Electoral College (if you understand why the Founding Fathers implemented the Electoral College, you will know why it cannot be eliminated) or his suggestion to implement a new ten cent gasoline tax. However, the most interesting things to read about are the things that have actually become realities. For instance, many lifetime politicians were kicked out of office when the people voted new legislators into office during the &#34;Republican Revolution&#34; in 1994; until September 11th, 2001 the federal budget deficit was eliminated; troops are being recalled from Europe back to the United States; national standardized testing has been implemented and No Child Left Behind is the only thing many people in education ever care to discuss in detail. These are all things that Perot proposed in UNITED WE STAND which have now become political realities.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading UNITED WE STAND. It found some of Perot's ideas to be intriguing and it was nice to finally see for myself what the hubbub in 1992 surrounding Perot was really about. History can be so interesting.expect our political leaders to lead where the people will not follow.&#34; ; &#34;We must repair the political system.&#34; The rest of the book contains many different ideas of how to improve things in the United States. Some of the ideas are things I agree with, for instance making it a criminal offense for any foreign entity to attempt to influence American laws or policies by means of direct or indirect campaign contributions and eliminating the unnecessary perks that our federally elected officials receive. Other ideas I am totally against, such as the recommendation to eliminate the Electoral College (if you understand why the Founding Fathers implemented the Electoral College, you will know why it cannot be eliminated) or his suggestion to implement a new ten cent gasoline tax. However, the most interesting things to read about are the things that have actually become realities. For instance, many lifetime politicians were kicked out of office when the people voted new legislators into office during the &#34;Republican Revolution&#34; in 1994; until September 11th, 2001 the federal budget deficit was eliminated; troops are being recalled from Europe back to the United States; national standardized testing has been implemented and No Child Left Behind is the only thing many people in education ever care to discuss in detail. These are all things that Perot proposed in UNITED WE STAND which have now become political realities.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading UNITED WE STAND. It found some of Perot's ideas to be intriguing and it was nice to finally see for myself what the hubbub in 1992 surrounding Perot was really about. History can be so interesting.	2004-10-08
499903:US	52966385	R2OHC0RURNXRAS	0761317910	385523172	The Man Who Walked Between the Towers (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	To Dream the Impossible Dream.	THE MAN WHO WALKED BETWEEN THE TOWERS was written and illustrated by Mordicai Gerstein and tells the true story of Philippe Petit.  Petit was a transplant to New York and was basically a street performer, though in his native home of Paris, France he had been famously known for his skill as a tightrope walker.  As the Twin Towers were nearing the end of constrution in the summer of 1974, Petit decided to try the impossible and walk between the towers.  So, on the evening of August 7, 1974 Petit and company snuck into the Twin Towers and under the cover of darkness went about setting up a high wire between the buildings.  As morning dawned and the people of the city began their busy day, Philippe began walking between the buildings.  The people below soon discovered what was going on and the authorities were called in.  However, there really wasn't anything to be done until Petit finished with his act. Petit was later sentenced to many hours of community service (I believe he was also fined).  However, the day he walked between the towers was a day that people never will forget.<br /><br />THE MAN WHO WALKED BETWEEN THE TOWERS is about a man who did something illegal and in a legalist point of view, it is not a story that is probably appropriate for children.  But the story doesn't hold up Philippe Petit as a man who should be honored because of the illegal actions he committed. Instead, it is a story that reminds us that sometimes we have to think outside the box.  Sometimes we not only have to dream the impossible dream, but we have to live it as well. The book is also a remarkable tribute to all of those who died on September 11th.  The book reminds us that though the towers are no longer there, they still exist in our memories. Life is so short and precious. Make the most of every moment.<br /><br />The illustrations in the book accompany the text of the story quite well.  They aren't Gerstein's best, but they are impressive nevertheless and it's not difficult to see why THE MAN WHO WALKED BETWEEN THE TOWERS won a Caldecott Medal. A wonderful book for all ages.t to see why THE MAN WHO WALKED BETWEEN THE TOWERS won a Caldecott Medal. A wonderful book for all ages.	2004-10-05
509180:US	52966385	R3HYJTBI53922N	0802417582	625911487	My First Story of Christmas (My First Story Series)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A Christmas Story for Kids.	MY FIRST STORY OF CHRISTMAS is a book geared towards younger children that tells the story of Jesus' birth. The book is written in a very simple and straitforward manner.  Other than the usual vocabulary associated with Christmas (manger, shepherds, etc.) the words aren't difficult and should be understood by most children. Also, unlike many Christmas stories that have the shepherds and wise men arriving at the same time to the stable where Jesus was born, this story is more Biblically accurate as it illustrates the wise men arriving to see and worship Jesus several years after He was born. Roger Langton's illustrations that accompany the text are smooth, warm, and comforting; appealing the children's need for security. My only criticism about the book is that until the last page there is no mention why Jesus' birth was necessary; why it was so special. Other than that, this is a wonderful book telling the story of Christmas for young children.	2004-09-26
526632:US	52966385	R362BKD6YDVC2U	0613625935	786123916	Baby Penguin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	King of the Penguins.	This book talks about baby penguins and how they grow up. The book focuses on king penguins because that is the breed of penguin that the author and photographer studied and observed. BABY PENGUINS is very interesting. I learned several things about penguins that I never knew before, e.g. that after several months the parent penguins abandon their children so that they can learn to swim and fish on their own. The pictures that accompany the text are very realistic and add to the books authenticity. BABY PENGUINS includes a short \\"Did You Know?\\" section at the end of the book filled with other penguin related facts. A very informative science book that especially makes a nice gift for anyone who likes penguins.	2004-09-10
528847:US	52966385	R1ZY9FFGU612SL	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	4	44	58	N	N	It Begs to Be Answered.	John O'Neill and Jerome Corsi make it clear in the Introduction to UNFIT FOR COMMAND what the purpose of their book is and what they will discuss in the book. The writers represent the Swift Boat Veterans for the Truth (SBVT) and they claim that after listening to John Kerry propell himself into the national spotlight as the 2004 Democratic Party's Presidential nominee, on a campaign based upon his military record from Vietnam, they could no longer be silent and needed to let America know about the John Kerry they knew. The writers also make it clear that the SBVT are upset and angry with John Kerry for comments he made after returning from Vietnam as an anti-war protestor in the early 1970s because those comments have had an impact upon each of their lives.<br /><br />UNFIT FOR COMMAND is divided into two sections. The first section deals almost exclusively with John Kerry's military record. This section of the book examines the type of sailor Kerry was in Vietnam and explores each of the incidents in which Kerry received a major military honor (3 Purple Hearts, a Silver Star, and a Bronze Star). With each event, the authors put forth the story of Kerry's exploits as presented by the Kerry campaign, then the story of events as told by Kerry's biographers, and finally a version of the story as remembered by the Swift Boat Vets.<br /><br />Normally a so-called \\"political\\" book like UNFIT FOR COMMAND that is released in an election year, doesn't carry much credibility.  The biographies and untold stories that are rushed to the presses and released in mass are often nothing more than a collection of unsubstantiated claims written by hack writers who have very little talent and have done hardly any research. UNFIT FOR COMMAND, however, isn't like that.  Every claim in the first section of the book is backed up by at least two or three different eye witness accounts that differ from the stories told by Kerry and the ones told by his biographer.  Compounded with the fact that there are over 200 members of SBVT who oppose John Kerry's campaign and it really makes a person wonder. Why would so many veterans have stories that are so different from what has been fed to the media?  Would 200 veterans (some of them even more decorated than Kerry) lie about their experiences in Vietnam?<br /><br />The second half of the book explores the activities that John Kerry participated in once he returned home from his 4 month tour of duty in Vietnam. Most of the events described in the book are well documented as well, especially concerning Kerry's anti-war activities but others are based on assumptions (e.g. why copies of Kerry's book THE NEW SOLDIER have become so difficult to find). Still, though the language in this part of the book is much more biased (you can really sense the anger here) it presents the historical John Kerry of the 1970s in a fairly accurate light, which is completely different from the John Kerry who is running for President today.<br /><br />UNFIT FOR COMMAND is not an undocumented or sloppily compilied piece of political rhetoric. Instead, it is a decently researched book put together by a group of veterans eager to have their voice heard before, as they feel, things are too late. Can 200 veterans really be wrong? Read the book and decide for yourself.act that there are over 200 members of SBVT who oppose John Kerry's campaign and it really makes a person wonder. Why would so many veterans have stories that are so different from what has been fed to the media?  Would 200 veterans (some of them even more decorated than Kerry) lie about their experiences in Vietnam? <br /> <br />The second half of the book explores the activities that John Kerry participated in once he returned home from his 4 month tour of duty in Vietnam. Most of the events described in the book are well documented as well, especially concerning Kerry's anti-war activities but others are based on assumptions (e.g. why copies of Kerry's book THE NEW SOLDIER have become so difficult to find). Still, though the language in this part of the book is much more biased (you can really sense the anger here) it presents the historical John Kerry of the 1970s in a fairly accurate light, which is completely different from the John Kerry who is running for President today. <br /> <br />UNFIT FOR COMMAND is not an undocumented or sloppily compilied piece of political rhetoric. Instead, it is a decently researched book put together by a group of veterans eager to have their voice heard before, as they feel, things are too late. Can 200 veterans really be wrong? Read the book and decide for yourself.	2004-09-08
534365:US	52966385	R17ZKQSNC4MJ3E	0375811206	671903034	Lewis and Clark: A Prairie Dog for the President (Step into Reading, Step 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	History Can Be Fun.	LEWIS AND CLARK: A PRAIRIE DOG FOR THE PRESIDENT is a step 3 young readers book that discusses how the Lewis and Clark expedition began, what it's purpose was, and some of the strange sights that the group of explorers saw. The story has some words that the youngest of readers might not be able to handle, but contains enough familiar words and phrases that somewhat older readers (1-3rd graders) won't have any problems and might pick up a few new vocabulary words. The illustration by John Manders is really what makes this book stand out as it adds a depth of humor to the text that would otherwise be lacking. For instance, the picture of the overburden scout carrying a cage with a prairie dog and another with some magpies, traveling to Baltimore to deliver the plants, animals, and other goods and a letter to the President is quite funny. Overall, this is a really good book that children will enjoy reading and learn some history in the process.	2004-09-02
552313:US	52966385	R265M3KIQD0SXC	1891442260	523141879	Meet Me In St. Louis, Limited Anniversary Edition	Books	5	22	22	N	N	"Right here in St. Louis."	MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS is the book that inspired both the beloved musical and movie by the same name. The book was originally published as a series of stories in NEW YORK MAGAZINE. The stories were collected and edited together and published as a book in 1941.  It was a bestseller. This special edition of the book was published in honor of the 100th Anniversary of the St. Louis World's Fair.<br /><br />The book is divided into 12 chapters, one for each month from June 1903 to May 1904. The chapters describe the quirky adventures that takes place in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Lonnie Smith of St. Louis. The Smiths have five children: one son and four daughters. The children along with Mrs. Smiths' father, Grandpa Prophater, are involved in all sorts of mischievious delight, usually to the chagrin of Mr. and Mrs. Smith. The book culminates in their experiences during the opening month of the World's Fair.<br /><br />MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS is a delightful work of storytelling. The characters in the book reminded me of members of my own family and reading about them often caused me to chuckle as I reflected upon my own adventures of youth. The story is also a wonderful piece of history, describing events of the past in vivid details. It's hard to imagine after two world wars, countless other international missions, and the terrorism that threatens American life that the world was once a much safer and simpler place. MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS reminds us of that. And of course, being from the St. Louis area, it's nice to have a book that takes place and celebrates the area, \\"right here in St. Louis.\\"	2004-08-18
552578:US	52966385	R2JXKLXSQ3AE5B	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Classic Sci-Fi Short Stories.	I, ROBOT is a collection of nine short stories revolving around Susan Calvin, the world's first robopsychologist. The premise of the book is that after spending almost six decades working with U.S. Robots, Susan Calvin is on the verge of retirement. A reporter has been assigned to write an article about Calvin for the Interplanetary Press and he seeks her out to flush out the biographical information he already has about her. What follows are nine separate tales about robots who didn't respond and react in ways that a robot would and should typically. The stories are tied together because they are all incidents that happened during or just preceding Calvin's time at U.S. Robots. The stories also illustrate the importance of the Three Laws of Robotics and how those laws affect the ways that robots react: from a robot who seems to love a little girl to a robot that tells people lies to a possible robot who dabbles in politics. The stories are intriguing and rather imaginative, especially considering they were originally written around half a century ago. They are also fairly short and it doesn't take long to read the novel: I read I, ROBOT in less than a week reading for less than an hour a day. I, ROBOT is a great book to introduce oneself to the writing of Isaac Asimov.	2004-08-18
553760:US	52966385	R3QOA0N7VOA6TX	0374513252	276563136	Thoughts In Solitude	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Short, But Not Light Reading.	I bought THOUGHTS IN SOLITUDE because over the years I have become impressed with Thomas Merton's writings and because of a prayer that appears in Chapter II of Part Two of this book; the prayer was given to me several years ago and has become one I have prayed often. Merton makes it clear at the beginning that THOUGHTS IN SOLITUDE is not a book that everyone will enjoy or even learn from. The book is simply a collection of some of Merton's writings and prayers about living the life he was called to live; a life lived in solitude. The writings that make up this book are quite short. However, they are not light reading. In order to get the gist of what Merton was writing about and to allow the text to really soak into my conscious, I found myself having to re-read sections many times. I found the first section of the book to be more applicable to my life than much of what was written about in the second section, but there are some very useful bits there, too (the prayer I mentioned, for instance). I took a lot away from this book and it helped me revaluate the importance that solitude has in my spiritual life.	2004-08-17
557334:US	52966385	R4BU0I1SDA4QL	0439568390	479187489	Monster Blood (Goosebumps)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	It's Alive.	MONSTER BLOOD is about a twelve year-old boy named Evan Ross who is forced to spend a few weeks with his deaf great aunt. Evan's father is being transferred to Atlanta, Georgia and the only person who can watch Evan while his parents are househunting is great aunt Kathryn. One day while on a visit to an old toy store with his new found friend, Andy, Evan buys a can of stuff called \\"Monster Blood\\". Evan doesn't think much of it and he and Andy spend the afternoon playing with the green silly putty-type substance. However, as time goes on the monster blood begins to grow and starts to act like its alive.<br /><br />I enjoyed reading MONSTER BLOOD. It was pretty short and not too scary. It also had an unusual twist at the end.	2004-08-13
557923:US	52966385	R1EKBCY8MMK7SY	0310249473	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace? Visual Edition	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Truly Unique.	I'm really not the type of person who enjoys reading or looking at visual editions of books. I love to read and usually would rather read the original book and all it's words than look at something that's sort of the book, but not really. Don't get me wrong, I like pictures and illustrations really help me learn concepts better, but I prefer original texts to an inferior copy. I can't say that about WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE? THE VISUAL EDITION. This book captures the spirit of Yancey's book to a tee and instead of being a cheap rip-off, feels and even reads more like a companion. Beautiful pictures, powerful stories, well planned illustrations, and thought-provoking quotations are all woven together to display the power, mystery, and love of God's grace. I normally wouldn't recommend a book like this at all. However, this book is so well put together that I recommend this book to just about anyone.	2004-08-13
558046:US	52966385	R1BF6WFYL4N4SB	0486268675	495815924	She Stoops to Conquer (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Forgotten Gem.	SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER is one of the best plays to be written during the Restoration era. It's full of wit and great one liners, not to mention that it's a comic satire on the dramatic conventions of the day. The play is quite funny and when performed is one of the few \\"classical\\" (meaning anything pre-20th century) plays that all audiences seem to enjoy. Unfortunately, Goldsmith's masterpiece is seldom performed nowadays. Most American's have never heard of Oliver Goldsmith (is that the guy who directed PLATOON? is a typical response), let alone SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER instead tends to be one of those plays that everyone in theatre knows about, but that most people outside of the theatre universe don't even know exists. It's a shame because the play is a masterpiece of wit and comic timing and has so much to offer to modern day audiences.	2004-08-13
558260:US	52966385	R315HUZDJ9DTHS	1559703946	517308950	Prohibition: Thirteen Years That Changed America	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Excellent Source.	PROHIBITION is a great book to read if you want to know how Prohibition came about. The first half of the book does an excellent job describing how the 18th Amendment came about and the context in which Prohibition rose. There's a lot of key historical details there. Unfortunately, placing the event in context is not something that the author does for the remainder of the work. The last half of the book describes just a few major players during the Prohibition years and the downfall of Prohibition is written more as a brief epilogue than anything else.<br /><br />I found PROHIBITION to be a very interesting book. I enjoyed reading it and learned a few things. However, the subtitle of the book is \\"Thirteen Years That Changed America\\" and though he does extrapolate how those thirteen years changed America, there really isn't a whole lot in the book that really describes what went on during those thirteen years. Still it is an intersting read, especially since there are so few books out about this era of America history.	2004-08-12
558948:US	52966385	R1DFI8H2FMZ32E	0967271304	421979665	Unlocking the Mysteries of Creation: The Explorer's Guide to the Awesome Works of God	Books	4	38	42	N	N	Older Research, But Still Interesting.	UNLOCKING THE MYSTERIES OF CREATION is a visually stunning book that is divided into four different sections. The first section of the book talks about the creation, what nature tells us about the creation, how the Great Flood fits into science, and the unreliability of radiocarbon dating. The second section talks about evolution and the flaws in the theory of evolution. The third section is tightly connected with the second and illustrates \\"missing links\\" that were frauds, what happened to dinosaurs, and some often overlooked archeological finds that most people have never heard about. The fourth and final section of the book talks about ancient civilizations and how ancient man was probably more intelligent than modern man.<br /><br />I found UNLOCKING THE MYSTERIES OF CREATION to be a very interesting book. Some of the research is a bit dated and I often wondered why the author didn't use more recent quotes and magazine and journal articles than the ones he did. Nevertheless, the book raises some interesting points and made me think about some things I never thought about before. For instance, I've always believed what I was taught in school about ancient man: they lived a long time ago and weren't as intelligent as us; knowlege has only really started to increase in recent times. However, UNLOCKING THE  MYSTERIES OF CREATION made me evaluate what I had always believed. Maybe the ancients were much more intelligent than we \\"moderns\\" are. It still seems hard to believe, but I'm much more open to the idea now and can see that it is a possibility.<br /><br />UNLOCKING THE MYSTERIES OF CREATION is not a flawless book. However, I think it is a good book for lay people to read. It does a good job of presenting points of view that many have been blinded to and never thought about. Plus, it's got some great pictures and illustrations. There are even a few funny pieces scattered throughout (the baloney detector, for instance: not only is it funny, but it's spelled wrong!). If you are a serious scientist, this book is not for you. However, if you are someone who is curious why your worldview always seems to collide with what you've learned in school, you might want to check this book out.ng!). If you are a serious scientist, this book is not for you. However, if you are someone who is curious why your worldview always seems to collide with what you've learned in school, you might want to check this book out.	2004-08-12
559420:US	52966385	R1PPQDXNGQ7HC5	1558749780	503293565	Chicken Soup for the Teacher's Soul: Stories to Open the Hearts and Rekindle the Spirit of Educators (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Something for the Heart.	I purchased this book after I felt led to go back to school to get my teaching certification. I was struggling with my decision and was looking for something to provide some hope and perhaps a little inspiration. CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEACHER'S SOUL gave me a little of that. The book is filled with all kinds of stories and ancedotes all having to do with teaching and education. Some are humorous and some are uplifting and a few are both. Since purchasing this book, I have learned that teaching is indeed a noble profession. However, it's nice to have this book around to help remind me of that every now and again when things get rough. Carpe diem.	2004-08-11
559551:US	52966385	R231QFISCK6Z8Z	0573681503	612733340	1940'S Radio Hour	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Interesting Piece of Theatre.	THE 1940'S RADIO HOUR begins with a behind the scenes look at a small time radio variety show prior to going on the air. About a third of the way into the play, the cast get together to actually perform their one hour radio show. At this point in the play, the audience \\"becomes\\" the studio audience for WOV and what follows is an example of the radio shows that were so popular in the late 1930s and throughout the 1940s. This play is kind of unique and provides a great experience for actors, techies, and directors. The cast is truly an ensemble and there isn't a small role. So sit back and relax and enjoy a trip back through time to the good old days of yesteryear.	2004-08-11
560034:US	52966385	R2QU6WP7A3Y2QM	0916291529	867603994	The Gas We Pass: The Story of Farts	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Everybody Does It.	I first heard about this book while sitting at a table and someone passed some gas. THE GAS WE PASS was mentioned in the conversation that followed and it left me curious to find this book and read it. I found it to be rather informative, entertaining, and hilarious. This book was written as an informative lesson towards children explaining why people pass gas and the importance farting has for our bodies. The book does that job well, while at the same time educating one with several interesting facts; for instance, the average person passes about 2 cups of gas in one day. However, the book is also hysterical, largely because of the illustrations that accompany the text and the unusual syntax, e.g. \\"So, don't hold them in--pass that gas!\\", and, therefore, makes a great gag gift to give to someone. Though some might be offended by the subject matter, most kids and adults will enjoy reading this book. I know I did. \\"Fartheewell.\\"	2004-08-10
560061:US	52966385	R3O952JJM4CWDS	0670030422	383275834	On Politics and the Art of Acting	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Interesting But Skewed	Arthur Miller is a brilliant playwright who helped changed the landscape of American theatre. Therefore, he does know a lot about acting. At the same time, I know from personal experience that Miller likes to talk and his political leanings aren't very secretive. ON POLITICS AND THE ART OF ACTING, Miller attempts to illustrate how acting goes hand and hand with politics and how the media has helped transform presidential elections so that no longer is it the best person that wins, but the person who is the better actor. The book has two distinct main points. The first being to discredit President George W. Bush. Miller's bias and sublime hatred toward the President are obvious. He tries to sugar coat his intellectual attack by making the case that there other Presidents that he admired (FDR) were better actors (stars), but the tone of the work and the subtle stabs it gives makes it clear that Miller really doesn't like the President and that all he wants to do is discredit him in any way he can. The second point of the book is the point the book ends on: that no matter what our failures as a people, culture, society, and a civilization, our Art will stand the test of time and it is our Art that people will remember and that we will be rememberd by. Art will save us. It's an interesting point to think about, though largely misguided, but when one realizes that the person making it is an Artist himself with an ego that needs boosting, it seems much more farcical than the supposed \\"failure\\" of the system in the 2000 Presidential election. Despite these faults, the book is interesting to read and gives a glimpse of the inner thought process of one of America's most beloved playwrights.	2004-08-10
560572:US	52966385	R2SHMMZNZ2RMCW	0060571322	648213876	Spider-Man 2: The Daily Bugle Stories	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Inside a Newspaper.	THE DAILY BUGLE STORIES is a collection of editorials, reviews, letters to the editor, columns, and features that supposedly appeared in New York's DAILY BUGLE. The writings fill in some details left out in SPIDER MAN 2, but at the same time they don't give any real information away about the movie that wasn't already seen in the trailers. The prime reading audience of the book are older children and young teens, but an adult can still read it and gain some enjoyment. About the only major complaint about the book is that it contained several typos. These were probably overlooked as the publisher rushed to help pump up the hype for SPIDER MAN 2 the movie. There's not a whole lot else here, therefore, school age students who are fans of Spider Man or any of the Spider Man films will probably enjoy reading this book the most.	2004-08-09
561597:US	52966385	R23JCHGSRDCXEZ	0595291783	402679291	The Spoiler: Revealing the Secrets of Survivor	Books	2	27	28	N	Y	Memoirs from a Message Board.	I thought THE SPOILER would be a more in depth look at the \\"controversy\\" over the posts that The ChillOne posted at SurvivorSucks.com before and during the viewing of Season: Amazon. The first three chapters were rather interesting as they described how The ChillOne happened to discover the information that he would later post on the SurvivorSucks message board. However, other than the last chapter, the book is basically nothing more than a play by play description on what went on at the message board. It's not very interesting reading and one gets the impression by how the author continually refers back to his quest to be inducted to \\"Monster Island\\" (from the book I gather it's a place of honor for spoilers at SurvivorSucks.com) that he has a very large ego. There aren't very many people around who would believe that because they happened to spoil some major points of a reality show that they deserve better than the rest of us; I mean I'm all for everybody getting their 15 minutes of fame, but this is a little ridiculous.<br /><br />THE SPOILER is not a book that many people can read and enjoy or even be amused about. In fact, the book doesn't offer much other than wondering about arrogancy and if one could become as inflated as the author if ever presented in the same situation. I would only recommend this book to really hard core SURVIVOR fans. Other than that, I would stay away, unless maybe your looking for a good laugh.	2004-08-09
653622:US	52966385	R26VNW903NLK99	0595239498	715267477	Ride the Wild Trail	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	An Average Yarn About Some Not So Average Folks.	Tom Mix, Hoot Gibson, and Wyatt Earp did know each other and were good friends. In fact, Mix was a pallbearer at Earp's funeral. This is a fictionalized account about the three famed men (along with the narrator) getting together for some last adventures riding the wild trail (what was left of the wild west).<br /><br />I found the character background to be really interesting and many of the historical details in the book are accurate which makes the book read more like a memoir or travelog than a novel. However, the book doesn't really contain much action. The boys set out to ride the wild trail one last time, but basically all they do is drive around in a car and ride around on trains. Also, the big showdown with the Miller brothers is supposed to be the climax of the story, but it's completely anti-climatical.<br /><br />RIDE THE WILD TRAIL isn't a bad book. It's a fairly interesting story, but with the famous people the story involves, I expected something a little more entertaining than an average yarn.	2004-05-26
655028:US	52966385	R2AVC33QX9MV9Q	0785263705	407388798	Blue Like Jazz: Nonreligious Thoughts on Christian Spirituality	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Life's Like a Movie.	Several years ago I had the opportunity to read Donald Miller's freshman book, PRAYER AND THE ART OF VOLKSWAGON MAINTENANCE.  That book chronicled Miller's cross country journey in an old Volkswagon bus from Texas to Oregon traveling with a close friend, exploring the book of Ecclesiastes along the way. After searching for new material from Miller, I had heard he was supposedly working on a novel. Then at the end of last summer, I happened to discover BLUE LIKE JAZZ at a Barnes and Noble on my way home from a summer of camp counseling. I was so happy to see something new from Miller.<br />In some ways the book is a \\"sequel\\" to his previous work, but that's not really the best word to use. The book references events from PRAYER and both books are pieces of nonfiction. However, prayer was the story of a journey and though BLUE LIKE JAZZ kind of continues the journey, it's more of a collection of nonfiction essays and rambling memoirs than a story.<br />Miller is an honest writer. His style is also extremely vivid and he is a master of metaphor and poetry. The book is filled with all sorts of colorful people and memorable events (for instance, comparing penguin sex to faith over coffee while chatting with a minister at a coffee house). Yet, the tone of BLUE LIKE JAZZ is completely different than that of PRAYER. Miller seems to have grown in wisdom and maturity over the years, yet lost any childlike excitement and innocence.<br />I enjoyed reading BLUE LIKE JAZZ. I didn't agree with everything Miller had to say in the book. However, it has challenged me to revaluate the way I have been living my own life. The book is subtitled \\"nonreligious thoughts on Christian spirituality\\" and Miller confesses in the book that he has not always viewed \\"religous\\" people in a positive light.  After reading the book, I realized I am a religous person and I don't believe that there is anything wrong with Christianity. Yet, though I don't share all the same views Miller does, I also realized that many of his struggles, are my same struggles.  Often, things aren't exactly what they appear and stars can sparkle blue like jazz.zed that many of his struggles, are my same struggles.  Often, things aren't exactly what they appear and stars can sparkle blue like jazz.	2004-05-25
678064:US	52966385	R1CKX4UB566LSD	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Quirky People and a Murder Trial Unlike Any Other	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL is a piece of nonfiction. However, it's not really a crime story, nor is it a straight biography/memoir. Instead, the book falls somewhere in between the two. The story revolves around the author's experiences living in Savannah, Georgia and meeting up with Jim Williams and his trial for murder that ended up being tried four different times over a period of eight years. The murder and the trials are kind of interesting and they are the threads that hold the story together. However, the really interesting parts about this book are the people. From Luther Driggers, a man who has a bottle of poison that could kill off everyone in Savannah, Georgia to the transvestite Lady Chablis to the voodoo mistress Minerva, this book is filled with quirky people. After reading the book it occurred to me that Savannah, though a city, reminds me of every small town I've ever lived in. People not familiar with small towns will probably find the characters interesting, but people who grew up in small towns might be amazed because they probably know someone who is an awful like one of the characters in the book. A very interesting read and a book that I didn't want to put down until I had finished it.	2004-05-06
678090:US	52966385	R2WT883IA9IZ6G	0152010068	720078700	Antarctic Antics: A Book of Penguin Poems	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Poems About Penguins.	First of all, I love this book because I love penguins. However, as a piece of children's literature, it's so much more. This is an excellent example of how literature (poetry) and science can go hand and hand. There are some poems in this book that seem written just for fun, (e.g. \\"Be My Penguin\\"). However, most of the poems in this book are written about and around actual behaviors that penguins exhibit: from regurgiating their food to feed the young (\\"Regurgitate\\") to the motherly instincts of father penguins (\\"A Hatchling's Song\\" and \\"My Father's Feet\\")  to poetic riddles about penguin predators (sea lion, killer whale). The book is charming, easy to read, and full of delightful penguin illustrations. A great gift for any child interesting in science or literature or anyone who (like me) just loves penguins.	2004-05-06
678425:US	52966385	R2MVGG9B2BXO0T	0811825582	477745109	Penguin Dreams (I Can Sleep Book)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Bizarre Book	I picked up PENGUIN DREAMS because penguins are one of my favorite animals and I'm always on the lookout for a good penguin book to share with children I know. The book doesn't have a lot of words and has some really interesting pictures. Basically, there's this penguin called Chongo Chingi (sounds like a monkey name to me) who falls to sleep and has a dream. And what a bizarre dream it is. I'm not sure how much younger children will enjoy this book, but for those around kindergarten age and older it might be a hoot. Actually, even though it's a children's book, adults are probably the people who can most appreciate the book's artistic splendor. Little kids will probably find it boring.	2004-05-06
678730:US	52966385	R1J68QBXGPA5WT	0307302105	902600087	My First Little Mother Goose	Books	4	4	4	N	N	She Is a Mother and a Goose.	The title to this collection of nursery rhymes is song lyrics is rather misleading because 1/3 to 1/2 of the rhymes in this book aren't actually from \\"Mother Goose\\".  However, there is a mother goose on the cover reading stories to various animal children.  All of the illustrations in the books are of human-like animals. There are only 22 total different rhymes, but the book is small and young children will enjoy having it read to them and looking through the pictures.	2004-05-06
678836:US	52966385	R12AYVT4OKPKS7	0152167366	129918907	Jackalope	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This strange creature is sure to eventually turnip somewhere	I purchased this book because it had such an intersting title:  JACKALOPE.  Simple, yet mysterious.  A jackalope is an imaginary (well, maybe not totally imaginary) creature that has the body of a jack rabbit and the horns of an antelope.  This book is \\"the absolute truth\\" about what happened to the jackalope.  The story is narrated by a crudgy old armadillo who sits in a lawn chair.<br />Basically, there once was a jack rabbit named Jack who wasn't happy being who he was. He wanted to be a fierce and frightening creature. One day he wished upon a star and his fairy godrabbit appeared and gave him the horns of an antelope. But there was a catch, but Jack was so excited, he didn't listen to what the catch was.<br />This is a hilarious story that mixes everything together from American tall tales to classic fairy tales. There's a little bit of Cinderella, Pinocchio, the big bad wolf (coyote) from Little Red Riding Hood involved.  There's also a touch of Aesop's fables and a magic mirror that is probably a cousin to the one in Snow White.  All of this and vegetable jokes and witty wordplay.  Plus, some really clever illustrations. Tack on a false ending and some scientific facts about jackrabbits, antelope, and horned toads and you've got yourself one mighty fine story. Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys a great story, age doesn't matter.	2004-05-06
679010:US	52966385	R1ULDTX4XGKSI7	0060256656	945451465	The Giving Tree	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All I Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten	THE GIVING TREE has become a piece of classic modern children's literature. It is the story of a tree who gives everything she has to a little boy. At first the boy loves in return, but then he begins to take and take and give nothing in return, until finally after many years the tree is nothing more than a battered stump. The boy eventually returns to the tree and though he never acknowledges any selfish behavior the tree offers him what little she has left and the relationship between the two is restored.<br /><br />I get teared up almost every time I read this story. To me, it seems to be a wonderful allegory about the nature of God's love and his relationship to humankind. God gives and gives and gives and we take and take and take, yet He loves us still, even though we are plotting our doom and will one day be brought low and destroyed for our transgressions. However, I also realize that there are several other ways of reading this books, too (there's the whole environmental take). Whatever way you read it, I find it amazing that the pot smoking Silverstein, who was known for using racy language, was also one of the foremost children's authors of the modern era and was able to write such a moving work. Knowing that, the effect of the story's moral is augmented.<br /><br />Anyway. Some might think that the moral lesson in the giving tree isn't right for young children to know. I disagree. Life's not always fair and though there are many children who see the selfishness of the little boy, many fail to see the selfishness in themselves and therefore miss out on the book's main point. A wonderful, powerful, and moving children's story.	2004-05-06
679024:US	52966385	R2R7XTGRPL0XC3	9990065675	723904484	The Three Little Pigs (A Little Golden Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not quite the same, but close.	This retelling of the classic story of the three little pigs isn't exactly like the original story, but it's fairly close. Momma Pig sends her youngsters out in the world on their own and when the Big Bad Wolf comes to blow their houses down, they don't move in with each other until they all end up at the brick house. Momma moves in with them, too. And the wolf, well he makes a nice stew.  Decent illustrations. Not the best version of the story out there, but it is a nice little book.	2004-05-06
679040:US	52966385	R3AR91H04G595X	0744594014	451711976	One Tiny Turtle (Read & Wonder)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Fun to Read and Very Educational.	This interesting book explains to children the basic life cycle of a loggerhead sea turtle. The book opens with a brief introduction explaining that a sea turtle is related to tortoises and terrapins, but they are different types of animals. After the one-page introduction, the actual story begins. We follow the life cycle of a sea turtle called Loggerhead from the time she is a small turtle living and hiding in sea weeds and drift wood to the time Loggerhead swims to the mating beaches to mate and lay her eggs. The last pages of the book include a brief index that can help teach children what an index is and how to use it. ONE TINY TURTLE is a great reading science book for young children. It's very factual and realistic in displaying and describing what we know of the life of a sea turtle (for instance, after the eggs are hatched, it makes it clear that only a few baby turtles ever make it to the ocean and the rest are eaten by crabs and birds). Highly recommended, especially for anyone who likes turtles.	2004-05-06
680886:US	52966385	REW7T608W9ZUN	1568500300	172710608	The Actor's Little Instruction Destruction Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inside Tips and Jokes.	The premise of this short little book is that when the author's son decided to become an actor, he wanted to help him out as best he could and created THE ACTOR'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK. Essentially, what it is 115 tips to uplift an actor's spirit and give them some pointers to make him more likeable and castable in the busines. For instance, one of the tips (#5) is to &quot;Audition well. Then, worry, about getting the role.&quot;  Or (#7) &quot;Send casting directors thank you notes.  Or (#44) &quot;Being an actor means not hesitating before admitting you're one.&quot; And another one I really like, (#102) &quot;The only thing to be said after your audition is 'thank you'&quot;.<br />Then there's the flipside. Literally.  You flip the book over and the other half of the book is THE ACTOR'S LITTLE DESTRUCTION BOOK. The premise for this part of the book is that the author's son wrote these parables as notes in response to the encouraging list that dear old Dad gave him. Basically, it lists 115 things that if done would probably end your acting career, but at least let you go out with a bang. For instance, (#57) &quot;Remember, although you can always be replaced, they can't replace you before you've done a lot of damage.&quot;  And (#80) &quot;Classical monologues should always be done with your arm extending towards heaven, as if holding Yorick's skull.&quot;<br />This little book is a delight to read for anyone who has had experience performing and makes a nice little gift for any actor or actress.	2004-05-04
681722:US	52966385	RDA50FXKQLBPF	0573618755	993058719	Lie, cheat, and genuflect: A comedy	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Nun, a Baby, and a Drunken Housekeeper.	This play opens with Tom and Billy Buckle breaking into their deceased grandfather's house the night before the reading of his will. Tom knows that he and Billy aren't going to get anything out of the will because they were a part of the \\"bad\\" side of the family. Tom knows that all the money is going to go to their cousin Lisa, whom no one has ever seen since she was a child. Tom's plan is to steal the money from the vault, bet it on a \\"sure winner\\" at the track the next day, and return it all and make amends with everyone. Billy doesn't understand why they are stealing money because they should have a really nice savings with all the money he's been giving to Tom to put in the bank. Except, Tom hasn't been putting the money in the bank but has been going to the races and blown everything and now both Tom and Billy are wanted by a notorious gangster/loan shark called Pizza Face. Well, things don't go anywhere near like Tom plans and Billy ends up spending most of the play changing back and forth from dressing up as Lisa, whom everyone becomes convinced is a nun, to his rightful himself. Along the way there all kinds of crazy escapades.<br />LIE, CHEAT, AND GENUFLECT is a play written in a style kind of similar to some of the old Abbot and Costello movies and Three Stooges shorts. However, this play is just a little more racy than those classical comedy bits and contains a lot more sexual innuendo. Nevertheless, it is a humorous comical farce with enough hijinx to keep most audiences laughing in the aisles.<br />Oh, and FYI, \\"genuflect\\" is the term given to the little bows that nuns perform. The title of the play makes a whole lot more sense once you know that.	2004-05-04
688418:US	52966385	R3DUEMQG1QAEA6	0974100005	50277113	Blue Wizard Is About To Die!: Prose, Poems, and Emoto-Versatronic Expressionist Pieces About Video Games (1980-2003)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Something Different.	BLUE WIZARD IS ABOUT TO DIE is heralded as being the first book of poetry written about video games. I really have no sure way of checking the accuracy of that claim, but as far as I know it's true.  The poems in the book discuss all sorts of games, including computer games and interactive games, but many are from the classic era of video games:  the days of Atari and classic NES.  Subjects of poems include Super Mario Brothers, Pac Man, Joust, Kid Icarus, Paperboy, Doom, Dragon's Lair, Mega Man, and Oregon Trail. The poems are very post-modern and some are simply deconstructionisms of the games they are about. When I first ordered this book, I thought it might be interesting to use some of the poems in my English classes to illustrate how poetry can be written about anything. I'm glad that I bought the book because I enjoyed reading it, but I won't be using more than one or two poems from it in my classes:  the book is filled with foul and inappropriate language. An interesting book of poems focused around a very interesting premise.	2004-04-28
689200:US	52966385	R2A0HLCETXPWXX	0802413633	555394641	The Heavens Before (Genesis Trilogy) (Volume 1)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Not Your Typical Romance.	I admit that I haven't read a lot of fictional romance books.  In fact, I can only think of about three truly fictional romances that I have ever read in my entire life: one was secular, one was a Christian romance, and the other one falls somewhere inbetween.  I read those books more out of duty and as a way of at least exposing myself to that type of writing. I really have had no intention of reading another fictional romance again, but when I had the opportunity to read THE HEAVENS BEFORE, I figured, &quot;why not&quot;.  Surprisingly, I was quite impressed with what I read.<br />The story is a retelling of Noah's Ark, told from the perspective of a young woman named Annah. Annah has not spoken since the murder of her father by her brother several years ago. Since she does not speak, everyone in her village assumes that she is an imbecile and they treat her as such. Annah's life seems miserable and one day she contemplates ending it all by drowing herself in the river. However, she is stopped from doing so by a handsome young man who lives on the other side of the river. From that moment on Annah's life changes forever.<br />I was struck by the careful use of visual imagery that Barnett-Gramckow uses throughout the book. She uses words to paint colorful pictures that evoke the mood of each scene in the book; for example warm descriptions for joyful places; jagged and harsh descriptions for violent people, places, and events. This is a somewhat unique style of writing and one that I really haven't come across before.<br />I also enjoyed reading about the story of the flood told from a different perspective.  Noah's Ark was always one of my favorite Bible stories growing up (and it still is really) and I thought the author brought an interesting take to the tale. People who might not have ever seriously thought about Noah's Ark might actually learn a thing or two by reading this book.<br />As much as I enjoyed reading THE HEAVENS BEFORE, it still is a fictional romance.  Despite the fact that the writing is better than the few romances I have read in the past and that the author brings something original to a very old story, it's still a romance and I'm just not much of a romance reader.ance.  Despite the fact that the writing is better than the few romances I have read in the past and that the author brings something original to a very old story, it's still a romance and I'm just not much of a romance reader.	2004-04-28
690659:US	52966385	R2903TMOQQKLKX	0325005478	67763430	Ten Easy Ways to Use Technology in the English Classroom: n/a	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Dinosaur Speaks.	I admit it. Even though I know how to check my email and use the computer and love the DVD player, I'm more of a technological dinosaur rather than a soldier on the front lines. I think technology can be a useful thing, yet at the same time I think we've become too dependent upon technology in our society. We created machines to help us, but the machines are really controling us.  As a future English teacher, my beliefs can present an interesting dilemma. I'm not that big a fan of technology, yet I am going to be required to use it in the classroom.  10 EASY WAYS has helped me see how I can somewhat painlessly do that.  The book is divided into 10 chapters: audio theatre, video projects, movies in the classroom, television as a short story, key pals, interactive writing, real research, concept-mapping software, class websites, and PowerPoint presentations.  The first four chapters deal with technology besides computers and the last six chapters are all computer related.<br />I enjoyed the first four chapters much more than the last six. To begin with, I think it's easier for teachers to incorporate movies, videos, audio theatre, and television into the classroom than all the computer stuff. I also believe that those things have a greater relevancy to an English classroom than much of the things discussed in the computer related sections. Most students are probably going to be more computer literate than their teachers are anyway. Besides, I'd rather foster a love for literature in students rather than waste classtime teaching them to use email.<br />With that said, 10 EASY WAYS has illustrated to me much better than other ways I have been taught, how I could incorporate computer related lessons into my teaching if I so chose. The only problem is, technology like the ones discussed in the book is constantly changing and some of the things the book talks about might not be around in a couple years. Nevertheless, the book is filled with useful ideas that any teacher of English can use.English can use.	2004-04-27
690733:US	52966385	R1CGL9U884WHVW	0321002156	243055030	Exploring and Teaching the English Language Arts (4th Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Methods of Teaching English Text.	I used and read this book as part of a class I had on the methods of teaching English. I've read a lot of textbooks in my post-high school educational experience and usually they are pretty dry, dull, and boring. Not so with this book. Perhaps it was because the subject matter is so closely related to what I am currently pursuing as a career (an English teacher) or perhaps it's because the book was written by a couple of English teachers so they knew all the textbook pitfalls to avoid.  I don't know. Whatever the case, this is one of a very few textbooks that I have read completely through that really didn't bore me. There are hundreds of useful tips and ideas and stories about actual teacher's experiences.  The book is grounded in theory and research, but once again, unlike other textbooks I have read, it doesn't seem like that. The book seems more grounded in actual practice than it does theory. The book talks about such things as a brief history of teaching English, how to create an integrated curriculum, what's needed to create a unit plan, fostering classroom community, young adult literature, using writing in the class, how to incorporate theatre and mass media into the classroom environment, and assessment.  My only complaints about the book is that it discusses assessment last (assessment should be discussed much earlier) and the book doesn't talk very much about classroom management. Overall, I think this is a great book for anyone who is thinking about teaching English or is preparing to student teach in a high school English classroom.	2004-04-27
691396:US	52966385	R3BZKGX8UVWE9X	0321055640	375266973	The Interpersonal Communication Book (9th Edition)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Too Much Theory And Not Enough Substance	I read through this book as part of an Interpersonal Communication class I took. I'll admit right off the bat that I have a biased view about the book because I read it in a class where I was the only person over 21 in a room full of freshman. With that said, I'm really glad I had the life experiences I've had to protect me from the leftists propaganda contained within. I'm also very thankful that I was never forced to read such dribble when I was a freshman in college because it can really mess you up. Most of the book is based in and upon interpersonal communication theory and there isn't a whole lot of practical information given. Not only that, but the book almost totally ignores the moral and ethical issues that are inherently apparent in interpersonal communication. Instead, the author has taken a humanistic (and fairly Machiavellian) approach and illustrates the power that good interpersonal communication skills can give a person. The book does have some good things to say, but overall it's more of a tool in brainwashing freshmen with useless knowledge than anything else. There's a lot of theory, but not much substance.	2004-04-26
705522:US	52966385	R1J3P6YH66U7EF	0072229233	215027205	The Healthy PC: Preventive Care and Home Remedies for Your Computer (Consumer Education)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A User Friendly Computer Book.	Believe it or not, there is an increasing technological divide in this country. Many people assume that everyone nowadays owns a computer and has access to the Internet and knows how to write an email.  But that assumption is wrong.  There are many people in the United States who don't own a computer (myself included) and there are many others who though they have access to a computer, really have no idea how to use one.  There are countless books on the market that will supposedly help people learn how to set a computer up and operate it, but most of these read more like technical manuals than a self-help book and prove just as confusing as the technology itself.<br />THE HEALTHY PC isn't like that. It's the only computer book I've ever come across that anyone can actually read and understand. Unlike many of the DUMMY-type books on the market, THE HEALTHY PC can be read and used by a person who has no previous computer knowledge whatsoever. Simple terms are used over complex ones and when a technical term is used, it is first explained. Also, unlike other books where the illustrations usually don't look like the monitor, THE HEALTHY PC is filled with illustrations that look just like scenes from a monitor screen.<br />The book provides such useful information as how to protect your computer against viruses, how to remove spyware, how to eliminate spam, how to back up and restore Windows configurations, and a whole lot more. It's all in THE HEALTHY PC.<br />This book is a computer book that was written and produced with the average Joe in mind.  I don't know much about PC's, but after reading THE HEALTHY PC I am more familar and better acquainted with the technology than I was before and know that when I face a PC-related problem in the future, I might be able to fix it on my own. THE HEALTHY PC is the only completely user-friendly computer book out there.	2004-04-15
706356:US	52966385	R3IEWE8YRE72UO	0525463577	10105627	BLOODTHIRSTY PIRATES, Wise Guides (Discovery Kids Pocket Guides)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ships Ahoy.	This short (only 32 pages) and well illustrated book provides an incredible wealth of detail about pirates.  The book briefly discusses such famous pirates as Blackbeard, Henry Avery, and William Kidd.  The book gives a brief history about pirates and it discusses famous women pirates, the reasons why people became pirates, different types of pirate flags, usual pirate possessions, pirate punishments, famous movie pirates, and the differences between pirates of the past and modern day pirates.  The book has lots of photographs and illustrations and contains many interesting facts. For example, pirates rarely made anyone walk the plank and instead perfered to throw people down onto the deck from high off the rigging. This is a great little book to give to anyone interested in pirates as well as a useful tool for anyone interesting in learning about pirates.	2004-04-14
714984:US	52966385	R349VHGQL1HC1O	0830823956	966060934	The Wedge of Truth: Splitting the Foundations of Naturalism	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Defense for the Faithful	I've listened to lots of debates about macroevolution in the past several years. I've read lots of books on the subject. From all that I've seen and heard, it places me in complete agreement with what Phillip Johnson has to say in THE WEDGE OF TRUTH. He points out things (ideas, concepts, etc) that the average person has probably never seriously thought about before and how those who follow a naturalistic faith use these things to exchange logic and true reason for rationality.<br /><br />THE WEDGE OF TRUTH is a book written for Christians. It illustrates to the reader some of the history of how things got the way they are and the flaws in logic that are beginning to cause the foundations of naturalism to quake and fall apart. Johnson expresses in the book that one of the purposes of the book is to help others become a wedge in the cracks of naturalistic theories so that others can come along later and use that wedge to break apart the false ideas and let truth shine forth. The book deals with such things as the difference between reason and rationalization and how rationalization is killing modern science, the problem of there being no information-enhancing process in naturalism, why naturalist fear the theory of intelligent design, the difference between mind and matter, and what can be done to reunite science and religion. I found the book very interesting and helpful. I think it's a book that any educated Christian who has at least some idea about the problems of naturalism would benefit from reading, especially if that person doesn't have very much scientific training.<br /><br />As a side note, I normally don't directly respond to other reviews that people have posted here, but this is a time when I will make an exception. After reading several of the reviews posted here at Amazon, it is clear that a lot of people who have written reviews for this book have not read it. The points they make and the criticisms they have are the very things Johnson discusses in THE WEDGE OF TRUTH and had the actually read the book, they would have realized that. Unfortunately, they haven't and probably won't. I hope that if you choose to read this book that you will, first, actually read it and second, read it with an open mind.THE WEDGE OF TRUTH and had the actually read the book, they would have realized that. Unfortunately, they haven't and probably won't. I hope that if you choose to read this book that you will, first, actually read it and second, read it with an open mind.	2004-04-08
715078:US	52966385	R23U8AM24RXF7K	1401201172	617577285	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen - Volume 2	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The End of the Fellowship.	When I read THE LEAGUE OF EXTRAORDINARY GENTLEMEN VOL 1, I was completely intranced and couldn't wait until the second volume came out so that I could find out what happened to the heroic group as they faced invaders from Mars. After finally getting my hands on a copy of the book and having a chance to read it, I was a bit disappointed. The second volume of the League finds the group facing an army of invaders from Mars. I thought that one of the more interesting parts of this particular volume is how Moore ties together Edward Arnold's LIEUTENANT GULLIVAR JONES, Egar Rice Burrough's John Carter, and H.G. Wells WAR OF THE WORLDS into one coherent prologue to the main story.<br />Anyway, hostile Martians start invading the Earth and the League is sent in to &quot;inspect&quot; the problem.  But, the problem gets out of hand and starts vaporizing people and things go nuts. Someone in the League thinks more fondly of the invaders than any Earthlings and decides to turn traitor. Quatermain and Murray are dispatched to find a mysterious doctor who has the one weapon capable of defeating the Martians and along the way the two seal their romance. Griffin plays a major role, but doesn't get much development and the great Captain Nemo doesn't fair any better. The only major character who really sees any development is Mr. Hyde. By now, Hyde has pretty much taken complete control and Dr. Jecyll is gone for good, though something of his essence makes Hyde a better character than he was before. In fact, Hyde is the only hero. In the first Volume, heroics were shared by everyone in the group and though they had there differences, the league was a united front. This time around, things start to fall apart and the appearance of the extraterrestrials seems too much to bear.  This second volume is more violent and bawdy than the first so the reader should be warned.<br />Besides the story, the book also includes many of the faux ads that were prominent in the 1st edition, some &quot;games&quot;, and &quot;The New Traveler's Alamanac&quot;.  The alamanac is especially interesting because it gives clues of what happens to the League after the events of the invasion and possible ideas of what might occur in Volume Three (if it ever comes about).<br />Overall, though Volume Two wasn't as exciting as the first, I still found it entertaining and highly educational. It's more popular than classical this time around, but it's still pretty good literature.;games&quot;, and &quot;The New Traveler's Alamanac&quot;.  The alamanac is especially interesting because it gives clues of what happens to the League after the events of the invasion and possible ideas of what might occur in Volume Three (if it ever comes about).<br />Overall, though Volume Two wasn't as exciting as the first, I still found it entertaining and highly educational. It's more popular than classical this time around, but it's still pretty good literature.	2004-04-08
717278:US	52966385	R4IBJRQCLLNOI	0897746384	223972024	100 Writing Remedies: Practical Exercises for Technical Writing	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Too Technical	We used this book as one of our texts in a technical and business writing class I had this past semester. The book is divided into eight different sections--not including the introduction, afterword, and appendixes. Each of the sections includes a set of word problems that are supposed to be worked on after reading through the &#34;bugs&#34; in that section. These &#34;bugs&#34; are problems that often occur in the writings found in a technical and business environment. Only about a quarter of these &#34;bugs&#34; (a total of 27 out of 100) are actual grammatical errors. The rest are suggestions the author has made to help those who have trouble writing, to improve their writing--making it easier to read and understand. Most of these suggestions are helpful and will improve a poor writer's basic writing skills. Most of these suggestions are also useful in technical and business writing. However, I do have two major complaints about the book.<br /><br />1. The book is incredibly boring, even for a textbook on technical and business writing. I'm not for sure what the author could have done to spruce things up, but I do know that I really had to struggle through some of the readings and workbook problems.<br /><br />2. The suggestions in the book are very legalistic. I had just taken a grammatical analysis course in the previous semester before taking the business and technical writing course where we used this book. A lot of what I learned in grammar analysis was in complete conflict with many of the &#34;suggestions&#34; in WRITING REMEDIES. I read the introduction to WRITING REMEDIES and understand the author's prescriptivist point of view, but I think that there are certain &#34;bugs&#34; in the book that are just too extreme.<br /><br />Overall, WRITING REMEDIES is a decent book to use for anyone interested in technical and business writing. That's what the book is written for and it performs it purpose well. Other than that, I really wouldn't recommend it. In fact, if you're teaching a high school English class or a college level English 101 class, please don't use this book in your class because it will scare students away from English rather than draw them to it.t, if you're teaching a high school English class or a college level English 101 class, please don't use this book in your class because it will scare students away from English rather than draw them to it.	2004-04-06
723429:US	52966385	R3HD1TYN9BX47H	0689819889	219036248	The House That Chuckie Built (Rugrats)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	At the Beach	This board book was made and written for very young children. The content of the book revolves Chuckie and his friends at the beach and what Chuckie imagines happens to them there. The story is sort of told in the fashion of the classic &#34;The House that Jack Built&#34; and the song &#34;There's a Hole in the Ground&#34;, but unlike that story and song THE HOUSE THAT CHUCKIE BUILT doesn't repeat every verse and moves quickly from one stanza to the next. Kids who are fans of Rugrats, and especially Chuckie, will enjoy this book the most. They will enjoy having the book read to them, will probably enjoy looking at the pictures, and will especially enjoy chewing on the pages.	2004-04-01
723490:US	52966385	R167ZGALAY3WQN	0142004278	569271944	Big Fish: A Novel of Mythic Proportions	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Big Pond.	There are a lot of forms of literature that you don't come across very often in current literature.  You don't find very many short stories being written and published nowadays. You don't find many fables or fairy tales either. And you don't find hardly any tall tales.  Besides the yarns about Paul Bunyan, Johnny Appleseed, Pecos Bill, John Henry, and a few others, there really haven't been very many tall tales written in recent memory (which is a shame since the tall tale is an almost uniquely American form of literature). However, BIG FISH is an exception.<br />BIG FISH is a collection of loose tales told by William Bloom as he comes to grip with his father, Edward's impeding death. Most of the stories have to deal with Edward's life before William was born, but a few happen later, and there are even a few that are current. Each story is basically a tall tale. Everything in the stories is big and most of it seems unrealistic, yet each vignette contains a yarn of truth. The stories represent William's desire to connect with his father, a man he hardly knows, before he passes away.<br />I purchased BIG FISH because I saw the Tim Burton film and adored it. I found out the movie was based off a novel and as soon as I was able to scrounge my pennies, bought a copy. I wasn't disappointed in my investment. The book is rather short (180 pages) and easy to read. At the same time, the story is filled with illusions to myths, fables, tales, and other pieces of literature (e.g. Edward Bloom's name is a nod of the hat to Joyce's ULYSSES). All of this is connected together to form a very sad and poignant look at a relationship between a father and son who love each other very deeply, but who barely know anything about the other. In that sense, the book is sad. Yet, it also has a subtle message (brought out more clearly in the movie) about how even the most fantastical tales of all might have some truth to them, perhaps even be true. At the same time, the book also explores the power of story and what stories really mean and how the affect and shape our lives and history.  All of this and and a glass eye that sees the future, a mermaid, and a giant too. Not too shabby for a bunch of tall tales.power of story and what stories really mean and how the affect and shape our lives and history.  All of this and and a glass eye that sees the future, a mermaid, and a giant too. Not too shabby for a bunch of tall tales.	2004-04-01
728376:US	52966385	R3LMYBDAMHT7EY	0226473716	608380358	The Perils of Prosperity, 1914-1932, 2nd Edition	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Overview of One Chapter in American History.	THE PERILS OF PROSPERITY 1914-1932 is a history book that gives readers a brief glimpse into American life during 1914-1932. The book is not meant to be a detailed account, but is rather an overview of events and attitudes of the United States at that time. I found the book to be easy to read, quite interesting, and full of information I had never come across before. Major events that the book discusses include the U.S. involvement in WWI, the U.S. decision not to become a member of the League of Nations, the Communist Red Scare that followed WWI, and the stock market crash of 1929.  Events that women and minorities were major contributors of get special treatment while other big events, such as Prohibition, are briefly discussed. Overall, even though the book skimps over certain major issues and events, THE PERILS OF PROSPERITY provides a nice overview of the time period providing a more balanced account of women and minorities' contributions to the era. The end of the book includes a list of important dates.  I enjoyed reading it and would recommend it to anyone interested in American history of that period.	2004-03-28
730566:US	52966385	R3TQ36G6CKI9WW	1576834786	147729556	The Gospel Reloaded: Exploring Spirituality and Faith in The Matrix	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Seeing God All Around.	I wasn't for sure what to think when I first started reading THE GOSPEL RELOADED. From the title, I thought I was going to be reading a watered-down book that illustrated the Christian allusions in the Matrix movies. However, I got more than what I expected. THE GOSPEL RELOADED does illustrate some of the Christian allusions that are prevalant throughout the Matrix films. Yet, the book also illustrates many of the other influences that can be found in the Matrix movies (comics, Easternism, etc). It also touches upon the possibility that the Matrix movies are films that are anti-Christian in nature. But mainly, the book compares and contrasts Christianity with the world view of The Matrix. The book tries to show how The Matrix fits into Joseph Campbell's research of a hero and how Jesus Christ was the ultimate hero.<br />The authors of the book are very intelligent and have a huge concern for impacting our culture. Nevertheless, the book does have two flaws. First, the book really doesn't flow that well together and kind of skips around from one point to the next without any transitions. Because of that, the book comes off as being more of a hodge-podge than an accurate comparison and contrast. Secondly, though the authors are clearly Christian and it is apparent they are trying to illustrate the similarities and differences between the Gospels and the Matrix movies, they never really do come out and say, &quot;Here's exactly how Jesus is different from Neo and here's how Christianity is different from the world of THE MATRIX&quot;. What ends up happening is that the authors end up doing more comparing than contrasting which is a shame. Still, I found THE GOSPEL RELOADED to be better than many Christian books on pop culture I have read and it presents a rounded enough approach that might attract non-Christians into learning more about the Christian faith.	2004-03-26
730600:US	52966385	R3DWSFG9Q5UURB	0345379802	873177288	The Han Solo Adventures: Han Solo at Stars' End / Han Solo's Revenge / Han Solo and the Lost Legacy (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Another Time and Another Place.	Long before Timothy Zahn wrote the the book that started the Star Wars book craze (HEIR TO THE EMPIRE), long before fans knew anything about the Star Wars Expanded Universe, before THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK and RETURN OF THE JEDI, and just a few years after the release of STAR WARS, Brian Daley wrote a trilogy of books dealing with some of Han Solo's escapades several years before STAR WARS. The books were some of the first and at the time very few items items that people could buy to learn more about two of their favorite Star Wars characters: Han Solo and Chewbacca. These books: HAN SOLO AT STAR' END; HAN SOLO'S REVENGE; and HAN SOLO AND THE LOST LEGACY were eventually collected together and sold in one volume as THE HAN SOLO ADVENTURES.  These stories take place a few years before STAR WARS and are rarely mentioned in the Star Wars canon. The bad guys aren't Stormtroopers from the Empire, but are soldiers of the Corporate Sector (the real reason behind this is because Lucas didn't have things figured out yet and didn't want anyone tinkering with the Stormtroopers from STAR WARS; you can't really blame him, I mean THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK hadn't even been made, yet). The Corporate Sector isn't mentioned very often in the new books, either. But it is on the maps and every once in awhile there are references to some of the things that take place in THE HAN SOLO ADVENTURES.<br /><br />In HAN SOLO AT STAR'S END, Han and Chewie track down an infamous ship rebuilder for a reward and because they need some repairs. Their quest ends up leading them to the prison planet of the Authority known as Stars' End.<br /><br />In HAN SOLO'S REVENGE, Han discovers that some special cargo he was supposed to transport turns out to be a group of slaves. Han hates slavery and anyone caught transporting slaves can receive an instant death sentence. Han forms a plan to foil the slavers and free the slaves.  Once accomplished, he sets out to get revenge on the people who set him up.<br /><br />Finally, in HAN SOLO AND THE LOST LEGACY, Han and Chewie set out to a legendary treasure planet. But there's a bounty on Han's head and once he and Chewie arrive, the Millennium Falcon is stolen and they find themselves being tracked and hunted by a group of assassins and killer droids. Never tell this man the odds.<br /><br />THE HAN SOLO ADVENTURES aren't deep and don't add much characterization to what we know about Han Solo. Yet, like the dime novels of long ago, the books are fun to read and are full of action. They're worth owning for anyone interested in classic Star Wars history, anyone who likes Han Solo, and anyone who is tired of reading the usual Star Wars novels that are currently available.LOST LEGACY, Han and Chewie set out to a legendary treasure planet. But there's a bounty on Han's head and once he and Chewie arrive, the Millennium Falcon is stolen and they find themselves being tracked and hunted by a group of assassins and killer droids. Never tell this man the odds.  THE HAN SOLO ADVENTURES aren't deep and don't add much characterization to what we know about Han Solo. Yet, like the dime novels of long ago, the books are fun to read and are full of action. They're worth owning for anyone interested in classic Star Wars history, anyone who likes Han Solo, and anyone who is tired of reading the usual Star Wars novels that are currently available.	2004-03-26
731259:US	52966385	RTZRVWYP4VD3O	0802430783	700257142	The New Bible in Pictures for Little Eyes Gift Edition	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Good Introduction to the Bible for Young Children.	Kids of all ages love stories and the Bible is filled with stories that children will enjoy listening to again and again. Sometimes, though, they want to \\"read\\" on their own and a regular Bible might not be what they are looking for. What they probably want is a Bible with pictures. THE NEW BIBLE IN PICTURES FOR LITTLE EYES is such a book. There are over 150 Bible stories contained in this little book. The Bible stories are compressed into a half-a-page tales which include some questions at the bottom. On the opposite side facing each story is a full illustrated picture that accompanies the action of the tale.  This is a wonderful book that young children will enjoy flipping through on their own. It's also a great book to read a few short stories to children at night. Best recommended for children ages 1 1/2 to 7.	2004-03-26
731984:US	52966385	R38U9P7IK1A5I6	0395629772	704971927	The Wall (Reading Rainbow Books)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Remember.	Over a quarter of a century has passed since the U.S. involvement in Vietnam came to an end, yet the effects of that conflict are still etched throughout the fabric of our modern day society. But another generation has been born in the time since the fighting ended. Many have never heard of Vietnam let alone the fighting that went on there.  How does one introduce a child to a subject that is still as electrified as the Vietnam War? Perhaps by reading THE WALL with them.<br />THE WALL is simply a story about a young man who takes his son to the Vietnam War Memorial to find the name of his dad. The young boy's grandfather died in the conflict and at the end of the book the reader knows the boy's head is full of questions.  The story doesn't answer these questions, but allows children to verbalize these questions themselves:  Why are there flags all around here?  Why did that teacher say the Wall belongs to all of us?  Why does that soldier not have any legs? The story can also be used as in introduction for not only the Vietnam War, but to also talking about war in general.  The illustrations and the story are molded together perfectly into one beautiful harmony. Sometimes kids will be anxious during a story, but when reading this story most kids will remain completely still, taking in the simple, yet profound story.  This is a great book to read to children not just during Memorial Day, Veteran's Day, or Independence Day, but at any time during the year.	2004-03-25
732734:US	52966385	R37IJJ04N3ZS9V	0395978270	253944481	A Single Shard (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Short and Sweet	A SINGLE SHARD tells about a young orphan boy named Tree-ear who lives under a bridge with an old man called Crane-man in late 12th century Korea. Tree-ear was brought to Crane-man by the monks at the temple several years ago. Perhaps they felt that the child would help the crippled man in his old age. Whatever the case, the two have lived together for ten years, living off of scraps from rubbish piles and fallen rice. One of Tree-ear's favorite activities is to secretly watch the master potter, Min, create works of art. Eventually, Tree-ear becomes Min's apprentice and sets forth on a journey that will change their lives forever.<br /><br />A SINGLE SHARD is a wonderful book. It is full of messages about honestly, heroism, and honor. It also illustrates the difficulties an artist has in being an artist and remaining true to the creativity within. Because it takes place in a different country (Korea) and at a different time (1300's), the novel is a great book to read as part of an interdisciplinary unit or just to learn some interesting information about the history of Korea. The story is told in a very easy-to-read style, yet the simplest words are often filled with depth. This is a wonderful book and won the 2002 Newbery Medal. After reading it, it's not difficult to see why.	2004-03-25
739204:US	52966385	R290H6EOJS1YDW	075345257X	127361123	Gray Rabbit's Odd One Out	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of These Things Isn't Like the Others.	In this addition to Baker's Rabbit series, Gray Rabbit is trying to find his favorite book. He can't find it because all of his stuff is messed up. So he sorts through everything arranging his things into piles where they belong. However, in each pile there is one item that is out of place. This oddball leads to Rabbit's next arrangement until finally he has gone through everything and found his book. Kids love Alan Baker's Rabbit books and with the brilliant colors, vivid shapes, and concept lessons that they help teach, parents will enjoy the books as well. Great book for preschool to kindergarten children.	2004-03-19
739298:US	52966385	R18PJQB1631ADD	0753452561	553169374	Brown Rabbit's Day (Little Rabbit Books)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	More of a Story.	BROWN RABBIT'S DAY is the first book in Baker's rabbit books that I have read that is more of a story than a book used to teach a concept. I guess the book does illustrate the concept of time somewhat since in almost every scene, Brown Rabbit's alarm clock can be seen showing the passage of time. But, the clock really doesn't have anything to do with anything else in the story. Basically Brown Rabbit is having a party for his friends and he has to get everything set up. He makes some jello. Then his friends arrive. They play some games and then they go home. Then Brown Rabbit lays down and goes to sleep. End of story. Children will enjoy looking through this book, but since it doesn't really have any lesson or concept to teach, I find that the book isn't quite as good as some of the other ones in the series. But, it's still one children enjoy.	2004-03-19
739541:US	52966385	R2QCB2BIOZMQ5P	0802424821	992319192	Survey of the Old Testament	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Guide to Scriptures.	Most Christians enjoy reading the Bible. However, just about everyone who reads the Bible has trouble understanding how all the different names, concepts, dates, numbers, etcetra fit into the overall picture. For people who don't own a study Bible that explains many of these textual references, Paul N. Benware's SURVEY OF THE OLD TESTAMENT is a great book to have. The book is very compact and rather small, making it easy to carry around. It's written in modern English and is easy to read. It's full of pictures, charts, and diagrams as well as a brief overview of each book of the Old Testament. Even for those who have a study Bible and are familiar with the Old Testament, SURVEY OF THE OLD TESTAMENT is a nice companion piece to have as a reference. After all, you can't always chug Strong's Concordance, a book of Ancient Atlases, and other materials with you everywhere you go. But you can bring along this small companion piece.	2004-03-19
759086:US	52966385	RSVGYK76IJJW8	015216765X	34698780	Penguin Post	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty Pictures and Play on Words.	This story is about a young Penguin named Milo. Milo's about to have a baby brother. However, mother has to leave home on a food expedition and father needs to deliver the mail. Somebody has to sit on the egg. Father wants Milo to, but Milo wants to deliver the mail instead.  So, Milo sets off an a journey delivering packages to all sorts of residents. He has a grand adventure and returns home for a surprise.<br />This is a nice, little story. I love penguins and I enjoyed reading through this book. However, it does contain a hole in the plot that will probably confuse readers (I still don't understand how the egg ended up in the bag). However, the pictures are vivid and colorful and the addresses on each package are filled with clever word play that slightly older children will love figuring out. Recommended for early elementary students.	2004-03-04
759647:US	52966385	R17NH0ILKOVSPX	0452274427	705687248	In the Time of the Butterflies	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Takes Awhile to Get Going.	IN THE TIME OF THE BUTTERFLIES is a fictional account of the lives of the four Mirabal sisters: Patria, Minerva, Maria Teresa (Mate), and Dede. The sisters were part of the original revolution in the Dominican Republic under the 31-year regime of dictator Trujillo. Patria, Minerva, and Mate were all killed by Trujillo's men. However, before their deaths the sisters had become the leaders of the revolution and had become known as &quot;Las Mariposas&quot;, &quot;The Butterflies&quot;.  This novel shows the four women as real people full of foibles just like anyone else. At the same time, it never diminishes how courageous the women really were and the noble spirit that thrived in them.<br />The novel begins rather slow and it takes some time before it begins to pick up speed.  However, once I finally got into it, I didn't want to put it down. It's was also a nice change of pace to read about four real-life heroines. At the same time, because the first half of the novel is more about the sisters' personal lives, it will probably turn many a male reader away. Also, there are a few racy bits here and there.  Still, overall the story is good and for me, the story is key.	2004-03-04
759666:US	52966385	RCDVRADT9W8AM	1881273768	479195671	Finding Your Million Dollar Mate	Books	4	14	15	N	N	It's Basic, But It's Important.	FINDING YOUR MILLION DOLLAR MATE is a simple book to read with a very simple concept. However, it's a concept that most people fail to recognize in life.  The premise behind the book is that most people date and eventually marry a person of the opposite sex based upon the physical and/or one's personality. The book points out that the most important thing in any relationship is the spiritual and that if two people do not share the same spiritual values, their relationship will probably not work out. People and their personalities change over time and if that is all that a relationship is built upon, it's almost sure to fail. However, many people usually don't think about that when looking for a mate.  Most are just lonely and want someone to spent time with. There's nothing wrong with that.  But, instead of just picking anyone to date and spend time with, a person should look for someone they would want to spend the rest of their lives with, not just a few fleeting vain moments.<br />This book is not real deep and doesn't contain any critical thought and that's not the point. It does have an important message that many people in this country have probably never seriously thought about before. This is probably a good book for relatively new Christians or non-Christians who are feeling discontent in their relationships and they don't know why.	2004-03-04
759738:US	52966385	RSZVYVQW843WA	0439466261	104760387	Supertwins #4	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Stealing a School's Library.	Timmy and Tabby are twins who have secret powers and are superheros known as The Supertwins. One day the twins go to school and are informed by their teacher that all the books in the classroom have been taken by the Book Worms to be cleaned. Every class in the school is the same way.  So, the students are dismissed until the books are returned. Timmy and Tabby know that it's a job for The Supertwins.  They have to travel into the school's basement to locate the Book Worms and foil their sinister plot.<br />This book is an enjoyable and exciting story. Through it's telling, it includes some basic scientific facts about worms. Also, at the end of the book there is a short vocabulary exercise to help students practice bigger words that they might not be familiar reading. Recommended for K-2nd grade readers or adults who like children's literature (like myself).	2004-03-04
764381:US	52966385	R3UNWTHR17EV9X	067358142X	154313062	Quilt for Kiri: Fluency	Books	4	0	0	N	N	When we are miles apart.	Kiri lives in a country many miles away from her grandmother. Her grandmother has never seen her, but sends Kiri letters and gifts on all sorts of occasions. Then Kiri's grandmother dies. Shortly after her grandmother's death, Kiri recieves one last gift from her.  It is an old quilt that Kiri's grandmother made long ago.  Kiri's parents mend and clean the quilt together and in doing so the mourn and remember and grow closer together as a family.<br />This book is short and easy to read.  It's a good text to use to help children who are struggling with reading. It has some nice illustrations. It also has a multicultural theme to it. A nice, short story.	2004-03-01
776104:US	52966385	R1LI2AS34SJSXT	0590819178	273375260	Scooby Doo and the Sunken Ship (Scooby-Doo Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In Limbo with a Ghost Pirate	In this Scooby-Doo Adventure, Scooby and the gang find themselves at Sandy Cove, an ocean resort where Daphne's Aunt Maggie and Uncle Murray live. The gang has come to help Daphne's family with Frye Fest, a local celebration in honor of the pirate Captain Horace P. Frye, to help raise money for the town. A big city developer is in the area and is buying up all sorts of land. Then the Ghost of Captain Frye rises from the sea and threatens to wreck Frye Fest. Something smells fishy, but if Scooby and the gang want to save Sandy Cove, they have to work fast and unmask the ghost. Good story.	2004-02-21
776321:US	52966385	R2EEXXUJ4JYJTT	0439080959	239780262	Scooby-Doo! and the Howling Wolfman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Look Out, Shaggy!	Scooby and the Mystery, Inc. gang headto the Lone Wolf ranch where Fred spent some summers as a kid. The ranch is celebrating it's 100th Birthday. However, the ranch is in some financial trouble and if the celebration isn't a success, the Lone Wolf might end up a dead wolf. Not to mention that people start believing a curse about a wolfman who has come to take curse the ranch. Zoinks!  What's the gang to do?  Figure out the mystery, of course.<br />I enjoyed this book. It's very simple to read and helps improve deductive reasoning skills, even in an old foggy like myself. It's a good story and seem just like one of the television shows.	2004-02-21
777078:US	52966385	RTIJ8XWJDMVQO	0740726641	574718429	Foxtrot:  Assembled With Care	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Best Comic Strip Since Calvin and Hobbes.	First Bill Watterson retired and there was no more new Calvin and Hobbes. Then Charles Scultz retired and unexpectedly passed away, so many newspapers stopped running Peantus. At first it would seem there isn't anything all that funny left in the funny papers. Ah, but one grand gem remains: Fox Trot.  Appearing about half a decade before the funnies started to become unfunny, Fox Trot remains as about the only witty and upbeat comic that can be seen in papers.  ASSEMBLED WITH CARE is a collection of two-year's worth of Fox Trot comics. I'm not for sure of the exact dates, but the strips ran around 1999-2000. The stories make grand observations on life, but are also constantly ribbing pop culture and (then) current events. Two of my favorite story lines are the one where Jason and Marcus imagine themselves acting in the just announced production of THE LORD OF THE RINGS (the director looks like a hybrid between Steven Spielberg and Peter Jackson) and the series that ran the week that Y2K could have happened (the comic strip finds itself back in 1900).  A great collection of one of the best comic strips still being written.	2004-02-20
786436:US	52966385	R2HBJXKTCHVRBT	0613275837	554697778	Wild Thornberrys Trivia Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not Just About the Show.	THE WILD THORNBERRYS TRIVIA BOOK does include a lot of trivia about the very successful and popular televsion show. However, about half the book contains facts and figures about things not directly about the show. For instance, there's a section that explains some British terms and phrases Nigel uses that Americans might not be familiar with.  There's also a section that tells about various wild animals. Of course, there's a lot of little tidbits about the characters themselves: things Debbie likes, things Donnie has eaten, etc.  This book is a great gift for any fan of THE WILD THORNBERRYS. However, it has a lot of information not directly dealing with the show that other people might find it useful and enjoyable, too.	2004-02-13
787382:US	52966385	REKMVRR5I6SAW	061366549X	65376829	A Three-Minute Speech: Lincoln's Remarks at Gettysburg: Lincoln's Remarks at Gettysburg	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Message Behind the Gettysburg Address.	This little book not only talks about Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, but gives some background behind it as well. The first part of the book deals with the Civil War and slavery. Some background is given about the Battle of Gettysburg. Then some information concerning the ceremony for the dedication of the cemetary and battlefield and how President Lincoln was invited. The book tries to debunk some myths concerning Lincoln and the Gettysburg Address (e.g. that Lincoln didn't spend any time thinking and writing about it). It concludes with a look at the impact that three-minute speech had.  I enjoyed reading this book and found it both fun and educational.  I had heard most of the story before, but it's nice to be reminded of it.  This is a good book for students in the 2nd-5th grades. It's fairly easy to read and gives a solid background and history about the Gettysburg Address.	2004-02-13
790014:US	52966385	R2F2E1FTIJOKW5	0140554610	511517364	The Man Who Kept His Heart in a Bucket (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Discovering Love	A young man named Jack keeps his heart in a bucket and carries it around with him. His heart was broken once and he doesn't want it to happen again. Jack seems unable to experience the real joys in life: the sweet taste of bread, a musical melody to dance to, and the soft touch of a baby's hand. Then one day a maiden steals Jack's heart. She tells him a riddle that he must answer before she will return his heart. This is a very touching story, illustrating that in order to truly love another person, we must first learn to love and enjoy life. The illustrations that accompany the text are beautiful and give the story a touch of rustic flavor. Children will probably enjoy this story, but it's really a fairy tale for grown-ups because they are the only ones who can fully appreciate all the nuances of the tale.	2004-02-11
794851:US	52966385	R1VCQXQKKGPV1J	0531301095	390768712	The Revelation of Saint Bruce	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Living What You Believe.	How is a person to live ethically and keep his or her morals in an unethical world?  What about \\"teenagers\\"? A lot of people say that they're going to do everything anyway so why try to stop them. Issues like these are what THE REVELATION OF SAINT BRUCE deals with.  Bruce Wells is for the most part an ordinary person struggling through adolescence. He gets nervous around girls he likes, he wants to be liked, and he's struggling to find his place in the world. However, Bruce is a little different from everyone else because he has a strong ethical and moral code which he not only believes in, but lives out in his daily life. He gets upset at his best friend, Jack, for taking quarters from a pay phone. Bruce doesn't lie. He doesn't cheat or steal. He lives the life that Christ called him to live. People notice and they start calling him \\"Saint Bruce\\".<br />Like most people with strong convictions, Bruce has a group of close friends: Jack, Carrie, Theresa, and Ellis. Ellis is the wild card of the bunch and there always is. Bruce thinks that the group has allowed them to be a part of their lives. What he doesn't realize is that the group is really following him and not vice versa. Bruce has a strong charisma and he doesn't even know it.  His friends start calling themselves the \\"Disciples of Saint Bruce\\".<br />Anyway, Bruce ends up home sick for a day and while he is gone his friends do some drinking in school.  Later they offer to tell him what they did. Bruce asks them not to, but they do anyway.  When confronted by a teacher about what he knows, Bruce tells the truth and his four friends end up suspended from school for the rest of the semester. For the next five months Bruce is constantly abused. People stop talking to him. They start pulling practical jokes on him. Some tougher students physically beat him occassionaly.  His own sister tells him he was wrong to tell the truth. Hardly any one seems to understand. The semester ends and another one begins and life becomes even more interesting for Bruce.<br />THE REVELATION OF SAINT BRUCE is a great book. It has a great story and raises some very important moral and ethical issues that are relevant not only to those in adolescence, but to adults as well. The book illustrates just how difficult it can be to actually live what you believe.  There are some who might say the book isn't very realistic and that a student like Bruce Wells would never exist. This isn't true because I was a student like Bruce Wells and I experienced some of the same things he did in this book. It's not always easy to live what you believe, but it is more than worthwhile.mes even more interesting for Bruce.<br />THE REVELATION OF SAINT BRUCE is a great book. It has a great story and raises some very important moral and ethical issues that are relevant not only to those in adolescence, but to adults as well. The book illustrates just how difficult it can be to actually live what you believe.  There are some who might say the book isn't very realistic and that a student like Bruce Wells would never exist. This isn't true because I was a student like Bruce Wells and I experienced some of the same things he did in this book. It's not always easy to live what you believe, but it is more than worthwhile.	2004-02-07
796716:US	52966385	R27X80SKG1O1VL	0439568315	332485378	Goosebumps #45: Ghost Camp	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Something Unnatural	Alex and his brother Harry travel to Camp Spirit Moon to spend part of their summer. Once they get there strange things start to happen. At first, the brothers are convinced that it's nothing more than some practical jokes to initiate them into camp life. However, the events get more strange and bizarre and Harry and Alex soon realize that Camp Spirit Moon is more horrifying than anything they could have imagined. This is one of the few Goosebumps books I read that had a truly scary ending. Be forewarned because this book can scare younger readers.	2004-02-06
797183:US	52966385	R1M5AIWWKRSIT5	0805008020	290428516	The Reluctant Dragon	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Wag the Dog.	This delightful story tells the tale of a boy who meets a kindly dragon on the edge of town. The boy and the dragon become friends and start spending a lot of time together. Then the people of the town find out about the dragon and send for St. George.  The boy meets with St. George and takes him to meet the dragon. All three soon become friends and find themselves in a quandry.  George doesn't want to kill the dragon and the dragon has no desire to kill George.  A plan is hatched and at the end of the story everyone lives happily.<br />It's really great reading this to younger children. It's got a great message about not prejudging others. It also shows how people can sometimes get everything they want, without anyone having to get hurt by it. That doesn't happen often, but it's nice to be reminded now and again that it can.	2004-02-05
798156:US	52966385	R1KX7N6RCNWRR4	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rooting For the Underdog.	Several pages into, SEABISCUIT, I absolutely fell in love with the book.  I learned so much about the history of racing, about Howard Shore, Tom Smith, George Woolf, and Red Pollard. Granted the book is a bit slow to read at first and the story splits back and forth between four different lives. However, everything comes together to tell the fascinating story of how Seabiscuit became the most loved horse in America.<br />I enjoyed the way the start of the book deals with the lives of four different creatures: one chapter is about Howard Shore, another Tom Smith, another Red Pollard, and another Seabiscuit. I found it fascinating how these four very different lives came together to form such a meaningful story. To me, it illustrates the ways that Providence works.<br />The book is also a piece of non-fiction, but the story almost reads like a novel. Descriptions of events are very detailed, vivid, and real. Looking over the sources at the end of the book, I do not doubt the research Ms. Hillenbrand put forth and find the tone to be a testament to her skills as a writer.<br />SEABISCUIT is a grand story about a grand horse.  There will be some who simply won't like the book, but you shouldn't let that keep you from reading it yourself. &quot;So long, Charley.&quot;	2004-02-05
805454:US	52966385	R3ESKHEIYLQHCH	0618391045	296270242	Gollum: A Behind the Scenes Guide of the Making of Gollum (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One Man's Tale.	GOLLUM is basically a memoir by Andy Serkis describing part of his journey on the odyssey that became THE LORD OF THE RINGS films.  Serkis has become a part of cinematic history with his acting of Gollum-the first major completely CGI character based upon the actions of a real actor.  The things that WETA and Serkis did with Gollum had been done in the past, but on a very much smaller scale and with very different techniques. The book is quite interesting and fairly easy to read. It's filled with pictures from the sets, letters from various cast and crew members, sketches, and diagrams. When reading the book, you don't feel like you're reading at all, but rather you're sitting down and listening to a man next to you tell a story. A great book for any LORD OF THE RINGS fan and a useful resource for cinematic gurus.	2004-01-30
806211:US	52966385	R1YNTLIDUBN5JV	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The Comic Book That Changed Comic Books	Most simply stated, WATCHMEN was the graphic novel that totally changed the comic book industry. The book is a deconstruction of comics. The book also forces a person to challenge the way they view life and the events that go on in the news. Besides all that, it's a great story, too. Still, with all that said, WATCHMEN isn't a great piece of literature (though it comes pretty close) there's just too many comic conventions involved in both the art and story. Whatever the case, if you're a fan of comics at all or have an interest in the history of pop culture, this is one of the graphic novels you should read.	2004-01-29
809801:US	52966385	R243RJYHFVUSGO	069109554X	541344664	The Eternal Darkness: A Personal History of Deep-Sea Exploration	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's Science for the People.	I had the privilege of listening to Dr. Ballard speak on some of his explorations. It was quite an honor because I remember when his team discovered the Titanic in 1985 and because of that discovery I have tried to keep up at least a popular know-how about science and technology. THE ETERNAL DARKNESS discusses some of the things Dr. Ballard spoke about when I heard him and some of the things I remember reading about when I was a kid.<br />The book is basically a very brief history of deep-sea exploration that is divided into three parts.  The first part deals with exploration up until the time of the submersible. There really isn't much about ancient exploration techniques because until the beginning of the 20th century, humankind really wasn't doing any deep-sea exploring. The book talks a lot about bathyscaphs and bathyspheres, things that I only vaguely remember from old Walt Disney cartoons.<br />The second part of the book explores the discoveries made using submersibles.  Ballard began his career near the beginning of the end of this age and it is in this section that he begins discussing many of his own personal voyages and discoveries, including those in the mountain ranges of the oceans.<br />The third part of the book talks about the events in deep-sea exploring from about the early 1980s on with robotic vehicles doing most of the really deep work. In this part of the book, Ballard discusses other discoveries he was involved with including the Titanic.<br />Personally, I found the book quite interesting.  Ballard does seem to take a lot of credit for various discoveries and events, but he was actually there for the discoveries of those things or at least was a member of the team. This book probably isn't something that an expert in science would want to read (too easy), but it's great for the average Joe. If only all science books were as easy to read as this one.	2004-01-27
813700:US	52966385	R38QZZTXIGXXSS	0440228441	442710231	I Know What You Did Last Summer	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Read the Book.	I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a story about a group of four high school students who are involved in a hit and run accident which ends up killing a young boy. Speeding down the road late at night after hours of partying, the group strikes a young boy on his bicycle. Instead of stopping to help, the group drives to the nearest phone and makes an anonymous phone call to the police to report the accident. The group makes a pact not to tell what happened. The event causes the breakdown of fellowship between the four friends and they go their separate ways. About a year later, one of the girls receives an anonymous note that reads \\"I Know What You Did Last Summer.\\" Horrified, she gets in touch with the other members of the pact and the chase is on. One thing leads to another and before they know it, they're trying to outsmart a killer.<br />If you've seen the movie, don't be expecting any graphic violence here or a man with a hook. Instead, this story revolves itself around lessons of honesty, revenge, and the dangers of living a lie. The characters are realistic and easy to relate to.  Girls will probably enjoy this book much more than guys because of the romantic elements involved, but it has enough who-dunnit to appeal to males, too.	2004-01-24
816829:US	52966385	R1VMXULR757EZ6	0822205467	530266399	I Hate Hamlet.	Books	5	15	15	N	N	To Be or Not To Be.	This charming little comedy tells the tale of a famous Hollywood television star, Andrew Rally, who has recently purchased an apartment in New York where John Barrymore used to live.  Andrew has just come off a highly lucrative and successful television series and is coming to New York perform in Hamlet to beef up his resume and respect in the acting community.  The only problem is that he hates Hamlet. Well, the ghost of Barrymore still haunts his old apartment and is compelled to show Andrew the error of his ways.  The play is entertaining and is a great joy to watch, especially for anyone who has ever been involved in theatre or show business. My favorite character is Gary, the producer friend from California: it's a great secondary role. A good show that works especially well for small, established community theatres.	2004-01-21
819318:US	52966385	RMCLV2MGM1M0P	1562470752	903927792	Meet Addy: An American Girl (The American Girls Collection Book 1)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	History Come To Life.	My sister has the entire AMERICAN GIRLS collection of books, but I never gave much thought about them until recently when I was at home. I'm in an multi-cultural education class and figured it might be beneficial to read at least one of these books in this very popular series.<br />I chose MEET ADDY and was quite surprised by what I read. The story was engaging, full of vivid imagery, and historically accurate. Addy is a young slave girl living on a plantation near the end of the Civil War. Lincoln has already issued the Emancipation Proclamation, but Addy and her father, mother, brother, and sister are slaves living in the South. Their owner is not a very cruel Master and cares for his slaves much better than many other slave-owners.  However, the war is costly and he sells some of his slaves in an effort to raise enough money to keep the plantation open.  The two slaves he sells are Addy's father and her brother, Sam. After they are sold together, Addy's mother makes plans for her and Addy to escape before more tragedy strikes their family.  They leave Addy's baby sister behind with Auntie Lula and Uncle Solomon, an elderly couple who work in the plantation house, and flee in the night headed towards a safe house where an elderly woman named Miss Caroline lives. Miss Caroline will take them to their freedom.<br />The last few pages of this book contain some historical information about slavery and what life would have been like for a girl like Addy.  The information is interesting and adds a historical context to a very engaging story.<br />Overall, I found this book to be quite interesting and a very enjoyable and informative read. I highly recommend it to young girls and to boys who don't mind reading about girls.	2004-01-20
823445:US	52966385	R28QZXRKQQS9US	0590907174	940354549	The Van Gogh Cafe (Apple Signature Edition)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	More Than Just Cookies and Cream.	THE VAN GOGH CAFE is a selection of stories about a \\"magical\\" cafe in a particular town in Kansas. The cafe is run by a man named Marc and his daughter. The cafe used to be an old moviehouse/vaudeville theatre and some of the performing magic is still around. Strange and uplifting events happen at the cafe. Some would call them bizarre, some just mere coincidence, others perhaps Providence. The book pretty much lets the reader decide. Whatever the case, one will go away feeling kind of warm and fuzzy and uplifted about life.  I usually don't recommend books that are totally warm and fuzzy, but this is a book that I'll make an exception.	2004-01-16
825386:US	52966385	R2FEBB2HN7QYGJ	1585671983	126783411	Their First Time in the Movies (With DVD & VHS)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Stars on the Screen.	THEIR FIRST TIME IN THE MOVIES takes a look at movie stars from 1900-mid 1980s and examines the first time they acted in the movies. Stars discussed include Charlie Chaplin, Mary Pickford, Gary Cooper, Greta Garbo, Fred Astaire, Cary Grant, Dustin Hoffman, Marilyn Monroe, Sophia Loren, Jack Lemmon, Robert DeNiro, and John Travolta among many others. Most of the actors in the book have one page devoted to their lives and their first time in the movies. The book is a solid hard-cover book and includes some interesting pieces of cinematic trivia.<br />This book also includes a video and DVD. The video and DVD contain somewhat different material than the book, but the two forms of media themselves are identical in content. Basically, the video/DVD is a documentary of several famous stars from the 1900s-the late 1970s. It briefly discusses each star and shows clips from their first motion pictures.<br />This is a great gift for any average movie fan. Granted much of the material can be found in other sources, but this set brings a lot of that stuff together fairly nicely.	2004-01-15
826435:US	52966385	R3RN0QPZGOGG0P	0064409597	864257528	Love That Dog	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bring Poetry To Life.	Most simply stated, LOVE THAT DOG is a book about poetry and a boy's love for his pet dog. However, it is more than that. The book uses poetry to tell the story of how one student grew to appreciate and love poetry through the helpful encouragement and advice of a dedicated teacher. The story is told completely through the perspective of the student, Jack, and is written in the poetic stanzas that he writes (almost always unbeknowingly).  I really enjoyed reading this book and find it's is a great book to use to help get students interested in poetry.	2004-01-14
828319:US	52966385	R2R1LANDGMROX9	0849943590	470904626	Mind Siege: The Battle for the Truth	Books	3	2	2	N	N	News To Those Who Should Know Better	I am first and foremost a Christian. I am also an educated adult who has worked in the field of education. I have a variety of experience in the arts and have attempted to keep current on news and world affairs. Therefore, I really wasn't all that impressed by MIND SIEGE. The author's main point of the book is to illustrate to Christians how secular humanists are taking over the world. Now, some may find that assertion farfetched. However, it really isn't and I agree with it.<br /><br />The problem I had with MIND SIEGE wasn't the message (it's not intended for the unconverted). The problem with MIND SIEGE is that Tim LaHaye's writing really isn't that great and he uses a bunch of sources that are basically the same source. Therefore, though the book has a good message it's tangled up in bad writing and bad research. Had LaHaye done a better job at writing and researching the book, it would have been much better. Still it's a decent book to read for any Christian who really doesn't have a clue what's going on in the world and who might be wondering how they can influence the culture. For anyone who is at least half-way knowledgeable I recommend reading ROARING LAMBS by Bill Briner or HOW SHOULD WE THEN LIVE by Francis Schafer.	2004-01-13
861941:US	52966385	R15UQKEJCTW492	0811818071	198361742	Olive, the Other Reindeer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Little Ones Can Do Big Things Too.	This charming Christmas tale tells the story of Olive the dog. Olive seems to enjoy Christmas just as much as anyone else. However, after listening to the refrain in \\"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\\" over and over again (ALL OF the other reindeer), Olive becomes convinced that it's about her and sets forth to report to Santa for duty at the North Pole. Neither Santa nor the reindeer really know what to make of this strange little dog, but they agree to let her come along. They tie her tightly to one of the reindeer and off they go.  Along the way, Santa and his crew find themselves in all sorts of situations and because of Olive, the problems aren't as problematic as they could be.<br />This is a charming little Christmas story. The illustrations are quite unique, reminding one of cutout pictures glued to a page.  Kids love this story and it has a nice message about how even when someone or something seems insignificant, they can be of great importance. This story is rapidly becoming a Christmas favorite and it's a joy to read to any child.  Look for the illustrations of people and animals inside things: rabbits sleeping in their hole, children sleeping in bed, etc. Merry Christmas.	2003-12-17
861976:US	52966385	R140TSGYQJE2LG	0822219026	220245152	The Guys - Acting Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Days After.	THE GUYS is a two-character play based upon real life experiences.  The characters of the play are Joan and Nick.  Joan is a writer who is asked by Nick, a fire chief, to write eulogies for the men at his fire house who died on September 11th.  Nick wants to honor his friends and comrades, but doesn't know how.  He seeks Joan to write down on paper what he knows from memory and remembers from his heart.<br /><br />THE GUYS is a short play, ninety minutes when performed, varying from monologues by Joan to scenes where she is discussing with Nick the men who died that day.  The play is moving and seems to capture much of the spirit of our nation during that time. The rememberances of each of \\"the guys\\" are vivid and though are based on sketches of many real life fireman, their lives are representative of any number of Americans. The play truly is an honor to them because it illustrates what a hero really is, just an ordinary person who arises to the occassion during extraordinary times.<br /><br />The play is extremely well-written and simple. The character of Joan appears to be mostly based upon the author herself, though there are probably some differences.  Overall, a beautiful piece of dramatic art. Other than that, it's a wonderful play.	2003-12-17
868526:US	52966385	R2OKRT5ZDXF5N2	0618411194	841311332	Those Who Can Teach, Custom Publication	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Introduction to Education Book.	We used the 10th edition, hardback, with CD-ROM version of this textbook in my introduction to education class. Usually at the end of a semester, I sell my textbooks to help pay for the books I have to buy the next semester. I didn't sell this book. It is too valuable of an asset. The book is a great text for any student thinking about entering an education program. It's divided into fifteen chapters with topics ranging from teachers and teachnology to how schools are financed to social problems affecting students to the history of American education. The book is well written and researched and is full of useful tips and advice. I learned a great deal by reading through this book and highly recommend it for any student pursuing a career in education. The CD-Rom that came with the text is full of many more pictures, articles, charts, graphs, and links and makes a great supplement to the book itself.	2003-12-11
874144:US	52966385	R130PRMF7TY0NE	0609607057	515773401	The Empress's New Lingerie: Bedtime Stories for Grownups	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Terrible Writing	THE EMPRESS'S NEW LINGERIE is basically nothing more than soft-core pornography trying to pass itself off as erotic literature. The stories are basically either perverted or updated versions of favorite fairy tales, but with a sexual twist. Most of the stories are also told from a female point of view. In this collection, Snow White becomes a gang-banging whore as she services all seven of the dwarfs at one time; Jack from the tale about the beanstalk is instead a female and finds that the magic beans raise a giant instead of a plant; Cinderella's Prince Charming has a foot fetish; the miller's daughter in Rumplestiltskin has a thing for bondage; etcetera. Most of the writing is poor, reading more like a PEOPLE or COSMO magazine than anything else and when the stories could turn interesting, the writing stoops to the level of soft-core pornography. I don't recommend anyone reading this book, let alone buying it.	2003-12-07
874337:US	52966385	RHK15UM7FAFIJ	0192833596	365726027	Great Expectations (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Things Aren't Always What They Appear To Be.	GREAT EXPECTATIONS is often the novel used in high schools to introduce students to Dickens. Due to it's length and fairly long and uneventful middle phase, I'm not sure it's the best text to introduce people to Dickens. Still, it is a pretty good story and contains some of the most memorable characters in Dickens' fiction.<br />GREAT EXPECTATIONS is the story of Phillip Pirrip, otherwise known as Pip. Pip's parents die not long after he is born and he is raised &quot;by hand&quot; by his sister. His brother-in-law, Joe Gargery, is the town blacksmith and loves Pip. The two are best-of-friends. One night while looking at his parents' graves, Pip meets a convict and his life is forever changed by that meeting. As the novel progresses, Pip meets Miss Havisham (the wealthiest woman in town) and her beautiful ward, Estella.  Pip immediately falls in love with Estella and is haunted by her all the days of his life. Eventually Pip is bond to Joe as his apprentice and sets to work in the blacksmith forge. Several years later, Pip's luck changes when he is informed by a lawyer from London, Mr. Jaggers, that he has become the recipient of &quot;great expectations&quot;. The book then follows Pip's life as he enters this new stage in life and as he develops and becomes a &quot;gentleman&quot;. Everything is brought full circle and just about everyone gets what they deserve by the time the novel ends.<br />GREAT EXPECTATIONS isn't the easiest of books to read. What many writers can do in a sentence often takes Dickens two pages to tell. Also, the book is divided into three phases and the second phase is rather boring (except at the end) and really does nothing more than to fill in a few plot gaps and illustrate to us how much of a prig Pip becomes. Nevertheless, GREAT EXPECTATIONS is still a good story containing some very vivid characters: Pip, Estella, Joe, Miss Havisham, Magwitch, Jaggers, and Wemmick. The characters in GREAT EXPECTATIONS are as memorable as anyone in DAVID COPPERFIELD, OLIVER TWIST, or A CHRISTMAS CAROL.  The first phase of the book is quite interesting and sets up everything that later occurs in the novel. The third part of the novel is full of excitement and contains Pip's repentance and reformation. Overall, it's a great book and even though it was written over a hundred years ago, it has a lot to say about the society in which we live today.COPPERFIELD, OLIVER TWIST, or A CHRISTMAS CAROL.  The first phase of the book is quite interesting and sets up everything that later occurs in the novel. The third part of the novel is full of excitement and contains Pip's repentance and reformation. Overall, it's a great book and even though it was written over a hundred years ago, it has a lot to say about the society in which we live today.	2003-12-07
874379:US	52966385	R18SZGY3KVHXDY	0873678133	289475827	Saturday School: How One Town Kept Out "the Jewish," 1902-1932	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Truth Is Out There	SATURDAY SCHOOL explores the reasons why the Decatur, Georgia school districts had a Tuesday-Saturday school week, instead of the usual Monday-Friday school week, from 1902 to 1932. Through research, largely based on oral interviews, the author claims that the reason that the Decatur school district had such a policy was to keep Jewish people from moving into the area. The issue the book raises is really interesting, fairly intriguing, and somewhat provocative. However, the book is only 60 pages long (including the bibliography and &#34;about the author&#34; page) and in it's brevity, actually raises more questions than answers. The reason that the Decatur district formed such a policy is clearly evident. This raises questions such as &#34;why did such a policy come into effect&#34; and &#34;how did the board originally decide upon such a policy&#34; which the book never clearly answers. Overall, SATURDAY SCHOOL is an interesting book that is easy to read.	2003-12-07
877451:US	52966385	R2PCVM8FJRVGQS	043944246X	204761907	September 12th: We Knew Everything Would Be All Right	Books	5	1	1	N	N	And a Child Shall Lead Them	SEPTEMBER 12TH was written and illustrated by children in a first-grade class. The book is filled with hope and displays that even though none of us will ever be the same since September 11th, we did and will press forward to continue living our lives, perhaps cherishing what we did not consider valuable before. The book is very poignant and some find it amazing that it was written by a class of first-graders. I don't find that so amazing as I do that these young children seem to be more at peace with the world and all that went on than most adults do. I find it hard to believe that the kids who wrote this book are afraid to fly in planes or travel overseas because of what happened on September 11th. I think this book illustrates that the future of our country will be in good hands. I highly recommend this book not only to children, but to anyone who still faces anxiety as a result of September 11th. Read this book, take comfort, and let yourself be led to peace by a child.	2003-12-04
877610:US	52966385	R1CCGQ99X7RSS1	0967912148	606130727	The Structure of English for Readers, Writers, and Teachers	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Nice Support.	THE STRUCTURE OF ENGLISH FOR READERS, WRITERS, AND TEACHERS is a textbook that we used in my grammatical ananlysis class. The book is written in a style that is very informal and general, which is much different than many other textbooks, especially those relating to linguistics and grammar.  Nevertheless, the book does lack a great deal of substance and therefore doesn't work well on it's own.  On the other hand, the book contains a great many helpful exercises prinkled throughout each chapter instead of just at the end of the chapter.  The book also does a really good job of explaining and illustrating the auxiliary class that has developed in the English language.  With that said, though THE STRUCTURE OF ENGLISH FOR READERS, WRITERS, AND TEACHERS doesn't stand on it's own very well, it makes a very useful supplementary book to other grammatical textbooks.	2003-12-04
894265:US	52966385	R1JGUV7NA2YM7Y	0060278676	409401421	If You Take a Mouse to the Movies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not About the Movies	I picked this book up because I thought it was going to be a story about watching movies with a mouse. However, it's not. Instead it's about what happens when a young boy takes a mouse to the movies and how he gets sidetracked on the way home into doing all sorts of things assorted with Christmas: from getting a Christmas tree, to building a snowman, to building a snow fort. The illustrations are quite nice and children love hearing this story read over and over. Even though, I used to teach at a preschool, I didn't know this book was written by the same lady who wrote IF YOU GIVE A MOOSE A MUFFIN. That book is much more interesting and the zany connections made are more humorous for all ages. Nevertheless, IF YOU TAKE A MOUSE TO THE MOVIES is a decent book and makes for some fun holiday reading with youngsters--read the book, then do some of the activities described together.	2003-11-20
895729:US	52966385	R2UW28EACQ3SU1	0439186110	438557260	Super-Science Readers: Amazing Animals: Colorful and Engaging Books on Favorite Thematic Topics for Guided Independent Reading	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nature is Wierd.	This book is quite small, but filled with interesting tidbits about all kinds of different animals.  The book is divided into two page sections that talk about different parts of the body: ears, noses, eyes, tongues, teeth, feet, and body covers.  Each section has a paragraph and a picture for each animal in the section.  A couple things I learned from this book are that a jack rabbits' ears are so big because they help keep the rabbit cool by letting heat escape and a mole has feelers on it's nose!This book is great for 1st and 2nd grade readers, but younger children will enjoy listening and looking too.	2003-11-19
896827:US	52966385	RV1TSV5VF90WJ	1559718315	770617138	Penguins ABC	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A-is for Antartica.	This delightful book is filled with pictures of penguins. Not only that, but it uses the pictures to help teach children the alphabet with Penguin names and words associated with the life of a Penguin.  For instance, E is for Emperor and F is for Family. The last two pages of the book contain descriptions of what each word means and how it relates to a penguin's life.  The pictures are vivid and full of wonder.  I picked this book up because I love penguins and would recommend it to any penguin lover.  However, I also highly recommend it as a good alphabet book for younger children.	2003-11-18
896951:US	52966385	R2ISTO8PR35FJN	0767915054	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	From one small town to another.	A GIRL NAMED ZIPPY is not a typical memoir. It doesn't tell the story about the famous people someone met or how the author got her big break or blame her parents for the horrible life she has.  Instead, the book tells some stories about a young girl, nicknamed Zippy, growing up in a very small town in northern Indiana a generation ago.<br />I very much enjoyed reading this book. The style is somewhat awkward and unusual. However, once you adjust, the style makes sense and seems to fit the pecularities of Zippy.<br />This book will not appeal to everyone. There are some events described relating to animal abuse that some will find offensive.  If you can't kill a bug, don't read this book.  Also, the book describes life growing up in a very small town in northern Indiana. I enjoyed the book a lot because many of the people in the story reminded me of people in my own hometown. Sure there are a lot of crazy and zany events that occur, but believe it or not, that's what happens in small towns. People do all sorts of wierd things for amusement, especially in the days before televisions and computers. I've listened many times to the stories that my Dad and my uncle have told about growing up and the stories in A GIRL NAMED ZIPPY are almost dull in comparison.<br />If you're able to put aside any prejudices you might have about small towns and if you aren't offended by descriptions of animal cruelty, then you will probably enjoy A GIRL NAMED ZIPPY.	2003-11-18
897278:US	52966385	R1UCA9VYFO0MEJ	1556111894	965320267	The Wonderful O	Books	5	5	6	N	N	N_  _h!  What are we t_ d_?	...THE WONDERFUL O is a charming book. It's full of wit, wisdom, and social commentary. It's a great story and plays around with the English language in a most interesting way. This is a book that appeals to both adults and children and would also work well as a text in an upper elementary English class. It's a great book. Oh, yeah. Has anyone seen BRAVEHEART? There's a connection between the two.	2003-11-17
901969:US	52966385	R2CQHMIA8I6MYO	0830822577	716207664	A Long Obedience in the Same Direction: Discipleship in an Instant Society	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Labor of Love, But Not Scholarship	From the title, A LONG OBEDIENCE IN THE SAME DIRECTION would seem to be a book full of deep spiritual insight for the committed Christian. However, that's not really the case. A LONG OBEDIENCE IN THE SAME DIRECTION is an examination of a collection of Psalms in the Bible that are known as the Songs of the Ascent. After having the book recommended to me, I thought it would delve deep into the meaning of discipleship and perhaps provide insight on my Christian walk. The book provided neither. I believe there are two reasons for this.<br /><br />1. Eugene Peterson uses his own translation of the Bible (which later became THE MESSAGE) as the scriptural references for the entire book. Now, I don't deny that it took Peterson a very long time to write The Message. However, The Message is really more akin to a paraphrase of the Bible and than an actual translation. In seeking to put the Bible in a dialect of post-modern American English, I find that much of the history, poetry, and sustenance of the original texts is forsaken. Therefore, much of the original meaning of the psalms examined is lost and the reader has to trust Peterson's interpretation without any way of gauging his translation against other, traditionally more reliable translations.<br /><br />2. The book could have been a great piece of scholarship and reference (like Chamber's MY UTMOST FOR HIS HIGHEST), but it fails to actually dive deep into the text and remains more like a summary of scripture, sprinkled with a few historical facts. Had Peterson fully explored the text (and perhaps the reason he didn't is because he was relying upon his own paraphrase), the book could have been much more meaningful than it is.<br /><br />Overall, this is a book that I would recommend for Christians that haven't been walking with Christ for long. It does not work as a piece of scholarship, but does work rather quite well as a monthly devotional.	2003-11-13
902399:US	52966385	R1XPILZA5OD05P	0736421254	194528799	Don't Invite a Shark to Dinner (Finding Nemo Stepping Stone)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dad's Lessons	Nemo's Dad, Carl, is the star of this book. Basically, it's a quick overview of the adventures he went on while looking for Nemo. Sprinkled throughout the text are various facts about sea life and sea creatures. The book has lots of black and white illustrations and contains some practical advice for real life as well. I bought this book because I'm a huge fan of FINDING NEMO (the best movie of 2003!) and would recommend it to any other Nemo fan. The recommended reading level is probably 3rd-5th grade.	2003-11-13
902551:US	52966385	R1DUK6DF2SYTU7	0736902805	483935538	Single Men Are Like WafflesSingle Women Are Like Spaghetti: Friendship, Romance, and Relationships That Work	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Great Book About Relationships.	As a single guy trying to understand the female mentality and in an attempt to make myself a more understanding potential partner, I've read a lot of books on relationships over the years.  Most are subpar and contain very little insight. During the past few years, the majority of books on relationships have tried to capitalize on the fame of MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN FROM VENUS.  Besides certain political crusades and a few other uncatergorized variables, that book has done more to damage relationships than any other book published in the U.S. in the past decade.<br />SINGLE MEN ARE LIKE WAFFLES, SINGLE WOMEN ARE LIKE SPAGHETTI parodies the title of that famous book, but it isn't anything like it.  This book actually contains practical advice that people can use and makes sense. It's great for single people interested in being in a relationship and for those who are already together and considering pursuing marriage. Bill and Pam Farrel are a husband and wife team and their combined insights make this book that much more valuable. The book is written in a logic, homey sort of way without any technical mumble-jumble characteristic of other relationship books.<br />The book also has some great lists that are both hilarious and insightful. In fact, it was the lists that made me buy the book while flipping through the pages at a Christian book store.<br />I had first heard this book recommended by the speaker of a Christian camp I worked at. He gave it his highest approval and recommended all the summer staff read it. I did and am glad to say, he was right. It is one of the best books on relationships I have ever read, especially with a Christian perspective. I highly recommend it, too.	2003-11-13
903068:US	52966385	R7SDF3RJQKELZ	0451524357	907195620	Complete Fairy Tales of Oscar Wilde	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not all Fairy Tales Have a Happy Ending.	The nature of a fairy tale isn't that they end happy; it's that they end comically, rather than tragically. Oscar Wilde knew this and that is one of the reasons that his fairy tales are so memorable.  He wrote &quot;The Happy Prince and Other Tales&quot; prior to THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY and &quot;The House of Pomegranates&quot; just after the novel and the development of his skill as a writer can be seen in the two different collections.  The stories deal with love, art, faith, and loss. They explore what it means to truly live and whether or not faith and aestheticism can coincide. They are also full of biting social commentary and insight. The first part of this book includes &quot;The Happy Prince&quot;, &quot;The Nightingale and the Rose&quot;, &quot;The Selfish Giant&quot;, &quot;The Devoted Friend&quot;, and &quot;The Remarkable Rocket&quot;.  &quot;The House of Pomegranates&quot; is the second collection in this book and includes the stories: &quot;The Young King&quot;, &quot;The Birthday of the Infanta&quot;, &quot;The Fisherman and His Soul&quot;, and &quot;The Star-Child&quot;.  The illustrations that accompany the stories are beautiful, but because of the inexpensive way in which this collection is published, the pictures are very hard to make out. The book also has an insightful afterword by Jack Zipes which I found rather informative. My favorite stories in the collection were &quot;The Happy Prince&quot;, &quot;The Selfish Giant&quot;, &quot;The Young King&quot;, and &quot;The Star-Child&quot;.  I loved reading these stories and highly recommend them.	2003-11-13
903134:US	52966385	R22RF5HJ1S6I6G	0340739843	756570846	Little Blue In A Mess (My First Read Alones)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keeping Clean.	Little Blue is a young penguin who can't seem to keep himself clean.  His mother scrubs him down and reminds him that his Aunt Pen is coming to visit for dinner so he needs to do his best to stay clean.  Poor little blue tries, but can't sit still for long.  He ends up swimming away from sharks, rolling in the dirt with kangaroos, and hiding in a swamp from some bullies. His mother will be very upset.  But then it rains and Little Blue is all clean and ready to visit with his mother and aunt.<br />I picked this story up because I love penguins. It's just an entertaining story that young elementary students may want to read. It's part of a set in the Little Blue series.	2003-11-13
909487:US	52966385	R1WE6RA4D8PIJ	0205200257	170846752	English Grammar: Prescriptive, Descriptive, Generative, Performance	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Grammar!	I used this textbook in the grammar analysis class I had to have on my journey towards teaching certification. The book explores the four approaches to English grammar: Prescriptivism, Descriptivism, Generativism, and Performance.  Most grammar taught in public schools is prescriptivist, even though most of us speak and write in a descriptivist way.  Generativism and performance explore the way the brain basically spits out sentences. Generativism and performance are also more linguistical in approach, owing a great deal to Noam Chomsky.<br />I found this book to be quite useful. It is informative, fairly easy to understand, and contains many valuable exercises. It's a great textbook to have for studying grammar and can be useful when studying linguistics.	2003-11-07
912151:US	52966385	REH4HTSTSCO22	0399239537	176310268	FIREBOAT: The Heroic Adventures of the John J. Harvey (Boston Globe-Horn Book Awards (Awards))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Something Old Is Something New	FIREBOAT tells the story of the John J. Harvey. In its hey-day, the John J. Harvey was one of the finest fireboats in New York City, patrolling the piers and helping to save lives. However, society changed and the piers were destroyed and New York didn't have much use for many fireboats. Eventually, the boat was retired and was going to be turned into scrap. However, some people were interested in saving the John J. Harvey and bought the old ship. They restored her to pristine condition and she became a proud site for people to look at. No one thought she would ever fight another fire. Then came September 11th, 2001. Fires were raging and many water lines were broken. A call came asking for the John J. Harvey to help and help she did. For four days the little fireboat fought fires along with two newer, larger fireboats. When all was said and done, everyone was thankful for the John J. Harvey. She was given an award and would no longer have to worry about ever being turned into scrap.<br /><br />The illustrations that accompany the text are quite colorful and playful, adding to the story the book tells.<br /><br />Even though the story is mainly about the life of the John J. Harvey, it is also about September 11th. This book is directed towards young children, some who maybe too young to even remember the events of that day. For those that still do, the book deals with the tragedy in a very sensitive way. In time, I can see the book being used widely to help introduce children to something that, though still so close to our hearts and lives, will one day be remembered as a tragic day in history. The book also has some subtle lessons, such as respect for the elderly and how even the most seemingly insignificant things in this world can be worthwhile.<br /><br />Overall, FIREBOAT is a great children's book that deals with some very deep issues in a sensitive way.	2003-11-05
912402:US	52966385	R2BIP0EP938P7P	B0000C8WF8	250045191	Tomatoes from Mars	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Attack of the Tomatoes.	While reading TOMATOES FROM MARS, I couldn't but help be reminded of the cult movie ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES. In some ways, this story is a G-rated version of that movie, but there are several differences.  Instead of Killer Tomatoes, these Tomatoes from Mars are only interested in dying everything red with their alien juice. That's what they did with Mars and that's what they want to do with Earth. When most other plans fail, the President calls upon a famed scientist, who was ridiculed at the beginning of the story, to form a plan to rid the Earth of the menacing fruits. His first plan fails, but then he is inspired by his niece with a second plan which seems to save the day.<br />The illustrations in the story are quite vivid and somewhat lifelike. Kids like this book for the story, but adults will enjoy it for the illustrations.  For example, the scientist in the story resembles Albert Einstein and his foxy niece looks like a swimsuit model. A delightful book and for less than seven dollars, it is a bargain.	2003-11-05
912844:US	52966385	R2J8V7HG84UJ7T	0448434008	443509324	We Look (Dick and Jane)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Classics Are Back.	Millions of Americans grew up learning to read with help from the Dick and Jane stories. The stories were the standard reading texts in first grade for several generations. Then in the mid-1980s the education elite didn't think the stories were very good anymore: they weren't multi-cultural and didn't reflect America. So, most of those texts are gone now. Though the stories are dated, they had become part of our cultural heritage, and it was bitter-sweet to see them go.<br />However, many of the stories have now been released in a serial form of chapter books. Not all are in the series, but many are. Parents can now help their children learn to read using the same stories they learned to read with.<br />WE LOOK is the Dick and Jane story I remember the best because of that one great big word, LOOK. Besides helping children read, the books also serve as a historical guide in illustrating how society has changed since they were first published (the clothes, cars, toys, etc.).  The books are worth looking at if for no other reason than that.	2003-11-05
918584:US	52966385	R10XI57RK1Y3HJ	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	3	2334	2833	N	N	Turning the House of God into a Den of Thieves?	I try to keep abreast of things going on in the world. Sometimes things come along that are total fads: here one day, then gone and forgotten the next. It's sad to say, but as a Christian I have to admit that there are also fads in the contemporary American part of the Church. THE PURPOSE DRIVEN LIFE is one of these.<br /><br />I had never heard of THE PURPOSE DRIVEN LIFE until a couple of local churches started doing the 40-Days of Purpose campaign. About the same time, a friend of mine mentioned this book as the next \\"big fad in the Church\\", and asked me if I got a chance, to read it. He believed I would agree with him and I do.<br /><br />As a whole, there isn't really anything wrong with the book.  Suspicious as his intentions might be, I'll give Rick Warren the credit and believe he primarily wrote this book to help Christians in their walk with Jesus. I believe that this book could be useful to a new Christian or someone who is possibly thinking about converting to Christianity.  I also don't wish to discredit all those who have been helped in their life because of this book.  The book is written in a very simple style that a third or fourth-grader shouldn't have a problem reading it. Warren supports much of what he says with Scripture and the book is filled with Biblical references.<br /><br />However, the book is filled with severals flaws.<br /><br />1.  Warren says he purposely uses many different translations and paraphrases of the Bible to illustrate how relevant Scripture is to our day to day lives.  However, Warren tends to rely on paraphrases more than actual translations of the Bible. This is a dangerous thing. Yes, the Bible was written in such a way that the \\"common man\\" could understand it's meaning.  That's why paraphrases are so dangerous; they can change the entire meaning of a scriptural passage.<br /><br />2.  There is hardly any reference to the Holy Spirit. I am not a member of a charismatic church, but in many denominations across the country discussion of the Holy Spirit is totally ignored. Like it or not, the Holy Spirit is the seal that differentiates Christians from non-Christians. The Holy Spirit is an essential part of the Trinity and to deny it, by ignoring it, is dangerous.<br /><br />3.  Though Warren uses a lot of Biblical references, there are several times that he says \\"The Bible says\\" (or something similar) without actually quoting any passages from the Bible. I found this to be puzzling in a book that contains so much scriptural support.<br /><br />4.  Warren tends to overgeneralize things. He uses words such as \\"all\\", \\"every\\", \\"everyone\\", etc. quite often. This was one of the more disturbing elements of the book to me. When I first started reading the book, I had considered purchasing it and giving it to my mother for a gift. However, about halfway through the text, I began to seriously disagree with some of what Warren was writing. The impression that the text leaves one with is that if you don't do things the way the book tells you to, then you're not a good Christian and there is probably something wrong with you. Many of the book's suggestions aren't Biblical, just suggestions that Warren feels may help people out. But the impressions those suggestions leaves is not necessarily a positive one. Therefore, I am not giving this book to my mother.<br /><br />5.  The other major problem I had with the book is that it is largely a piece of advertising. In various chapters (especially at the beginning), Warren discusses a point and says something like, \\"if you want more help with that topic, see my other book\\" or \\"see the resources of mine listed at the back\\" which you can purchase. It seemed like every other chapter contained at least one plug for one of Warren's resources which can be purchased. I have nothing against writers plugging their wares.  I have nothing against Christian writers writing for money. I do have a problem with people using a tool that is supposed to be for evangelism but also use it as a way to advertise so that they can sell more products and make more money. Though this may not be the original intent of the author, the self-promotion throughout the book leaves a reader pondering Warren's true intentions.<br /><br />As I mentioned earlier, the book as a whole isn't all that bad despite the flaws. I can't rate this book lower than a three because I know that despite the flaws, there is a lot of material in the book that can be helpful to a lot of people.ore products and make more money. Though this may not be the original intent of the author, the self-promotion throughout the book leaves a reader pondering Warren's true intentions.    As I mentioned earlier, the book as a whole isn't all that bad despite the flaws. I can't rate this book lower than a three because I know that despite the flaws, there is a lot of material in the book that can be helpful to a lot of people.	2003-10-31
918812:US	52966385	R3D1X271V5ZULL	0830819290	999464694	Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law & Education	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The Debate Continues.	REASON IN THE BALANCE is one of Phillip Johnson's follow up works to his book DARWIN ON TRIAL.  REASON originated in the discussions and debates that Johnson partook while promoting DARWIN ON TRIAL and some of his experiences in the evolution versus creative design debate.<br />The book illustrates the far reaching affects of naturalism in everything from education to the law. Naturalists place their trust in reason, yet, as Johnson also points out they often arrive at conclusions and take place in discussions in a very unreasonable manner. The book examines how naturalism has eroded away the ethical and moral foundation on which much of our society was based and how decisions based upon a naturalistic world view are often far from reasonable and very unlogical.<br />The book is not light reading and mixes terms from law, philosophy, and science. A person who hasn't had much reading experience may find the book difficult to get through. However, if one reads the book with and open mind and heart, it is worth the while.	2003-10-31
919341:US	52966385	RPG4NYOWZ23IS	0140390693	592774530	Little Women (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An American Classic	I have been wanting to read LITTLE WOMEN since I was in BYE BYE BIRDIE in high school because of an allusion made to the book by Rosie Alvarez and Albert Peterson. However, like many books I wish to read, I never got around to it until recently when I was required to read it for an adolescent literature class.<br />LITTLE WOMEN was the book that brought Louisa May Alcott fame, fortune, and freedom. It has become an American literary classic and is probably more popular today than when it was first published. The story explores the lives of the four March sisters and the trials and tribulations they go through while growing up during the mid 1800's in the New England. The book is somewhat long, but easy to read. It contains many ethical and moral lessons. The book primary appeals to girls and women, but men can enjoy and learn from the book, too. The Penquin Classic edition of the text includes a rather dry introduction by Elaine Showalter.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading LITTLE WOMEN. It has all sorts of great messages about faith, love, and life. It's a great book and I now know why it is Albert Peterson's favorite novel.	2003-10-31
928861:US	52966385	R20H0IQLF34K0S	0790104776	691417918	The Spider and the King: Set A Stage Seven (Literacy Links Picture Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The King of Scotland.	This short book tells about an unconfirmed legend of history. Robert the Bruce has united the Scotts against the English but has been beaten six different times. The armies scatter and The Bruce takes shelter in a cave. Bone-weary and left with little hope, Robert the Bruce considers surrendering. However, a little spider catches his eye.  The spider is attempting to weave its web, but is struggling. Six times the spider attempts to swing from one end of the cave to the other and fails. Robert the Bruce tells the spider to give up, but then the spider tries a seventh time and succeeds. This brings hope to the weary king that he, too will be successful. He leaves the cave and gathers the clans again. Sometime later, the Scotts meet the English on the field of Bannockburn and though they are severely outnumbered, the Scottish beat the English and Scotland is free.<br />This is a great little story and the illustrations that accompany it have an impressionist feel to them. Great book to read to children familiar with William Wallace and also is a good book introducing them to Scottish history.	2003-10-23
929353:US	52966385	RSZ32FV3LZWYP	0808525107	299852122	Moja Means One: Swahili Counting Book (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Counting to Ten in a Different Language	MOJA MEANS ONE not only teaches people how to count to ten in Swahili, but it also is filled with information about East African culture. The illustrations are pleasing to the eye and add to the effect of the counting. For example, on the pages for tano (five) there is a brief description of the animals found in Africa and there are five animals in the picture. This is a good book to read not only to children, but is also good for anyone who is interested in learning about foreign languages and cultures.	2003-10-23
931467:US	52966385	R30V14M59941BP	0689852894	627319017	The Spider and the Fly	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Silent Movies and Creepy Villians.	Even though this book is being marketed towards young children, it is probably older children and adults who will find this book the most interesting. What makes this book so unique and such a wonderful gift are the beautiful illustrations. A great cautionary tale with some of the most original artwork in the last five years.	2003-10-21
936259:US	52966385	R2XCOQZ2J50BAF	0224022156	507403546	The War of the Birds and the Beasts and Other Russian Tales	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Russian Folk Tales Rock.	Russian folk tales are great stories. Unlike the Disneyized version of folk and fairy tales we have today, Russian tales are comic, but do not always end happily (Jim Henson was better than Walt Disney at telling a fairy tale). Anyway, some of Arthur Ransome's last collected works are in this collection.  Some of my favorites in the book are:<br />&quot;The Costly Ring&quot;<br />&quot;The Little Cattle&quot;<br />&quot;The Gypsy and Saint George&quot;<br />&quot;The Blacksmith in Heaven&quot;<br />&quot;The Two Brothers&quot;<br />One of my favorite stories of all time is &quot;The Soldier and Death&quot; which is also included in this volume. The main reason that I purchased this book is so that I could finally have my own copy of that beloved tale. &quot;The Soldier and Death&quot; is a great story, sad, but great nonetheless. It has just the right combination of comedy mixed with a dab of tragedy, for the two are really just different sides of the same coin.<br />This is a wonderful collection of Russian folk tales and I highly recommend it for anyone looking for some great stories to read by the fire. You might just learn something, too.	2003-10-17
939052:US	52966385	R3MBDBQYOIEC72	0140308040	833713311	The Mouse King:  A story from Tibet  (Puffin Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Meek Shall Inherit the Earth.	This charming little fairy tale from Tibet is about the mouse king who comes to visit the king of the land, the King of the Lake. The mice of the kingdom are dying from lack of food and the Mouse King comes asking for food for his people. He promises that in one year's time, the mice will repay the king for all the food they take plus interest. The King of the Lake agrees and the mice take all the food in the storehouses saving themselves from starvation. In one year they return with more food than they had originally taken.  The King of the Lake and the Mouse King become good friends. Some time later, another king goes to war against the King of the Lake. The King of the Lake is on the verge of defeat but the Mouse King appears offering the assistance of the mice. In the end the mice end up saving the day and the King of the Lake chases all the cats out of Tibet. The meek inherit the Earth.<br />This story is very beautifully illustrated. If some of the illustrations were not part of the book and were just in a magazine, they would be suitable for framing. Young children will probably enjoy this story and will probably find the part where the mice float down the river on yak turds quite humorous. Overall, a charming little tale illustrating how even the smallest among us is worthy of honor.	2003-10-15
940947:US	52966385	R2MH21J5YINPRK	0878331484	215264631	Spielberg: The Man, the Movies, the Mythology	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Pop Biography	I'm not quite sure what Sanello was thinking, but his biography, SPIELBERG is the biography equivalent of a one-hit-wonder. The most significant part of the book is the first few chapters that deal with Spielberg's early life. I learned some things I didn't know before. However, I guess after Sanello finished talking with a few old friends and family, he figured that was all the real research he needed to do because the rest of the biography reads like an extended version of PEOPLE magazine. There are no juicy tidbits and no in-depth research or even assumptions about how Spielberg is able to do what he does. The few times that Sanello discusses skirmishes that Spielberg had with former cast members, a short anecdote is given about their careers after the film and that is about all. Not only that, but several times throughout the book, Sanello quotes himself verbatim from previous chapters; sounding more like a freshman college student taking Lit 101 than the famed biographer he is supposed to be. Overall, SPIELBERG was a major let down. It's worth reading for the first couple chapters about Spielberg's early days, but the rest of the novel you can read yourself in the trades, newspapers, and magazines.	2003-10-14
941735:US	52966385	R3OOV4VYV9J0LB	0689839294	395490111	Pickles To Pittsburgh	Books	4	21	23	N	Y	Not Returning to Chewandswallow.	I thought PICKLES TO PITTSBURGH was the sequel to CLOUDY WITH A CHANCE OF MEATBALLS, but I was somewhat mistaken. The children from the first story do visit Chewandswallow, but only in a dream. The illustrations in this book are just as original as the ones in the first. However, the story is lacking and doesn't have the charm of the original story. Young children don't seem to mind that, though, and like reading the stories back to back. If you're familiar with CLOUDY WITH A CHANCE OF MEATBALLS, you maybe disappointed somewhat after reading PICKLES TO PITTSBURGH. However, if you're just looking for a book to read to kids, it's a good choice.	2003-10-13
943084:US	52966385	R2M1N0BG9UXMFG	0803709811	860321083	Fritz and the Mess Fairy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Clean Up Your Room.	Fritz is a little skunk who hates to clean, says he will do things then forgets, is a procrastinator, and gets in trouble a lot. Then one night after making a terrible mess and getting yelled at by his father, mother, and sister, Fritz is awaken by the Mess Fairy: a creature brought to life by Fritz's last minute science experiment. The Mess Fairy makes a mess bigger than anything Fritz ever could do. However, Fritz learns an important lesson through the experience and vows to be a little more cleanly in the future.<br />The illustrations that accompany the text are good and children enjoy reading the story. I especially liked how the author used a skunk as the main character, playing with the way skunks naturally smell. This is a good story to read to children who have a difficult time picking up after themselves at home and makes a nice bed time story.	2003-10-12
943364:US	52966385	RNZYS2CRHPT25	0740726889	666546874	Pop, Your" Poifect"!:AThree Stooges Salute to Dad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Gift for Dad	POP, YOU'RE POIFECT is a great gift to give to a dad. Most men love watching The Three Stooges, especially fathers. The book is like a giant card filled with photos of the stooges in some of their most hilarious moments. This is a wonderful, inexpensive gift for any father. It's also a nice present for any Three Stooges fan.	2003-10-12
947079:US	52966385	R1MPD61BT0A62U	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	3	32	38	N	N	Too Much Talk, Not Enough Substance.	I read this book after a friend recommended it to me. I was really looking forward to the insights that the authors supposedly were to have. Unfortunately, the authors didn't have many. Starve your eyes, guard your heart, defend your mind, and cherish your wife. That sums up the last third of the book and the part that is most applicable to one's life. The first two-thirds of the book talks about the problems the authors had with lust, how they overcame it, how wicked men are, and how much better we will be if we follow their advice. Which basically boils down to keeping your eyes away from sexual images and honoring women as your sisters.<br />I'm sorry if that sounds negative, but EVERY MAN'S BATTLE was a real let down for me. As a single man who has honored women, but who has struggled with lust (but apparently not as much as other men do), I was really looking forward to some new tips and positive advice. There is some positive advice, but there really are no new tips. However, the authors take more time telling about problems and talking about how wicked men are than they do about giving helpful advice. Not only that, but contrary to what the authors claim occassionally throughout the book, this is a book for married men, not single guys. True, single men who have never confronted the demon within may find the information in the book quite useful. However, for guys like me who have strived their whole lives to live a life of purity and have honored and held women in the highest regard, it really isn't worth reading. If anything else, it makes single guys long even more to be married, even if that is not what God is calling them to do.  I'm sorry to say this, because I really wanted to like this book, but overall there's just too much talk and not enough substance.	2003-10-09
947111:US	52966385	R11482W1PY5HZU	0374466238	562971895	Shrek!	Books	5	16	19	N	N	The Original  Shrek.	No, this is not a book based off the blockbuster movie. In fact, this little story is where the idea for SHREK the movie came from. The story and illustrations are classic William Stieg, mixing a childlike fascination with a bizarre almost cynical, humorous look at the world. In this case, Steig takes on the fairy tale.<br />Shrek is an ugly green ogre who can belch fire. However, one day his parents decide it's time to kick him out of the family hole in the swamp and see what mischief he can do in the world. He wanders through the woods and meets a witch who is repulsed by his stench and appearance, but agrees to tell him his future for one of his lice. She predicts that in a castle Shrek will find his true love, a princess, and live happily ever after. Along the way, Shrek runs into a talking donkey, a dragon, and an inept knight. He finally reaches the castle and meets a princess there who is more hideous than Shrek. They woo each other with monster poetry and are married at the end.<br />The story is funny, but children who have seen the movie too many times may not find the book as amusing as they would have before. The original Shrek is a totally different kind of ogre than the one in the movie. The original Shrek is borish, hideous, and somewhat offensive. Nevertheless, this is a story that somewhat older children do enjoy and if nothing else it's worth reading to see where the idea for SHREK the movie started.	2003-10-09
947203:US	52966385	R23G8V0TAI4HJN	0689851464	42393042	It's Time for School, Charlie Brown (Peanuts Ready-To-Read)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	True, but not quite.	I don't think that Charles Schultz would be very pleased right now. Someone is taking his beloved Peanuts and making products just to make money. I love the Peanuts and I love Charlie Brown and when I saw this book in a department store, I thought, \\"Great, a new Charlie Brown book.\\"  Well, this book isn't quite the nut it's cracked up to be. Charlie Brown enters a spelling bee against the protests of his friends. He really thinks he can win, but when he finally gets his moment to shine, he messes up big time. The book ends by basically saying things are hopeless for Charlie. The ending is what really bothered me. Yes, Charlie Brown is a lovable loser, but even when he loses there's always some catharsis; he usually thinks about his loss or talks about it with Linus and the story ends on a note of positivity. Not so here. Peanuts fans are the only people I recommend this book for.	2003-10-09
950550:US	52966385	R1G88Q5GVBPU48	1572740809	620117558	Jump the Broom (Books for Young Learners)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Short and Sweet.	This short little book is filled with lively illustrations. The book involves a little boy at a wedding and asking why the bride and groom jumped the broom. The child's mother explains to him where the tradition comes from and why it is still practiced. The story is very short and younger children might find the pictures more interesting than the text. A nice little book that is helpful to introducing younger children to different cultures and traditions.	2003-10-06
950782:US	52966385	R26TC2S2PKZM5C	0439288924	770092865	Flip And Flop	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Boomba!	I picked this book up because I love penguins and enjoy reading children's literature. I found the story to be quite engaging. The book is filled with bright illustrations that enliven the normally drab colors usually associated with polar bears and penguins. The story is about two brother penguins. The older brother is 5 and is named Flip and the younger brother is 2 and is named Flop. They enjoy playing games and having fun together and they love each other very much. However, sometimes Flip finds Flop annoying and wants to do his own thing. The story is somewhat sad at this point, but soon turns around as Flop meets a new friend and is eventually reconciled with his brother. This would be a great story to read together to siblings. It made me think of all the times I spent playing with my youngest brother. A good story.	2003-10-06
954538:US	52966385	R17HUD4H21C7RI	0131043668	656206967	The Scott Foresman Handbook for Writers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For those who don't know.	This handbook is a wonderful tool for anyone unfamiliar with standard English grammar. It is written in a simple and user-friendly way without much of the technical jargon that can be found in many other writing handbooks. Personally, the best part of this handbook are the sections on documentation.  This book includes sections on how to document texts according to MLA, APA, CMS, and COS styles of writing, whereas, many other handbooks only include one or two styles of documentation. This is a decent investment for any college student or young adult and would make a nice addition to any middle school/high school library.	2003-10-02
955064:US	52966385	R3QT1SF3BH9DVD	0060239700	80683021	Martha the Movie Mouse	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Mouse at the Movies.	Though this story was first published almost forty years ago, it still remains charming. The book tells the story about a little mouse named Martha. Martha is hungry, cold, and starving on the street. Then one day she sees a movie theatre and sneeks inside. Dan, the man who runs the theatre, is glad to see Martha and the two quickly become friends. Martha soon falls in love with movies. She finds herself getting caught up in the action, imagining new places in her mind, and sometimes even acting out what she sees on screen. However, not everyone appreciates a talking, singing, dancing mouse as much as Dan and soon there is trouble.<br />The story is written in rhyming couplets and the illustrations that accompany the text are a joy to look at. As a huge fan of movies, I'll read just about anything having to do with film or cinema and I have a great appreciation for children's literature, so I thoroughly enjoyed this quaint little story. This would be a good book to read to children from preschool through about the second grade. It also makes a nice gift for anyone who appreciates older children's literature or anyone who is a fan of Arnold Lobel.	2003-10-02
958016:US	52966385	RKQAMUYKESC4Q	0307128148	13378064	If You Were Kermit (Golden Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tadpoles and Pollywogs.	I picked this book up because I'm a huge Muppet fan. In this short children's book, Kermit the Frog describes what it would be like if you were him. Short as the story is it does include lessons on sharing and the value of each person. This is a nice book for children and makes a good gift for any Muppet or Kermit the Frog fan.	2003-09-30
962603:US	52966385	R1A30QX5Q2M5BB	0152050361	738317672	The Maldonado Miracle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Running Scared.	THE MALDONADO MIRACLE is a story about a fourteen year-old boy named Jose who becomes an illegal immigrant to the United States to meet up with his father. Jose's mother died four months before the story began and Jose's father, Maldonado, has gone to the U.S. to find work and a place to stay. After getting settled in, he sends for Jose.<br />Jose is forced to sell everything he has, except for his dog Sanchez, to make the illegal trip across the border. When he arrives at the place he is supposed to meet Maldonado, he learns that his father has been sent elsewhere and will not be back for sometime. Jose is then sent to a migrant worker camp to await until his father returns. While there a man attempts to rape Jose, but is severely wounded by Sanchez. Afraid that they will shoot his dog, Jose flees. He recieves a puncture wound along the way and spends the night in an old church, not realizing that his blood had dripped upon a statue of Jesus. Jose leaves the next morning, but soon all of Southe-western California is flocking to the mission at San Ramon to see the miracle. When Jose learns of this, is forced with a decsion to tell the truth and possibly be deported or let many people live in a lie.<br />THE MALDONADO MIRACLE is not a spectacular piece of work.  However, the plot is good and the characters of Jose, Giron, and Father Lebeon are fairly well developed. The story seems to move slowly, but in fact it does not. It is written in a style that Hispanics actually live life, slow and steady with no rush. The book raises some issues about illegal aliens and their treatment in and outside of this country and it also has something to say about faith.<br />Overall, not too bad of a book that has some important messages to say.  Reading THE MALDONADO MIRACLE is a nice way to spend a lazy afternoon.	2003-09-26
962606:US	52966385	R10OFPMY4PMIRY	0060937866	151775653	A Year at the Movies: One Man's Filmgoing Odyssey	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Falling In Love With the Movies.	A YEAR AT THE MOVIES: ONE MAN'S FILMGOING ODYSSEY is not a movie review book. Maybe 1/5th of the +300 pages could be called a review of movies. The majority of the book is devoted to Kevin's essays/travelogue as he traveled around the world watching one movie a day for one whole year. The book is not meant to be a comical parody or a knee-slapping joke book (unlike some of the works of Murphy's friend Mike Nelson). Instead, it is basically what the title says &quot;a filmgoing odyssey&quot;.  It's a collection of tales about Murphy and the adventures and misadventures he had circumnavigating the globe in an attempt to rediscover why he like movies so much.<br />The book is divided into roughly fifty-two chapters (there's also an introduction and epilogue) dedicated to each of the fifty-two weeks spent on his quest. Murphy traveled to the smallest movie theatre in the world (located in New Zealand) to a movie theatre made from ice. Finland to Australia and LA to Minneapolis. Several of the chapters have a theme:  horror films (during Halloween week), Christmas movies, date movies, etc.  My three favortie chapters in the book were:<br />3.  The week he talked about September 11 and how the events of that day affected him and made him rethink his journey.<br />2.  The chapter devoted to fanboys; talking about seeing the premier of THE LORD OF THE RINGS: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING.<br />And my favorite chapter in the whole book came near the end,<br />1.  The chapter about Santa Claus and Christmas.<br />As enjoyable as I found this book, it definitely is not for everyone. I would only recommend this book for someone who is a MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATRE 3000 fan, someone who has a passion for film, or someone who just has a variety of quirky interests and likes to read.	2003-09-26
963771:US	52966385	R28FO5GAHE8KRJ	0440413281	866003575	Bud, Not Buddy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Learning About History.	BUD, NOT BUDDY is a story about a ten-year-old African-American boy living in Michigan during the time of the Great Depression. Bud's mother passed away when he was six and over the past several years he has lived from orphanage to foster home to orphanage to foster home. After being locked in an old shed on the land of his current foster family, Bud decides that it's time he ran away and went on the lam to look for his father. Bud has never met his father but has a pretty good idea who it might be, a famous bass player and band leader by the name of Herman E. Calloway. Bud sets out on a journey to meet Herman  E. Calloway and along the way learns a great deal about the country that he never knew before.<br />BUD, NOT BUDDY is a great book for older elementary and middle school students to read. It touches upon all sorts of issues that are both historical (the Great Depression, Hoovervilles, hobos) and current (racism, KKK). The book is told from Bud's point of view, but is never condescending.  Christopher Paul Curtis captures the feel and imagination of a child storyteller perfectly.  A charming book to read, full of historical insight and youthful imagination.	2003-09-25
968331:US	52966385	R3KQGF45OOLOH3	0915134330	424324604	Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The First of the Narnia Books.	THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE is the first book in the Chronicles of Narnia. It doesn't matter how the books are being published right now, if you read them for the first time out of order (starting with THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW instead of LWW) it seriously takes away some of the magic, suspense, and mystery of the books.  With that said, THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE is a classic piece of children's fiction.  Written by the great C.S. Lewis the story tells the tale of how four children travel through a magic wardrobe and find themselves in the land of Narnia, a place where animals can walk and talk and magic and myth come alive together.  The children soon find themselves caught up in a grand battle between the forces of good and evil. The children join the great lion, Aslan against the evil White Witch in a war to decide who shall rule Narnia. The story teaches some great lessons about honesty, bravery, and hospitality. It's full of allegory and makes for a great story.  Highly recommended to people of all ages.	2003-09-21
968483:US	52966385	RYA6QPOJQWC69	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To Be or Not to Be.	I absolutely loved STARGIRL. Once I finished reading it, I almost cried. I wasn't able to stop reading it until I had finished. It's a great story with a good message.<br />STARGIRL is about a girl named Stargirl Carraway who moves into Mica High School and starts a sensation. She dresses in different clothes, plays an ukulele, sings songs to people at lunch, decorates her desk in each class she attends. She is vibrant and full of spirit. The cheerleading squad invites her to join and she soon revives the community spirit of the sleepy town. Nevertheless, Stargirl is a nonconformist. She doesn't fit into anyone else's mold.  However, though STARGIRL is about Stargirl, it is not Stargirl's story. STARGIRL is actually the story of Leo Borlock. It is about how he met this girl one day who was unlike anyone else he had ever met in his life. He becomes entranced by her and eventually falls in love with her. However, Leo is a popular student and he eventually has to choose between his love for Stargirl and his love of popularity.<br />This is a great book. It touches upon the ideas of nonconformity, transcendatlism, and first love. The story is quite engaging and should appeal to readers of both genders and all ages. I highly recommend it.	2003-09-21
968669:US	52966385	RG58HGYSYZ4UQ	0736421270	848134713	Fish School (Finding Nemo)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Back to the Anemone.	This short story takes place after the adventures of the movie FINDING NEMO. Basically, it tells what happens to Nemo during a day in school. Other than that, there is no plot. The illustrations are not the quality of stills and shots from the film, but are recognizable. This is a decent book for young children who have seen the movie and also makes a decent gift for any fan of the film.	2003-09-21
985451:US	52966385	R5ALE2AQMWIF6	1576731219	345922456	A Chance at Childhood Again:  Restoring Freedom and Wonder to Everyday Life	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Adults Need to Read This.	I loved reading A CHANCE AT CHILDHOOD AGAIN. Most of the principles that the writer talks about are things that I believe and have been trying to incorporate into my life for years. However, Alan Wright gives better actual real-life examples to support his statements than anything I could have thought up on my own.  Basically the premise of the book is that adults could learn a lot from watching kids. Jesus said that to inherit the kingdom of Heaven, we must become like a child. I know a lot of people who just don't understand that statement. They try to ignore it, supporting passages where the Apostle Paul talks about becoming a man and putting away childish things. What these people fail to recognize is that Jesus and Paul were not in conflict with each other. There is a difference between being childish and being childlike and that is the key. When a person is childlike, their life becomes enriched in ways that others only think about. A person who has a childlike faith is full of wonder, mystery, and warmth. Their life stands out from the rest. I have often been accused of being \\"like a little kid\\". I wouldn't want it any other way. Perhaps by reading A CHANCE AT CHILDHOOD AGAIN, you'll begin to put that childlike playfulness in your own life and begin to see things differently.	2003-09-06
985522:US	52966385	R1SHGTPU21ZKBV	0878305173	82497948	Dark of the Moon	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Poetry In Motion	DARK OF THE MOON takes place in the Appalachian Mountains. It is a play about a witch boy named John who falls in love with a beautiful girl named Barbara Allen. John has a conjur woman turn him into a human. The only condition of the spell is that Barbara must remain faithful to John for one full year after they are married. If Barbara is not faithful, then John will turn back into a witch boy.<br /><br />The play is beautifully written and allows actors a wonderful opportunity to use the Appalachian dialect. At times, the words of the characters become poetry in motion. Nevertheless, DARK OF THE MOON is not a very uplifting play. Yes, it deals with prejudice and loss and hypocrisy; but because of the way the play is written these issues have no purpose and give the play no meaning. Therefore, though the play maybe poetry in motion, it has no soul.	2003-09-06
987437:US	52966385	R26LYZBLTYKNTU	0698116844	122408481	The Cat Ate My Gymsuit	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Teaching a Difference.	THE CAT ATE MY GYMSUIT is a young adult novel directed towards females, though males who read the book with an open mind may find they enjoy it as well.<br /><br />The story is told from the perspective of Marcy Lewis. Marcy Lewis is thirteen, in the ninth-grade, and thinks she looks like a blimp. Marcy has a father who yells a lot and usually doesn't have many kind words to say. Marcy does well in school, but is very shy and bashful. Then one day Marcy's class gets a new English teacher, Ms. Finney.  Ms. Finney is unlike any teacher the students have ever had: she doesn't dress the same as the other teachers, she doesn't act the same as the other teachers, she doesn't teach the same as the other teachers.  However, Ms. Finney's unorthodox teaching methods and strong beliefs eventually lead to her suspension. Finney's suspension causes the students to plan a rebellion and Marcy becomes one of the leaders.  The turmoil at school leads to greater tension at home and Marcy has to decide whether to support Ms. Finney or agree with her father and, \\"Learn to play by the rules.\\"<br /><br />While reading THE CAT ATE MY GYMSUIT, I couldn't but help compare the book to the movie DEAD POET'S SOCIETY. There are some major differences between the two pieces, yet there are also some striking similarities. Anyone who has ever seen DEAD POET'S SOCIETY can appreciate the central message that is conveyed and the story that is told in THE CAT ATE MY GYMSUIT. Both pieces have a lot to say about the impact that one good teacher can have upon a student's life. Teaching really is a noble profession.	2003-09-05
1104899:US	52966385	R3DZXGA15J4R93	0395311292	969223250	The Wump World	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Children and the Environment.	There are a ton of children's books written about taking care of the environment and quite frankly, most are dull and lipid, failing to capture the imagination of the reader and/or audience. THE WUMP WORLD is not such a book. Instead, it's one of the few pro-environment children's books that is actually enjoyable to read. The message the book teaches is more than just about pollution (even though the story's villians are called Pollutians) and has to do with loving nature, taking care of the precious planet we live, and the hope of good overcoming evil. The illustrations are amusing and capture both the mood of the story and the personalities of the creatures represented. For example, the Pollutians ships and machines look like real life contraptions, but with a monster-like appearance. The kids I used to teach in preschool loved this story and it was one I enjoyed reading, too.	2003-05-31
1109286:US	52966385	R2LC8GX7ZDHW8M	0340592729	839162104	Ragman and Other Cries of Faith	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	True Faith.	RAGMAN AND OTHER CRIES OF FAITH is a deeply moving collection of works concerning the Christian faith, written by Walt Wangerin, Jr. about some of his experiences as a pastor in the inner city. The title work, \\"Ragman\\" is a story that is often used as a skit/readers theatre throughout the country and is basically an updated tale about the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. The book includes poems, plays, sermons, and many great stories because as Wangerin writes, stories are what make a pastor. The tales are all personal and most are moving. They examine a deep and living faith that sees the work of God everywhere: from a naked, homebound parishoner who smells like urine to the painful death of a young woman to a crazy woman shooting a gun at no one in the middle of the street. This is a great book for any pastor, for anyone who has done urban missions, or for anyone looking for a book that illustrates the very real ways God is working in our world today. Highly recommended.	2003-05-27
1110669:US	52966385	R16Y0RETDPIFFK	0842329269	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind No. 5)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Pulp Is Starting To Fall Apart.	Out of the first five books in the Left Behind series, APOLLYON is the second worst of those five (LEFT BEHIND, TRIBULATION FORCE, NICOLAE, and SOUL HARVEST). After having got back on track with NICOLAE and SOUL HARVEST, LaHaye and Jenkins have gone back to the terrible writing and bad storytelling that was dominant in TRIBULATION FORCE. APOLLYON should have been a great book, after all it takes its title from one of the Four Riders of the Apocalypse who in the book happens to also be in charge of an army of demon locusts. However, the book doesn't focus on that and its really nothing more than an afterword. The book does focus on the gathering of the witnesses, but even that crucial event in the series isn't as detailed and involved as it should have been. Besides that, the novel spends a bunch of time jumping back and forth between characters and killing off one of the most exciting and interesting members of the Tribulation Force (am I the only one out there who thinks the series would have been a lot better if Raymond died?). So basically, other than the meeting of the witnesses, the demon locusts, and a little excitement inbetween the meeting and the locust, nothing happens. It's rather disappointing and a bit of a let down. After all, there's only so much Christian pulp fiction that one can read before it starts to fall apart.	2003-05-26
1110746:US	52966385	RQLVUT6JR1OAP	0849942373	684573673	Bruce and Stan Search for the Meaning of Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Road Trip Across the USA.	Bruce Bickel and Stan Jantz are two middle-aged men and best friends who take a road trip across the United States for one purpose, to find out what Americans think the meaning of life is. The duo visited eleven major cities and found that each place had its own theme, its own identity. These themes helped Bruce and Stan decide on particular people they wanted to talk with and provide a framework for which the book is written around.<br />But don't get the wrong impression. Bruce and Stan aren't serious philosophers on an epic quest. No, they are basically just two normal Christian men with a great gift of comedy. The book is full of more humorous insights than serious ones and it is clear that these two gentlemen know life is a comedy and not a tragedy.<br />SEARCH FOR THE MEANING OF LIFE is entertaining, full of insights, and easy to read. It also has lots of quirky little facts about the various places they visited. It's part travel book, part philosophy treatise, part humor book. Combined together it makes for one highly enjoyable read.	2003-05-26
1111569:US	52966385	RTNZI75FQDUB6	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	0	0	N	N	American Literature.	THE GREAT GATSBY is one of those books that people either love or hate with no inbetweens. There are many who consider THE GREAT GATSBY to be the great American novel. I wouldn't go so far as to say that, but there is no question that it is a great book and a classic piece of American literature. The book evokes a particular time and place like very few writings can. The words in the novel flow together like cool water in a fresh-water mountain stream. However, what I find most amazing about THE GREAT GATSBY is that even though the novel doesn't have any truly redeeming characters and has a plot that is pointless and somewhat predictable, the story unwittingly sweeps the reader into the world in which it takes place so that before one realizes it, the story is over and the book is finished. Not very many stories can do that. It's not difficult to understand why Andy Kaufman loved this book so.	2003-05-26
1111610:US	52966385	R1B5ZMS05E2OZM	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Life Worth Living.	Life is beautiful. However, we often get so caught up in mere existing that we forget that how beautiful and precious life really is. We are like the way Mitch Albom used to be, going about our day to day routines failing to think about the truly important things. Then something happens, tragedy strikes in some shape and form and we are forced to get back to living.<br />That's what happened to Mitch Albom when his college professor and advisor, Morrie Schwartz, became stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease. After finding out about his old teacher's illness and how serious it had become, Albom began making weekly trips--on Tuesdays--from Michigan to Massachusetts to meet with Morrie and partake in the last class Morrie was ever to teach. It was a class unlike any other and Albom was the only student. The subject was both simple and profound: life. And from that, TUESDAY'S WITH MORRIE was written.<br />TUESDAY'S WITH MORRIE, like life itself, is both simple and profound. The book is beautifully written and often reads like poetry. In less than 200 pages, Albom shares insights that are full of a lifetime of experience. This is a great book. It is a book that can change one's life and even though I don't agree with all of Morrie's lessons and beliefs, I did learn a thing or two and am a better person because of it. Well worth reading.	2003-05-26
1113057:US	52966385	R1B4F59T3IW069	0822207923	766767737	The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940.	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Stop it You're Killing Me.	THE MUSICAL COMEDY MURDERS OF 1940 is not the typical who-dunnit murder mystery. Sure the show starts off with someone getting killed in the first scene by an unknown murderer. However, as the guests arrive and the snow falls, the audience soon learns this isn't your average \\"party\\". No, this is supposedly an audition for a \\"backer\\", an \\"angel\\", a patron of the arts for a new show and the people involved include the director, producer, a few actors, a dancer, and a comedian. The mystery keeps you guessing for awhile who the real killer is, but there are several twists and lots of theatre jokes. With all that and a sidekick who turns out to be a hero, THE MUSICAL COMEDY MURDERS OF 1940 is a show not to be missed.	2003-05-24
1113571:US	52966385	R3V1SU15QBJ5BS	1565635140	726001896	Seeing God in the Ordinary: A Theology of the Everyday	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outside of the Box.	Too often in the modern Church, there is a message preached about the differences between the &quot;secular&quot; and the &quot;spiritual&quot; that verges on Gnosticism. This should not be. God is bigger than we can ever imagine and too often we miss out on seeing God because He doesn't fit the little boxes we've built for Him.<br />SEEING GOD IN THE ORDINARY is a book that attempts to correct the fallacy of the semi-dualism being preached in many churches today. It is a book that illustrates just how big God really is and that the God who performed so many marvelous deeds in the Bible, is alive and well today working in and through the &quot;common&quot; and &quot;mundane&quot; things of life. Life truly is beautiful if we would only open our eyes and see.	2003-05-23
1116519:US	52966385	R2HS163EA01195	0816749736	750841325	Journey To Monticello - Pbk (New Cover) (Adventures in Colonial America)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Traveling in Colonial Times.	In this fast-paced age we live, it's even difficult for adults to remember that traveling didn't use to be so easy. JOURNEY TO MONTICELLO illustrates the hardships of traveling in colonial times in very dramatic and graphic detail by telling the tale of Amos Trumball on a journey to deliver an important letter to Thomas Jefferson. Amos travels from his home in Braintree, Massachusetts to Monticello, Virginia. Along the way he rides in a coach, ferry, on a horse, and travels by foot. The trip takes several weeks and Amos incurs several hardships. Great book for introducing children to colonial times and also for helping them realize how blessed we are nowadays.	2003-05-21
1121995:US	52966385	R1XM5TNU4J60GS	0785269800	60778525	Atlantyx: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What is Real?	ATLANTYX is a book that deals with some very complex issues, mainly drug and video game addictions. Also, though the book is a \\"Christian\\" novel, it doesn't read like the typical, watered-down \\"Christian\\" novel. Instead, the characters are presented with all their faults and redeeming qualities. The book explores the nature of reality and whether of not there is an ultimate reality where everything makes sense.<br />I found the novel to be a page turner and read it within two days (I could have completed it in one if I didn't have to work). The book reads like a movie and is full or great visual images. My only complaint is that the ending is rather hurried. The book's ending happens rather suddenly and there is no real closure to all that occurs. Neither is there any truly \\"final battle\\". The premise that the novel is based is so promising and there is so much more that could have been done with it. It's a little disappointing to see that the very talented and promising writer, Chase Dalton, take the easy road out.<br />Overall, a wonderful book recommended for anyone looking for some great Christian fiction or for anyone addicted to video games.	2003-05-16
1122081:US	52966385	R2LU5NU1FE5N9Q	039525938X	902144535	The Little House	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Simple Things in Life.	This delightful little book was written many years ago, but the story has not aged at all and the quaint illustrations now add to the book's charm. A little house is built in the country and the builders/owners say that the little house will never be torn down and will remain so that future generations can continue living there. As time goes on, the noise of the city is heard until eventually the little house is a part of a very big city.<br />The story is a pure delight. However, it also contains some subtle messages about the effects of urbanization and an appreciation for the simple things in life. The book also helps children learn about seasons as the little house watches one season pass into the next. Great book.	2003-05-16
1122621:US	52966385	R3PO8YB0OABFOY	0801038707	788741613	Fit Bodies Fat Minds:  Why Evangelicals Don't Think and What to Do About It (Hourglass Books)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Wake-Up Call With No Real Solution.	In FIT BODIES FAT MINDS, Os Guinness makes the point that American evangelical Christians have failed to &quot;love the Lord your God with all . . . mind&quot;. He claims that this is the biggest sin that the American Church is guilty. In the book, Guinness explores the issues that led to a decline in Christian thought and issues that are currently keeping Christians from truly using their minds.<br />I mostly agree with Guinness' claims. Evangelical Christians in America have not used our minds. We have left them atrophy to the point where, like the rest of America, we are addicted to mediocrity. We need to relcaim the intellect for Christ and take every thought captive to His obedience. However, Guiness doesn't really offer any solutions to the problem. Therefore, FIT BODIES FAT MINDS is more of a wake-up call than a plan of action.	2003-05-16
1123038:US	52966385	R3IV656XK7ZOPC	0439284848	170008050	Scooby-Doo! and the Rowdy Rodeo (Scooby-Doo Mysteries, No. 19)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Clowns and Wagon Chow.	In this edition of the Scooby-Doo book series, the Mystery Inc. gang visits a rodeo operated by Bucky McCoy, the world-famous yodeling cowboy. Fred is one of Bucky's biggest fans and he wants to introduce the gang to his childhood hero. However, Bucky's rodeo is having financial problems and a malignant rodeo clown tries to scare everyone away. It's up to Scooby and the gang to solve the mystery and save the rodeo.<br />This entry into the series reads like an average book and since the mystery doesn't really involve a scary monster, the story isn't as exciting as other Scooby-Doo tales.	2003-05-15
1123895:US	52966385	R26VOUU5S2ZB4L	9994542052	174734463	Clifford Goes to Hollywood	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Big Dog in a Big Town.	Clifford is more than just a big red dog. As it turns out, he's also a great actor. So a famous director casts Clifford in a movie and a short time later, he's a star. It's off to Hollywood; swimming pools, movie stars, and fancy food. But Clifford has to leave Emily Elizabeth behind. Is fame worth the cost of family?  Great book with a subtle message about the importance of family and the simpler things in life.	2003-05-15
1123913:US	52966385	R3KWB870VNL9S2	0393327345	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	The First Rule of Fight Club is That You Don't Talk About It	After having watched the interesting movie, I wanted to read the novel and compare the similarities and differences between the two different mediums. I find the movie to be superior, but the book is interesting nonetheless.<br /><br />FIGHT CLUB is the type of novel that won't make sense if you're just looking for a good story. To begin with, it's a novel that deals with all kinds of complex issues (the enslavement of materialism, what is reality, etc.). However, besides that is the fact that the story is told in first person, but the narrator has some serious problems and his storytelling style seems more in place in a Faulkner novel than in a modern day pop cultural literary novelty. Still the story is semi-coherent and there are some great scenes and quotes (&#34;His name was Robert Paulsen&#34;) that you will find yourself saying over and over.<br /><br />However, the novel does have one serious flaw. The writing is just plain horrible. Contrary to what Palahniuk says, he does not write the way that normal people talk. It doesn't even seem he writes in the way that normal people think. Instead, his prose is a run-off of post-modernistic deconstructionism that distracts rather than attracts.<br /><br />Still, if you can stay with it and understand all the meaning behind the words, FIGHT CLUB is worth reading.	2003-05-15
1124798:US	52966385	R35TL2WVC7SCC3	0830817352	380757845	The Coming Great Awakening	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Looking Back Through Time.	It maybe strange, but I really enjoy reading books that were written ten or twenty years ago for the sole purpose of predicting events that would happen and/or preparing people for possible events that may occur. Many people like reading these books if the foretold events happens. When that happens the books become best sellers and the authors become experts on everything. However, most of the time, events fail to unfold as predicted. I find these books more interesting than the more successful kind. But what about books that fall in the in between?<br /><br />THE COMING GREAT AWAKENING is one such book. The book was written in the early 1990s as an attempt to prepare college students for the possible Great Awakening that would be taking place on college campuses during that decade. Though the 1990s are long gone and we are in the new era of the 21st century, it might be another ten years before one can really see if the Great Awakening that David McKenna predicted would happen actually did or not.<br /><br />I do not know if this Great Awakening is happening. However, THE COMING GREAT AWAKENING isn't very good reading material. Other than learning about other awakenings in the past, the book is pretty dull and uninformative. Other than the quirky interest in studying the past to learn about the future, the book really doesn't have much purpose or interest.	2003-05-14
1125172:US	52966385	R3YAYLS2TJ97J	0883941015	332372561	Bruce Catton: Reflections on the Civil War	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	The Civil War Brought to Life.	Even though history is all around us, it often seems to get bogged down in a lot of facts and figures at the expense of the people involved. That never happened with Bruce Catton and that's the reason that twenty-five years after his death his writings are still The books on the American Civil War.<br />REFLECTIONS ON THE CIVIL WAR was edited together from a series of audio tapes Catton made on the subject. The book is Catton's last major work. It summarizes the war in a very thorough, yet humane way. In fact, it maybe the most human of all of Catton's books. Looking at the war from the perspective of both the common soldier and the average citizen, REFLECTIONS OF THE CIVIL WAR encompasses all the major events of the war and many minor ones.  The book never seems preachy and though it quickly flows from one subject to the next, the storytelling never seems jumpy. In fact, Catton's brilliant technique breathes life into the history of the American Civil War; whether it's a major battle such as Bull Run or Gettysburg or a famous figure; such as Jefferson Davis, Robert E. Lee, or President Lincoln; or maybe just the weapons used in battle.<br />This is a great book for any Civil War fan, whether a novice or expert. Everyone is sure to learn something.	2003-05-14
1126033:US	52966385	R275FABPX48J1Y	140003339X	471212842	McSweeney's Mammoth Treasury of Thrilling Tales	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	What Happened to the Thrilling?	I was really looking forward to this collection of short stories. I used to love reading short stories when I was in school, but outside of magazines there really aren't that many short stories written anymore. In fact, that was the supposed reason for bringing together this collection of stories. Some of the stories are rather good, but most are mediocre, and a few are just plain stinkers. The stories I enjoyed the most were:<br />\\"The Tears of Squonk, and What Happened Thereafter\\" by Glen David Gold.  This story tells the tale of a murderous elephant and how she was finally captured and hung. This is my personal favorite story in the treasury.<br />\\"How Carlos Webster Changed His Name to Carl and Became a Famous Oklahoma Lawman\\" by Elmore Leonard  A young boy has his ice cream stolen by a famous gangster and moments later watches the criminal murder a lawmen.  That one event (the stealing of the ice cream or the killing?) changes the life of Carlos Webster forever.<br />\\"Up the Mountain Coming Down Slowly\\" by Dave Eggers  I'll give him credit, Eggers is a more talented writer than I imagined him to be as this story illustrates. It's the tale of a woman's quest to hike up Kilaminjaro. Great storytelling.<br />\\"The Martian Agent, A Planetary Romance\\" by Michael Chabon  This story is a \\"what if\\" piece of historical fiction.  The last bit of a rebellion on the British controlled North American continent is crushed. The two sons of the rebellion leader are saved and rescued by their famous uncle, an inventor of air ships.<br />Overall THRILLING TALES was a bit of a disappointment.  Several of the tales were promising, but did not deliver in the end, such as Nick Hornby's \\"Otherwise Pandemonium\\" a story about a VCR that can veiw the future. Others were duds. However, the few outstanding stories make this collection worth reading, though not necessarily worth buying.	2003-05-13
1127157:US	52966385	R83D9KNE4QQGM	0606223266	924134098	Story of the X-Men (Dk Readers)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Introduction to the Original Team.	This easy to read book aimed at young readers serves as a perfect introduction for those unfamiliar with the original X-Men team:  Cyclops, Marvel Girl, the Beast, Iceman, and Angel all studying under the tutelage of Charles Xavier, aka Professor X.  The book also talks about Magneto and the first adventure that the X-Men took part in. The classic team has taken many changes over the years, but few teams will rival the original. Great introduction to the original X-Men team.	2003-05-12
1148254:US	52966385	R3DWU6DMPRHK0Q	0325002304	600177821	Perform It!: A Complete Guide to Young People's Theatre	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Youth in the Theatre.	PERFORM IT! is a wonderful book for anyone who is just starting to work with youth in theatre. The book provides a basic outline of how to put on one's first production with a cast and crew composed of young people. The book includes lots of useful information and tidbits from basic skit ideas; how to make flats; stretching exercises; games; how to makes masks; and a complete walkthrough of directing a play from selecting a script to the final cast party. The book is short (96 pages) and doesn't delve too deeply into any particular area. Good guidebook for the novice youth theatre director.	2003-04-23
1148974:US	52966385	R3NCOLICSWRATJ	0875099750	504762748	Fantasy and Your Family: Exploring The Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter, and Modern Magick	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Worth the Time to Read	As a Christian artist who enjoys reading fantasy literature, I was a bit skeptical of FANTASY AND YOUR FAMILY before I read it. I had listened to arguments against the THE LORD OF THE RINGS and HARRY POTTER and quite frankly, none of them impressed me or caused me to think. However, I was rather surprised with Richard Abanes book. The book is well researched, documented, and supported.<br /><br />The book is divided into four parts. The first section examines fantasy literature in general. The second section discusses J.R.R. Tolkien and THE LORD OF THE RINGS. The third part deals with Harry Potter and the fourth section deconstructs the arguments both for and against Harry Potter.<br /><br />As mentioned earlier, I was surprised at how well documented and supported this book is. Even though I have enjoyed reading the Harry Potter novels and will probably continue to do so, FANTASY AND YOUR FAMILY helped make me aware of just how large the occult has influenced the writings of J.K. Rowling. For example, I had no idea that many of the characters refered to in the Harry Potter books (not main characters, but people mentioned in history, etc.) were actual occult leaders.<br /><br />This is a great book for any thinking Christian or any parent to read.	2003-04-22
1149892:US	52966385	RJYNQ8IT25NUE	0345461436	938075605	Star Wars, Episode II - Attack of the Clones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Filling In the Gaps.	The novel version of ATTACK OF THE CLONES describes everything that takes place in the movie, but it also fills in information that the movie leaves out. The motives of characters are explained, plot elements that were skimped over or skipped altogether in the film are described, and events that occured in the movie are illustrated in greater detail. The novel is a must-have for any Star Wars buff and can provide reasonable enjoyment for the average science fiction reader. I thoroughly enjoyed this book as it provided me with a better understanding of the events in ATTACK OF THE CLONES and the Star Wars universe.	2003-04-22
1151102:US	52966385	R1XVCMQT93BE9G	0761541659	382959507	Star Wars: The Clone Wars (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Just What I Needed	I found this strategy guide to be particularly useful. There were several levels that I just couldn't beat until I looked in this guide and found some tips and information that helped me overcome the obstacles that had previously beaten me. Among other things, the guide also has information concerning the multiplayer games, some codes and cheats, an interview with the game's creators, and a giant pull out poster of a Republican Fighter Tank (TX-130). It is true that much of the information found in the book can be found on the net. However, this strategy guide collects all that useful info into one place and prevents a person from having to keep going back and forth between the net and their game. Experienced gamers may not find this book useful, but for the novice, beginner, or average gamer this is something I highly recommend.	2003-04-21
1152731:US	52966385	R20CWDWRUSOA18	0939149044	782600694	Selected Poems: 1957-1987	Books	5	9	9	N	N	American Poetry At Large.	This wonderful book of poems brings together over three decades of poems by one of America's most powerful and dramatic poets, W.D. Snodgrass. I had the opportunity to meet Snodgrass a few years ago and the reading he gave was full of humor, depth, and vitality. Included in this volume or some poems from his Pulitzer Prize winning book, HEART'S NEEDLE, a collection of poems published in various periodicals, and the dramatic poems about Hitler's Third Reich. I especially enjoyed the poem's from \\"The Fuehrer Bunker\\". A delightful book to give to anyone who loves good American poetry.	2003-04-19
1155831:US	52966385	RYQPJUZFBK346	0830818324	611812224	The Potluck Hall of Fame & Other Bizarre Christian Lists	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Divine Laughter.	God has a sense of humor and I'm sure He's laughing about this book. Filled with all sorts of &quot;Christian Lists&quot;, hilarious cartoons, and various facts, this is a book that any &quot;educated&quot; Christian is sure to enjoy. Be forewarned, however, if you don't have a slightly warped sense of humor, you maybe offended.	2003-04-17
1155840:US	52966385	R1RTDLJBB4R692	0895263874	304137842	Disney: The Mouse Betrayed	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Walt Is Rolling in His Grave	Everybody loves the Walt Disney Company. At least Disney wants everyone to love Disney and if you don't love them, you know deep down inside that you really, really, really want to love the company. However, every since Michael Eisner took control of the company in the late 1980's, the house that Walt built has changed into a den of sin thats just a faade shielded by the image that Walt worked so hard to earn.<br /><br />DISNEY: THE MOUSE BETRAYED is a proper title for this book because it illustrates just how drastic things have changed at the Walt Disney Company. The first half of the book deals with crime, accidents, and controversies that have occurred at the Walt Disney World theme park in Orlando, Florida. The evidence to support the claims made in the book is quite solid and well documented. The second part of the book displays the various enterprises that Disney has ventured into since Eisner became king, illustrating how the Company has abandoned the policies and ethics established by Walt Disney himself.<br /><br />Granted that when Walt was alive there were problems and things weren't as rose-colored as most people believe. Nevertheless, Walt Disney did love families and he did follow a code of ethics and respectability that was enforced throughout his enterprises. He made an entertainment empire that people came to trust and feel safe about. However, that trust has been betrayed and many have no idea just how deep the darkness flows.<br /><br />The book has some flaws, but overall it is an eye-opener. If you've never heard of some of the sin and greed that Disney has ventured into the past 15-20 years, you will be surprised and possibly shocked.	2003-04-17
1156259:US	52966385	RH0UVYS4UFUCZ	0613114558	768636396	Curious George Goes To A Movie (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Curious George (Prebound))	Books	4	5	6	N	N	How a Movie Works.	Even though this wasn't one of the original titles in the CURIOUS GEORGE series and was written and illustrated by some unknown writers and artists in an attempt to cash in on CURIOUS GEORGE, I still thoroughly enjoyed this book. I picked it up because I'm a huge movie buff and will read just about anything about the movies. I was especially impressed by how much the illustrations resemble the original drawings.<br />In this story the Man in the Yellow Hat takes George to see a movie. George is curious about the light in a little window high above the ground. So, while the Man in the Yellow Hat is getting snacks, George finds his way into the machine booth and causes a mess.<br />Children love this story because it combines the misadventures of George with something they are familiar with, movies. A delightful book.	2003-04-16
1156785:US	52966385	R26T61CVZH4OZS	0395442370	129489991	The Giant Jam Sandwich (Sandpiper Book) (Rise and Shine)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Childhood Memories.	THE GIANT JAM SANDWICH was one of my favorite illustrated stories when I was a kid. I remember in first and second grade listening to this story at story time in the library. This book was one of those rare books that every kid in the class sat still for because we loved it so much and didn't want to miss one word or not be able to see one of the pictures. The story is rather simple; basically a town is over run by wasps and in order to get rid of the pesky insects, they build a giant jam sandwich. However, the original rhyming pattern adds a touch of flare to the story. Also, the illustrations are a pure joy to look at. This is a great book that most children will enjoy. But be forewarned, it's a book kids might want you to read over and over and over again.	2003-04-16
1159357:US	52966385	R3ELB54UEVDINZ	0849975956	996366446	The Legend Of The Three Trees - Picture Book	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Giving Your Dreams to God.	Every since I was a child I heard things like \\"Dare to Dream\\", \\"You can be anything you want to be\\", and \\"You can make your dreams a reality.\\"  However, as I've grown older and wiser I've discovered that though dreams do come true, it's not always as we expect them too. It would have been nice to have this explained to me when I was younger in that it would have saved me a great amount of time that I spent day dreaming. THE LEGEND OF THE THREE TREES would have been welcomed reading. The story is basically the TALE OF THE TREE TREES, but expanded. That story begins and ends rather suddenly, without any closure and failing to give the reader the catharsis one needs. LEGEND gives a sappy and simple opening that provides an atmosphere of peace. It also ends on a note of promise, explaining how God fulfilled the dreams of the three trees, but in much different and bigger ways than they ever expected. Living a life for Christ doesn't mean one has to give up their dreams, because in the Kindom of Christ dreams come true in far greater and more fulfilling ways than we ever imagined.	2003-04-14
1160781:US	52966385	R23Y73HQKKJ2X0	0525460098	321049734	Never Trust a Squirrel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Truth Comes Out.	Let's face it, even though squirrels seem like cute furry woodland creatures, that's just a disguise. Squirrels are evil mammals bent on world domination and can never be trusted. It's so wonderful to find a children's book that not only discusses this concept, but supports it.<br />NEVER TRUST A SQUIRREL! is about a young guinea-pig who fails to listen to the advice of his mother and goes wondering in the woods with a squirrel. When a sly fox shows up, the squirrel abandons the guinea-pig and what follows is a story of love and a lesson in parental obedience.<br />This is a great book and the kids I used to teach in preschool loved it. The illustrations are lively and full of natural color, augmenting each scene they accompany.	2003-04-13
1163137:US	52966385	R18L9JU5M9H44G	0743442245	918063070	The Road to Perdition	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Historical Fiction and the Art of Comics.	Even though the art seems simplistic and derivitive at times and the story perhaps somewhat cliched, when one actually takes the time to read ROAD TO PERDITION it becomes abundantly clear how much a work of love this novel was to both the author and the artist. The story is well known now since the release of the film in the summer of 2002 and revolves around Michael O'Sullivan, a hit man known as the Angel of Death because he does his job so well. However, O'Sullivan has a family and when his boss becomes paranoid that his Angel's little angels are going to bring down his empire he orders them all killed. But things don't work out very nicely and what follows is the tale of a father and son traveling together on a journey to Perdition to save their souls.<br />It has been suggested that the artwork looks copied from pictures of the period. This isn't quite true. The drawings seem similar to pictures of the period, but they are different. It is a testament of Rayner's work and skill. His simplistic, yet intricate drawings are so well done that some mistake them for the inspirations on which they are based.<br />Collins story is also more interesting than some have suggested. Not only is it a decent story about the love of a father towards his son (and there are more than a few Biblical allusions here), but it is also steeped in history from the period. Though this is a novel, it is more than that. It is a historical graphic novel and one will be hard pressed to refute the actual historical facts that seep through almost every page.<br />The book is more violent and dark than the movie that is based upon it. Yet at the same time, it is full of more hope and light. Most characters are more fleshed out than they are in the film and there is a lot of background information that the movie failed or could not include.<br />A great gift for any fan of the movie, any crime buff fan, or anyone interested in interested in buying a better than average graphic novel.	2003-04-10
1163340:US	52966385	R32FNQIYJSB8QV	1587171465	450493669	Planets Around the Sun - Level 1 (See More Readers)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Just The Facts, Mamm.	PLANETS AROUND THE SUN works rather well as an introductory book to the planets of the solar system in the Milky Way. The book briefly discusses the nine planets of the Milky Way, the Earth's Moon, and the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. The last page in the book displays a chart that illustrates, among other things, the distance of each planet from the sun; each planet's orbital period; amount of moons; and the amount of rings. There are several basic space facts scattered throughout the thirty pages, e.g. the winds on Neptune blow at over 700 mph. The thing that separates this book from others of it's kind that I have read are it's bright and vivid pictures. The pictures are full of color and contrast and bring to life the uniqueness of our solar system. Overall this is a wonderful book to introduce children to the wonder and miracle of space.	2003-04-10
1163579:US	52966385	R3HQ4FNJ9V83YN	1563979454	410238331	Poison Dart Frogs	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fascinated By Frogs.	Over the past several years, I have learned a lot about frogs. However, I have a lot more to learn. POISON DART FROGS has helped me in my quest for knowledge about frogs. The book is full of information and brilliantly penciled drawings. The book discusses such things as where the frogs poison comes from, how hunters gather the poison, how the frogs are born, and how they mate. A great book for any young person interested in nature or for anyone who loves frogs.	2003-04-10
1164690:US	52966385	R2W4HJKQZGNGHR	0744001986	280897224	Kingdom Hearts Official Strategy Guide (Signature Series)	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Great Guide.	After purchasing and playing KINGDOM HEARTS, I got addicted. However, after advancing rather quickly in the game, I got stuck between Monstro and Atlantica. I scoured the Internet, but it soon became a hassle to visit the net anytime that I reached a point I couldn't get past. So, I broke down and purchased the Official Strategy Guide. I'm really glad that I did. This is an awesome strategy guide! Without it, I would not have beaten Kingdom Hearts. The information contained within has also helped me beat 2 out of the 4 super bosses (I have yet to beat The Phantom and Sephiloth). Advanced gamers may not find this book useful, but just about everyone else who plays Kingdom Hearts will.	2003-04-09
1176303:US	52966385	R1L8XZ41TNLR7E	067178496X	163404979	Nemesis (Resident Evil #5)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	What It's Worth.	At the time of this writing, I have not yet played RESIDENT EVIL. However, I have read the novel adaptation of the game (THE UMBRELLA CONSPIRACY) and that novel intrigued me so much that I wanted to check the continuing adventures of my favorite character from that novel, Jill Valentine, by reading NEMESIS. The book was exactly what I expected.<br />The story is fairly engaging. The plot doesn't just focus on one character, but revolves around several. There are several surprises (if you've never played the game) and lots of action. I also enjoyed the final epilogue about Trent which made the novel that much more enjoyable to read.<br />Great book for Resident Evil fans or anyone interested in reading mindless action/horror adventure.	2003-03-30
1176452:US	52966385	RKQH6536VEUBQ	0802470122	22322800	Palm Tree Manhunt (Sugar Creek Gang Original Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Looking For a Lost Brother.	The Sugar Creek Gang series revolves around a group of young, Christian boys from the northern Midwest who solve crimes and mysteries and end up having all sorts of exciting adventures. The stories are much like the Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew. However, they are told from the perspective of one of the gang's members, Bill Collins. This narrative technique gives the stories a more authentic feel, at the expense of skipped plot details and simplistic descriptions.<br />In this edition of the series, the gang is sent to Palm Tree Island by a benevolent benefactor in Sugar Creek, Old Man Paddler.  Old Man Paddler wants the boys to visit some missionaries on Palm Tree Island and experience a different culture. However, he also wants the boys to secretly look for his long lost twin brother who was last seen on the island over twenty years ago. The gang gets lost in the city, are attacked by a goat, and run into a crazy old man who calls himself John Machette.<br />Readers who enjoy series like the Hardy Boys will probably enjoy this book, as will most young boys. Even though the series was written over thirty years ago, it remains fresh and most young boys will be able to relate to the story's characters, who with their Christian values, provide decent role models.	2003-03-30
1209956:US	52966385	R2BFX8H9EKNWQN	0310704618	31137259	Jonah Even Fish Slappers Need a Second Chance	Books	5	5	6	N	N	It's All About Grace.	Many adults struggle with the acceptance of God's grace and most of those don't even understand it. So, (even though kids probably understand grace better than adults) how does one explain grace to young children? Well, this story based off a part of JONAH does a decent job. It tells about the mean and rotten Ninevites and how God sent Jonah to them to tell them to stop their wicked ways, especially fish slapping. I read this book to the preschool children I teach and they loved it. The illustrations are hilarious and the rhyming of the verses is reminiscent of Dr. Suess. It's a great book illustrating God's grace in a simple way.	2003-03-02
1210356:US	52966385	RRQP4W7JLP5EB	0517221144	179377241	Treasure Island (The Illustrated Children's Library)	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Murder and Mayhem and Maurading Pirates.	This wonderfully crafted edition of Robert Louis Stevenson's classic adventure story is great for any serious reader of classic literature. It's also great for kids. Who can ever forget Jim Hawkins, Long John Silver, or Ben Gunn or the unique bond that forms between the wise youth (Hawkins) and experienced seaman (Silver)? Murder on the high seas. Violent battles on an island full of treasure. People who actually talk the way real people talk. It's all here and more. TREASURE ISLAND is one of my favorite Stevenson stories and I highly reccommend it.	2003-03-01
1210477:US	52966385	R3MI89G9MAOAO9	0060520841	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Illuminating the truth.	There is a liberal bias in the media.  Even my liberal Democrat friends admit this. However, for some reason no one within the major media sees it or is willingly to admit it. After reading Bernard Goldberg's book, one begins to understand why.<br />Goldberg used to work for CBS. He was one of the more intelligent reporters on the Big Eye and I remember some of his segments on &quot;48 Hours&quot;. Dan Rather used to be a close friend of his. That was before Goldberg committed the &quot;unpardonable sin&quot;: he wrote a guest op-ed piece in the WALL STREET JOURNAL that told us what we already knew, that the media was biased. What was different, was that Goldberg was an insider; someone from within the business. For his honesty, Goldberg lost his job.<br />In BIAS, Goldberg explains the events leading up to his writing the WALL STREET JOURNAL piece and his eventual resignation at CBS. Intertwined with that story, are a collection of facts, figures, ancedotes, and stories that illustrate just how the major media are biased and illuminate the hypocrisy that lies within. The book is easy to read and is thought-provoking.<br />Granted, Goldberg does seem to have a grudge against Dan Rather and is still upset at his personal betrayal by the anchor and host he once called friend. Still, setting aside the vindictive tone against Rather and company, BIAS is still an eye opener. I've known for years the media are biased, but I never realized how much so until I read this book. If you don't believe that, just look at the recent Dan Rather interview with Saddam Hussein and you'll see just what Goldberg is talking about.	2003-03-01
1224929:US	52966385	RZNU5LX5XNKEV	1563898586	702953874	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 1	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Comics as Literature.	For those who think that reading comic books are a waste of time and that graphic novels aren't anywhere near real literature, this is one comic you should check out and which maybe even change your mind. The illustrations are amazing, capturing the essence of the time period in which the story takes place. The story is written by the great Alan Moore (what more needs to be said), so the plot is intense; the action fierce; and the characters fully developed. That in itself is enough to purchase this little book. However, besides great illustrations and an excellent story, this graphic novel taught me more about 19th century literature than I ever learned during my four years as an undergraduate English major. I read a great deal and love 19th century literature and history, but I was only able to pick up on about 60% of the references in the story on my own. The rest I had to look up. It was a wonderful educating experience that has opened my eyes to a whole dimension of stories I never knew existed before. Nevertheless, the immense references and allusions should not scare the uneducated reader away. Even if you have never read any 19th century literature and know very little about the period in history, the story is still an excellent read and thoroughly enjoyable. Happy reading.	2003-02-17
1225533:US	52966385	R2XGLHUDZN8E1A	0811823059	637785054	Do You Remember TV?: The Book That Takes You Back	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Blast From the Past.	I wasn't born in the 50s or 60s but I remembered about 3/4th's of the shows, commercials, jingles, names and other stuff found in this book. It was a nice little stroll down memory lane and a refreshing blast from the past. That's basically why this book was created: to give readers (and television viewers) a pleasant jaunt down memory lane in television land.  You won't find much tv trivia here (though there are a few nuggets scattered throughout the pages), but what you will find are a lot of glossy photos, memorable phrases, and a wave of nostalgia. Great gift for any lover of television or student of popular culture.	2003-02-17
1225635:US	52966385	R3KZT36F1RVDIY	0876144741	435454933	A Pocketful of Goobers: A Story about George Washington Carver (Creative Minds Biography) (Creative Minds Biography (Paperback))	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Good Biography About the Peanut Man.	A goober is the old name for peanuts and A POCKETFUL OF GOOBERS is a biography about George Washington Carver, the scientist who made peanuts famous. To be completely honest, I didn't know much about Carver and therefore found this children's book entertaining, educational, and informative. For instance, I learned that Carver was a gifted artist as well as a scientist and that later in life he became good friends with Henry Ford. The biography is written in a simple style that elementary students will find easy to read and Carver's life is so interesting they should find the book interesting.	2003-02-17
1226423:US	52966385	R3NLW1BGS6B2SY	0805070745	598277379	A Galaxy Not So Far Away: Writers and Artists on Twenty-five Years of Star Wars	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not So Long Ago, Pretty Close to Home.	A GALAXY NOT SO FAR AWAY is a collection of essays that attempt to illustrate just how far reaching STAR WARS has impacted and influenced our society and culture. Most of the essays are positive, many are humorous, and several are nostaligiac in their reflections. Some, however are negative and a few are quite thought provoking. I especially enjoyed reading Kevin Smith's &quot;Married to the Force&quot; and Todd Hansen's &quot;A Big Dumb Movie About Space Wizards&quot;.  The two essays that paint the STAR WARS phenomenon in the most negative light &quot;Jedi Uber Alles&quot; and &quot;Anakin, Get Your Gun&quot; are also the two essays that made me pause and think the most. I also enjoyed the essay that illustrated just how STAR WARS has influenced hip-hop music, suggesting that hip-hop wouldn't exist (at least not in it's current form) without STAR WARS.<br />This book is not a collection of essays about &quot;What STAR WARS means to me&quot; (though there are a few of those in here). Instead, it is a book illustrating just how huge and powerful the little space opera that could has influenced our society. This is a great book for most STAR WAR fans or for anyone interested in popular culture.	2003-02-16
1226740:US	52966385	R1HOW2OM13R6EN	0671024396	590581301	The Umbrella Conspiracy (Resident Evil #1)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Page-Turner.	I have as of yet, never played the video game RESIDENT EVIL. However, I plan to do so. The reason I picked up and bought THE UMBRELLA CONSPIRACY was because after watching the RESIDENT EVIL movie my interest in the series was piqued. So, I picked up this book to get a better understanding about the series and video games. I found the book to be rather good; it didn't pretend to be anything more than it was and kept me interested. I read the book in about a days time and am looking forward to reading other books in the series and to playing the video games. There is some element of horror and gore, but the book reads more like an action adventure/mystery than a horror story. A great read for any Resident Evil fan.	2003-02-16
1226852:US	52966385	R3SDS445FMP6U2	B000065V25	216592116	Day Care Days	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kids love it.	This beautifully illustrated book tells about the day in the life in a toddler as he prepares for and goes to day care. The vivid illustrations are full of life and children love looking at them. The story is full of warmth and tenderness. The kids I teach at the preschool I work at love comparing our child care center to the one in the book. This is a great book for any child care center or any family who has or is preparing to use a day care facility.	2003-02-15
1230614:US	52966385	R3E97FM6FXKDCL	0152018034	391712001	Amistad Rising: A Story of Freedom	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Decent Introduction.	Until 1997 and the release of Spielberg's grand film, AMISTAD, I had never heard of the Amistad uprising. That movie, through a mix of fact and fiction, piqued my interest and I began reading and researching all I could about the Amistad. That search led to me learning a great deal more about African-American History than I had ever learned before. In the way the movie piqued my interest, AMISTAD RISING will pique younger student's interest in not only the Amistad, but a host of other subjects as well. The book itself is fairly short and contains some very powerful illustrations. The text skimps on the facts of the Amistad and relies a great deal upon the author's imagination to tell the story of Cinque. Nevertheless, there is enough factual information that children can learn something without becoming bored with the specifics of historical data. This is a wonderful book and children are fascinated by the pictures. Great reading for African-American History Month.	2003-02-12
1233935:US	52966385	R3EFY9I661TRY3	006205080X	515027869	Grown-Ups Get to Do All the Driving	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Laugh at Yourself	Grown-ups take themselves too seriously. It's nice when you discover a book like this which forces you to laugh at yourself and your friends as you see yourselves in the pictures. This book is written like a children's book and kids enjoy reading it (they find many of the pictures funny), but it's probably adults who will find the book most funny and enjoy it the most.	2003-02-10
1234567:US	52966385	R2QW60E76A52SR	0613281225	682233322	Holiday on My Own Valentines D	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From Romans to Romance.	Written in a simple and easy to understand style, this exciting, interesting and fact-filled book explains all about Valentine's Day from it's pagan roots in the Roman's celebration of Lupercus and Juno to Pope Gelasius' selection of February 14th to celebrate Saint Valentine. The book explores Valentine traditions in several countries and tells about the time in U.S. history when Valentine's Day was a holiday of dread; the penny dreadfuls. The illustrations that accompany the text are wonderful, especially the ones that reproduce what valentines have looked like over the centuries. This book is full of information and as an adult I learned some things from reading it. It's the most thorough and informative children's book on Valentine's Day that I have ever read and after reading it to the kids I teach, I know that children enjoy reading it, too.	2003-02-09
1236595:US	52966385	RWKOQ4UGF3ALK	0439297303	330419414	Rain or Shine: All About Weather (Look-Inside)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What's the weather like outside?	This little board book is one that really young children love and introduces them to differernt weather patterns at the same time. There really isn't a story, but the book's colorful pictures follow a family as they enjoy a day at the beach, leave because of a storm, follow them home, and watch the family play at home in the winter. The lift-up flaps are a real plus and kids love flipping those up, especially the one of lightning and the one with the rainbow behind it.	2003-02-08
1236783:US	52966385	R6OOU8WJX2A55	0786888083	61020260	Confessions of a Dangerous Mind: An Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Truth or Fiction	I didn't much like &#34;The Dating Game&#34;, thought &#34;The Newlywed Game&#34; was okay, and have never seen &#34;The Gong Show&#34; so my impressions of Chuck Barris weren't very vivid. However, after discovering he wrote the song &#34;Palisades Park&#34; and reading CONFESSIONS OF A DANGEROUS MIND: AN UNAUTHORIZED AUTOBIOGRAPHY, I have to admit that Chuck Barris is a genius, even if he is the &#34;King of Schlock&#34;.<br /><br />I thought this book would be silly, uninteresting, and perhaps a little quirky. Well, it is quirky, but it's also quite entertaining and interesting. It's hard to say whether the events described in the book or fact or fiction. Barris writes about everything in his life in a very self-defacing, humorous manner (including the events we know are fact) so it's impossible to figure out if the events described are all true, partly true, or just a total yarn. I mean it wouldn't surprise me because the book reads like a cop-off of some of the best mystery/cloak-and-dagger writings around much in the same way that &#34;The Gong Show&#34; was a parody of popular talent search shows. Yet, at the same time, the events are so bizarre and fit so well into known facts, everything really could be true.<br /><br />Anyway. The book is full of sex, violence, and foul language; but other than the language, none of it is very graphic. I mean, it seems early contestants on &#34;The Dating Game&#34; could describe their sexual exploits more graphically than Barris. Nevertheless, the book is thoroughly entertaining and difficult to put down.	2003-02-07
1237343:US	52966385	R1VLAW8UI77TGS	0825434319	851399116	Joy to the World: The Stories Behind Your Favorite Christmas Carols	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Very brief.	I was a little disappointed by this book. The subtitle says &quot;The Stories Behind Your Favorite Christmas Carols&quot;. However, these tales are so short they really aren't stories and are mere ancedotes. There are a few interesting facts one can learn, but for the most part this book is a let down because it doesn't live up to it's title.	2003-02-07
1244204:US	52966385	R3FD9XCV2KF197	1576738175	913999354	The Ishbane Conspiracy	Books	5	16	16	N	N	When the Dark Comes Rising.	This book was recommended to me at a camp I worked at by one of the best camp speakers I have ever heard. He suggested that anyone who had an interest working with youth, should read it. Since I have a heart for youth and will be teaching junior high and high school students in the next few years, I figured I would check it out. I'm glad that I did.<br />The ISHBANE CONSPIRACY looks at the life of teenage and young adults in a very real and  powerful way. It illustrates how the struggles and problems we face in our life pan out on the Hades side of the spiritual world. The book is written with every chapter followed by a letter of demonic correspondence.<br />The book reminded me of a cross between C.S. Lewis' THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS and a Frank Peretti novel. True, there are scenes involving drugs, alcohol, allusions to sex, suicidal thoughts, eating diorders, the occult, large family arguments, and a host of other problems and sins. However, these are issues that people in America (not just teenagers) face on a daily basis. Our fight isn't against the powers of this world, but against evil forces of the unseen spiritual realm. It's great to read a newer book that so forcibly reminds us of that.	2003-02-01
1244479:US	52966385	R3BO48N6Y5PKPA	0590424033	193092012	The Story Of Thomas Alva Edison (Scholastic Biography)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Introduction.	This biography written towards children and young adults works well as an introduction to the life of Thomas Alva Edison. The basic outline of Edison's life is told in simple terms and includes descriptions about the three inventions Edison is most given credit for inventing: the phonograph, electric light, and motion picture. The illustrations are nice and add to the text of the story. Great reading for youth who like to learn.	2003-02-01
1245997:US	52966385	R207KDU3KNVTN8	0192721054	724099371	Squirrels	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Entertaining and Educational.	It doesn't happen often, but on rare occassions I read a book to my preschoolers and I learn something from it.  Such was the case with SQUIRRELS. After reading this delightul book to my students, I learned that squirrels can use their tails as parachutes when jumping from trees and that they also use their tails as sails when on rare occassions, they go swimming. The book not only tells the good things about squirrels, but the bad as well; something that is becoming a rarity in our ecological/politically correct landscape. The illustrations in the book are full of warmth and vigor and soothing colors. This is a great book introducing young children to the curious animal called the squirrel.	2003-01-31
1247298:US	52966385	R1RMEQGS84YAMD	0743424425	966329377	The Shining	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Possessed buildings and mental breakdowns.	Stephen King's THE SHINING is a classic piece of modern day literature.  The story is enthralling and unlike other early King stories, has several layers.  Is the book solely about a hotel possessed by evil spirits?  Or are all the horrifying images merely physical manifestations of what happens to Jack Torrance as he suffers through a total mental and psychotic breakdown?  The answer is both.  The book is thrilling and suspenseful and full of unforgettable images. Of course, it's not for everyone, but if you have never read a King novel, this is one of his \\"horror\\" pieces that I would recommend.	2003-01-30
1249074:US	52966385	R2DFDY1Z6MI121	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Darkness Reborn.	HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE is the fourth installment of the Harry Potter series and (so far) is also the longest and most dark. I had enjoyed the previous three books immensely, but had heard so many conflicting reviews about GOBLET OF FIRE, that I didn't know what to expect. After finally finishing the novel, I found that it was a most intriguing read and has become my favorite in the series so far.<br />The book begins during the summer before the fall term starts at Hogwarts. Harry joins the Weasley family and Hermione for a trip to the World Quiddich Cup.  The tournament is marked by strange events which foreshadow the dark horrors and adventures that lie waiting for Harry and friends back at school.<br />The book builds from the opening, sinister and puzzling chapter to it's conclusion (over 700 pages later) when a line in the sand is drawn and the forces of good unite to stand against the resurrected Lord Voldemort. Whereas the previous three novels seemed self-contained and concluded in themselves, GOBLET OF FIRE ends on a cliffhanger, merely hinting at the huge struggle facing the forces of good. I have a feeling things are only going to become more dark and depressing for Harry and the gang.	2003-01-29
1266227:US	52966385	R2DS4MDCS6AOEN	0896360199	386958577	Teaching Preschoolers: It's Not Exactly Easy but Here Is How to Do It (Accent teacher training series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Useful, But Limited.	This relatively short instructional book is written for people who have never taught preschool children before in a church or Sunday school setting.  It contains many useful thoughts, ideas, and tips; but is limited because it is specifically written towards new, preschool Sunday school/church educators.  The title is rather misleading in that aspect; I thought this would give me some new ideas or advice for the preschool classes I teach on a daily basis. Instead, all I got were a few useful tips and not much else.  Some of the material is a little dated, but the book nevertheless fulfills it's directive for it's intended audience.	2003-01-15
1274783:US	52966385	R2OYUCYS9RCDAE	0679889612	542100291	The Berenstain Bears and the Big Question	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Yes, Little Bear, There is a God.	In this edition to the Berenstain Book series, the Bear Family tackles the big question: &#34;What's God?&#34;. It's a question that all children and even many adults ask. Unfortunately, adults often ignore that question or choose to ignore where it leads them. Fortunately, children are still full of wonder and aren't quite so illogical when it comes to such things. I was happy to see that the Bear family helped Sister Bear learn about God by taking her to a place where she was sure to find an answer: church. Children know there is a God and it's good to know that the Berenstains know that, too.	2003-01-09
1278130:US	52966385	R7OO4SOE7UF73	059048401X	316172362	Science Surprises	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Science Made Easy.	This is a great book containing eleven simple science experiments using mostly common, everyday items that can be found in most homes. The experiments are fun to perform and clearly illustrate and explain such ideas as centrifugal force, momentum, photosynthesis, and air pressure. Spaced between the various experiments are two page lessons describing real life scientific surprises such as Dr. Alexander Fleming's accidental discovery of penicillin. I used this book for experiments with my preschoolers and they really enjoyed it. It also works as a great gift for an elementary student who shows an interest in science.	2003-01-06
1282447:US	52966385	R1Y8IHHVR945AX	0788005715	135062224	Born, One Of Us	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Much Wonder Here.	This rather simple Christmas drama revolves around a family of four on the night of the birth of Jesus. The father, Eliab, is a devout student of the scriptures, but fails to see them fulfilled before his eyes. His wife understands what he can not. Their son, Abner, is thinking of revolting against the Romans and his sister, Miriam, appears too much like an American teenager.<br />The play tries to illuminate some of the wonder of Jesus' birth, but is written in such an ordinary way, that it captures very little excitement at all, let alone any wonder. Nevertheless, for a small cast to perform around Christmas, with not too much work, it works okay.	2003-01-03
1285267:US	52966385	R25R3Z1JGU279T	156292656X	914300477	The Fruit of the Spirit Is Joy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What's the Deal With Joy?	Joy. It's a great fruit of the spirit. Unfortunately, many people mistake happiness for joy and thereby have no understanding of what joy really is. This small book contains various quotations and scripture passage that enliven, explain, and illuminate what joy is. An excellent book to give to someone as a gift.	2003-01-01
1303737:US	52966385	R1CU2DRV6T6B8U	1586602861	944878362	With Deepest Sympathy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Small Consolation.	WITH DEEPEST SYMPATHY is a small and simple book that is written for those who have recently lost a loved one. The book is filled with scripture and various quotes, arranged in such a way to help lift one's spirit and prevent depression from taking a stonghold. I recently gave this book to a close friend of mine who lost a parent and she really enjoyed it.	2002-12-15
1304185:US	52966385	R24LATOPWCHA9Y	1564023206	277470351	The Christmas Miracle of Jonathan Toomey	Books	5	22	22	N	N	It's Delovely.	THE CHRISTMAS MIRACLE OF JONATHAN TOOMEY is a charming book about the nature of patience and grace.  Jonathan Toomey is a very sad and gloomy man. His wife and child died very young and he has never gotten over his grief. Children call him Mr. Gloomy, for they fail to see the beauty beneath.  One day a young widow and her son show up, asking Toomey to make a nativity scence for them, replacing one they lost when they recently moved to town. Mr. Toomey agrees.  His life is forever changed by the act.<br />The book is beautifully illustrated and has become a modern Christmas classic.	2002-12-15
1307291:US	52966385	R3RKAJ5M7J2T83	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Career of a Master Con	CATCH ME IF YOU CAN is the autobiography of master con man, Frank Abagnale. By the time he was 20, he had traveled all over the world; stolen millions of dollars; passed himself off as a Pan Am pilot, a pediatrician, a lawyer, and a sociology professor. Abagnale invented modern fraud and now he works at debunking it.<br /><br />This book was an excellent read. It was quick, entertaining, informative, and slightly fascinating. The author does seem like a chauvinistic pig at the beginning of the book, but keep in mind he was describing himself as he was: a sixteen year old boy who had no ethical and moral system to adhere.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book and have been recommending it to many of my friends. It's one of the most intriguing autobiographies I've read in years.	2002-12-12
1313369:US	52966385	R2308AX5EG22IC	0788012940	787660703	Simple Science Sermons For Big And Little Kids	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Teaching About the Creator.	SIMPLE SCIENCE SERMONS is a wonderful book to use not only for some great children's sermons, but also for some delightful science experiments. The book illustrates how one can use science and turn it into a teachable moment about God and His creation.  The kids at the preschool I taught at loved the \\"A Balloon, A Book, Pressure, And Satan;\\" and did their best as Satan to pop the balloon. My particular favorite was the electric pickle experiment, though I could never get the pickle to light up very well in class. A great book for any educator of children to own.	2002-12-07
1314828:US	52966385	R2Q9QQ408A77NJ	0971388709	933855779	The Mate Map: The Right Tool for Choosing the Right Mate	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Structure and Analysis in Dating.	Just about every book on relationships and dating that have ever been printed, deal with relationships mainly on an emotional level.  Even the ones that don't are often nothing more than a short book of simple common sense sayings.  THE MATE MAP is nothing like that. THE MATE MAP looks at dating and relationships through an almost purely analytical microscope. I say almost, because though the book illustrates how to deconstruct, analyze, and evaluate one's relationships, it leaves enough room for the guide to be &quot;individualized&quot; so that one may customize this &quot;mate-selection process&quot;.<br />THE MATE MAP allows a person to evaluate their relationships in much the same way a CEO or manager would evaluate their business. The only difference being that the business people have a bottom line of money and the bottom line in relationships, according to the author, is one's own happiness and satisfaction.<br />This approach may seem cold and cruel to some becauase it does take away much if not all of the romance involved in an intimate relationship. I am a romantic myself. Nevertheless, I cannot deny that if more people followed some sort of structure like the one set forth in THE MATE MAP instead of just flinging themselves into their romantic feelings; many relationships would be improved, divorce rates would drop, and there would be a lot more happy people in the world.	2002-12-06
1322552:US	52966385	R1ZK9V4FGOGLLG	0698303458	115336026	The Summerfolk.	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Thick as sand flees and twice as pesky.	In this beautifully black and white illustrated romp, a young boy escapes to the swamp and his ailing boat on the longest day of the year to avoid the summerfolk that swarm the beautiful sea and sandy beaches. He runs into some summerfolk in the swamp, too, but they are unlike any he has ever seen before.  A magical spell seems to be cast as the boy sets out on an adventure and learns that there are summerfolk and there are summer folk.This is an enchanting tale and the illustrations are marvelous. Most of the children I have read the book to, have enjoyed it. However, I must admit that as a kid, I hated this book. I thought it was boring. That's the reason for the 4 stars instead of 5.	2002-11-30
1331819:US	52966385	R3RF6B32VTE20C	0736420096	783087223	Steamboat Willie (Picture Book)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Disney and Kids.	The classic cartoon that began the Walt Disney Company is now available as a children's book. All the wonderful scenes from that cartoon short are found here. However, much is lost because STEAMBOAT WILLIE is connected to sound and in a book there is no sound. Also, the cartoon doesn't make a very good children's book. Still, it is STEAMBOAT WILLIE and it's a nice piece of literature to introduce anyone to the cartoon that made Mickey a star.	2002-11-21
1332148:US	52966385	RB6BANL868RGR	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Phantom Pulp.	Ah, Christian Pulp Fiction. It had been nearly two years since I last left off reading this series. I really hadn't missed much. SOUL HARVEST starts off where NICOLAE ended. The world is in utter chaos as a worldwide earthquake has devastated the entire globe. Buck and Rayford spend most of the book pulling James Bond type stunts in attempts to find their missing wives. Tsion Ben Judah is preaching to the world via the internet and Carpathia, even though he is supposed to be the Antichrist, seems clueless a lot of the time. The worldwide catastrophes that plague the Earth are skimmed over as they happen or are referred to in passing.<br />I was looking forward to reading this after NICOLAE. However, I'm afraid the series peaked with that book. You know how things are going to end and I'm afraid the authors aren't going to explain much about how the planet gets there. Still, SOUL HARVEST is better than TRIBULATION FORCE. Not too bad Christian pulp fiction.	2002-11-21
1334091:US	52966385	R1JNOTF0LUP4J8	1571020446	421671895	How Do Airplanes Fly?: A Book about Airplanes (Discovery Readers)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Wonderful Men and Their Flying Machines	HOW DO AIRPLANES FLY? is a book that attempts to answer some of the questions children have concerning flight. It is written in a simple matter and is wonderfully illustrated. The book gives a simple explanation of how airplanes fly, provides a brief history of flight, and introduces new vocabulary words children may not have heard before. I used this book as part of a science unit I taught my preschoolers about airplanes in 2001. Adults should understand that this book is written in very simple terms; it's supposed to be for pre-school age children and K-1st grade students. It does NOT provide a complete picture of how flying machines operate and attempts to explain difficult concepts in ways that very young children will understand. In doing so leaves out some very important concepts for modern flight. If you want a book that gives a more complete understanding of how airplanes fly, you need a different book.	2002-11-20
1334124:US	52966385	RFCDVX27QJ27L	0312242646	427787085	If Chins Could Kill: Confessions of a B Movie Actor	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Truth About Tinsletown.	Bruce Campbell is a really funny actor. He's also more talented than many people give him credit for. He's also a normal guy with a great sense of humor who hasn't lost himself in the land of &quot;spores&quot;. His book is worth reading for all that alone.<br />However, it's also full of great stories about growing up near Detroit, that involve not only Bruce, but Sam Raimi and company, too. The book also tells how three total unknowns were able to make one of the most successful horror movies of all time and parlay it's success into careers in Hollywood. Of course, since they all moved out to the City of Angels, there's a lot of dirt on the movie business--glaring flaws and all.<br />This book is hilarious, insightful, informative, and highly engaging. It's great for any Bruce Campbell fan; anyone who has any interest in movies; or any Deadite. It also makes a great introduction for people who don't have a clue how to make a movie, but want or should learn how.	2002-11-19
1336419:US	52966385	R28WJOPXHX1HBN	0486415376	123945049	The Story of the Amistad	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Making History Interesting For Kids.	Until the movie AMISTAD was released five years ago, most Americans had never heard of the famed slave ship that caused such a ruckus and illustrated to the world how fractured the United States was on the issue of slavery. Taking it's cue from the movie, this book had it's named changed from THE LONG BLACK SCHOONER to THE STORY OF THE AMISTAD.<br />The book tells the story surrounding the Amistad. However, it is told in a way that is appealing to both youth and adults. The language is simple and the story is straightforward. There is no historical gobbly-gook here.<br />I found the book to be rather interesting, quite informative, and fairly easy to read (I read it in less than two days). It makes a great gift for any young history buff or anyone who is interesting in learning more about the Amistad but who hasn't studied much history.	2002-11-18
1346728:US	52966385	R1FCVUM1AVK8LC	0671510118	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Enriched Classics Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Significant as Ever	The majority of reviews for Hawthorne's classic, THE SCARLET LETTER, here at Amazon.com have been negative. Many of the people writing the reviews appear not to have read much classic literature. To give them credit, I don't know why this novel is forced upon young minds and influential minds. This book is not meant for the close-minded. Having lived a life as shallow as most Americans do today, it would be hard to appreciate the genius of Hawthorne's masterpiece.<br /><br />THE SCARLET LETTER remains as significant today as it did when it was first published. The book, though full of symbolism, is much more than a simple morality tale. It is a tale of passion and lust, truth and lies, life and death, revenge and betrayal. The story illustrates the disasters of living a dishonest and sin-filled life. It serves as a historical text in to an age that has passed away and it gave us one of the first truly feminist characters in American literature. The story remains prevalent because it speaks on so many different levels, illuminating a little of each person as they read.<br /><br />Therefore, do not be discouraged by the large vocabulary and do not let one's inexperience in life and literature dissuade you from reading one of the great pieces of American literature.<br /><br />As a footnote, the WSP Enriched Classic edition of the novel includes a wonderful introduction, pictures, critical excerpts, notes of Hawthorne's, and a few other extras that make this a superb copy to own.	2002-11-09
1349254:US	52966385	R3L8RU0A3FC5Q3	0786884770	375275290	What They Don't Teach You at Film School: 161 Strategies For Making Your Own Movies No Matter What	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Eat Your Heart Out Kubrick	Instead of being a how-to book on making movies, WHAT THEY DON'T TEACH YOU AT FILM SCHOOL is a book that provides all sorts of useful and practical information that people might not know or think about when they start or have started making a movie. A great gift for any film student or any film fanatic.	2002-11-06
1352924:US	52966385	R2BG4GWE223YTF	0140482121	473017110	Crimes of the Heart (Plays, Penguin)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Understanding Women	CRIMES OF THE HEART tells the story of three sisters reuniting together after the youngest of the trio (Babe) shoots her husband and is on the verge of being sent to prison. The story takes place deep in the south in Hazlehurst, Mississippi.<br /><br />The writing in this play is superb. It captures the spirit of each of the young women splendidly. However, moving as the story is, it isn't quite poetical and thereby misses perfection.<br /><br />Nevertheless, CRIMES OF THE HEART is an enjoyable piece of theatre displaying the daffy complexity of women seen through the lives of three sisters.	2002-11-03
1355962:US	52966385	RJM9COD5J3BC4	0824953118	379724963	Telephones, Televisions, and Toilets: How They Work-And What Can Go Wrong (Discovery Readers)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Three Things That Start With "T".	This book gives an easy-to-understand explanation of how telephones, televisions, and toliets work. The book is written for children, but adults can benefit from reading this book as well (I often understand a subject better by reading a \\"children's\\" book on the subject). The book contains some cartoonish illustrations that make the explantions less dry and there are also several diagrams that make the technical knowledge much easier to understand. The three subjects in the book not only all start with the letter \\"t\\", but they also all function in a cyclical fashion. This is a great science book for young kids and is sure to spark some sort of interest into technology in a youngster's mind.	2002-10-31
1357006:US	52966385	R2N7GXQHD8FRNE	1571740422	437875880	Mary Summer Rain on Dreams: A Quick-Reference Guide to over 14,500 Dream Symbols	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Reference on Dream Interpertation.	Even though I realize that sometimes it's useful, I'm not really big on dream interpertation. Many times we have dreams and they don't mean anything other than we have a vivid imagination. Other times, we have dreams and we just know they mean something. Sometimes I've flipped through &quot;dream books&quot; in an attempt to figure out if it really meant anything. Now, I wouldn't take everything Mary Summer Rain says for truth, but I have to admit that this &quot;dream book&quot; of hers is a handy little reference and is much easier to understand than other texts I have referenced. It also seems to make sense.	2002-10-31
1358795:US	52966385	R37HY4N9QP46NM	0786862246	292005426	Out There	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Illustrating the Lyrics.	This small book contains the lyrics for \\"Out There\\" from Disney's THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME accompanied by illustrations and artwork from the film. Some of the pictures are spectacular. Even though I hated what Disney did to the story of Quasimodo and company, I did enjoy the movie and I love the music from the film. \\"Out There\\" is one of my favorite two songs from that movie and I am glad to own a copy of this small book. This is a great present for any fan of Disney's HUNCHBACK, any Disney freak, or a book to read to children.	2002-10-29
1371438:US	52966385	R1TXGUZMXI05J2	0590464639	531103244	The Biggest Pumpkin Ever	Books	5	4	4	N	N	So Happy Together	Two mice, one a house mouse who works in the day and the other a field mouse who works at night, take care of the same pumpkin, not knowing about the other caretaker. The house mouse wants the pumpkin to win a contest and the field mouse wants to have the biggest jack-o-lantern ever. Children love listening to this book. It is a great story that has some wonderful illustrations, contains a message about sharing, and gives some useful techniques about growing pumpkins.	2002-10-19
1374969:US	52966385	R1QTF996FGYQJF	068984607X	241758695	It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It's a Happy Classic!	Even though this 35th Anniversary Edition is illustrated by someone else, it's essentially the same story book that appeared years ago. True, the story has been trimmed down some. But most of the elements are still there: Linus' desperate hoping, Charlie Brown's holey costume, Lucy putting her brother to bed. The illustrations look almost identical to the drawings of the beloved Schulz and if it weren't for the fact that Paige Braddock's name appears on the title page, one wouldn't be able to tell the difference. Besides, this is a great &#34;Peanuts&#34; story and one of the best Halloween stories around.	2002-10-16
1375767:US	52966385	RVUHZBXS7PJ8H	0721452671	683901737	Little Boy Soup/Ages 5-7	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Story.	A little boy takes a walk through the woods. He becomes thirsty and sees a little wooden house. He stops at the house to ask for a glass of water. The little old lady lets him in, but the woman isn't just any old lady. She's the Wicked Witch of the Woods! The Witch has the little boy help her prepare her famous \\"little boy soup\\" and the boy needs to think fast to escape.<br />The kids at the day care I taught at loved this book. I read it seven times within a two hour setting. I never got tired of reading it, though. It's a great story with a delightful ending. In some ways, it reminded me of the classic Rumplestiltskin fairy tale.	2002-10-15
1376047:US	52966385	R1QQ9LCRWPP0KC	0590439049	695525945	All Tutus Should Be Pink (Hello Reader, Level 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More Than You Expect.	This easy-to-read and easy-to-understand book contains more than meets the eye. What appears to be a silly book about girls wanting to wear their pink tutus everywhere, is really a book about friendship that also illustrates how difficult dancing can be. The girls I taught in pre-school loved this book and of course, the boys acted like they hated it. However, some of the kids seemed to pick up on the books message of friendship, whether displaying it by emulating the characters in the book are agreeing in disgust at the story. It's a charming book with a good message that's nice to read every once in awhile to break up the usual male dominated stories.	2002-10-15
1376201:US	52966385	R30F0Y9IENIWEV	0822200651	99077832	Arsenic and Old Lace - Acting Edition	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Two Aunts, Theodore Roosevelt, and Poison.	ARSENIC AND OLD LACE is one of the classics of American theatre. It's a fast-paced play that has some great witty dialogue and unforgettable scenes. The play was made famous by the Frank Capra directed movie starring Cary Grant and has been a staple of community theatres across the USA since then.<br />Though there is a lead character here (Mortimer) the show is really carried by the supporting cast; e.g. it doesn't work without a Teddy who actually believes he's Theodore Roosevelt.<br />There are some plays that most people find boring to read. ARSENIC AND OLD LACE isn't one of them and I recommend it to anyone.	2002-10-15
1378181:US	52966385	R2J4Q5R9PIXP3M	0736412743	438910594	Boo on the Loose! (Step-Into-Reading, Step 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I Love you, Boo.	This story features characters from the movie MONSTERS, INC. Sulley is the top Scarer at the Scare Factor in the monster world. However, he finds his job in jeopardy when he finds a little human girl, Boo on the Scare Floor. Sulley doesn't know what to do and hurries home to consult his good friend Mike. Mike comes up with a plan to get rid of the girl and what follows is lots of laughter and chaos.<br />Many children are familiar with the movie and if they are they will enjoy reading this book. However, even if they are not, the book is a self-contained unit and with characters like Sulley, Mike, and Boo, they will probably enjoy reading it anyway. Since the story contains monsters, it's a nice tale to read at Halloween.	2002-10-13
1378936:US	52966385	R3JRQNID8Q6P0R	0590103156	914794079	Rabbi and the Twenty Nine Witches	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Story.	Every full moon a town is plagued by twenty-nine witches. However, when it rains the witches never appear. The older people in the town want to see a full moon before they die and they approach a rabbi to seek help.<br />This is a wonderful story. It reminded me of many of the old \\"So-and-so\\" versus the Devil stories (e.g. The Devil and Daniel Webster) prominent in early American  and  American folk literature. It does have one horrendous event, but ends happily.	2002-10-12
1379280:US	52966385	R1Y02QL2NI6ZYC	0439169585	669380182	Woo!: The Not So Scary Ghost	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Woo 'vs' Casper.	Woo is a little ghost who gets tired of having his parents tell him what to do over and over. So, during the day (when he is supposed to be sleeping) Woo sneaks out of the house into the daylight and gets into a whole mess of trouble. Woo soon discovers that being a ghost in the day, is very dangerous and that maybe his parents knew what they were talking about all along.<br />WOO! THE NOT SO SCARY GHOST is hilarious! Children love this book, but I like it, too. Just seeing Woo being pulled on by a dog and being washed in a washing machine and being ironed cracked me up. Now, everybody go Woo.	2002-10-12
1393620:US	52966385	R18WK7QEW34IKS	0785739742	959740552	The Berenstain Bears And The Green-Eyed Monster (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (First Time Books)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Envy.	It's Brother Bear's birthday and he's gotten all sorts of cool presents. Sister Bear is unaffected by Brother's good fortune. Until Mama and Papa bring out their gift: a brand new green bicycle. Sister turns green in a fit of envy. Mama talks to her about being careful around the \\"green-eyed monster\\", but Sister doesn't seem to listen.This story isn't as interesting as some of the Berenstain Bears books. I think part of the reason is that the plot takes place in a 24-hour period. However, the book has a great message and kids love looking at the ugly green bike that causes all the problems.	2002-09-29
1393877:US	52966385	R1KIHRGOPEMXTY	0822200880	36017170	Bad Seed	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Surprise Twist in the Nature of Evil.	Maxwell Anderson's stage adaptation of William March's famous horror novel isn't quite as engulfing as March's novel. Still it is intriguing, fairly faithful to the source, and packs a whollop at the end.<br />The plot seems rather simple. Little Rhoda is the perfect little girl. Everything about her is perfect, from her hair to her clothes to her grades in school. Then one day, one of Rhoda's classmates mysteriously dies during a school picinic. Rhoda seems unaffected by the whole situation and acts as though the child deserved to die. When Rhoda's mother, Chrisitne, finds a missing medal worn by the dead boy on the day of his death in Rhoda's treasure chest, she begins to think that both she and Rhoda may not be quite who they think they are.<br />Psychology doesn't always do very well on stage. In fact, most psychological plays are terrible because there is too much talk and jargon and not enough action. Surpisingly,  Anderson's drama isn't like that. It discusses the core psychological issues of March's novel, but without dragging the reader or audience in a bunch of psycho-babble that makes no sense. Intriguing.	2002-09-29
1393918:US	52966385	R2OK6DUFQ8QBCL	0385720947	814999195	Living a Life that Matters	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Warm and Fuzzy	I wasn't quite sure what to expect from Rabbi Harrold Kushner's LIVING A LIFE THAT MATTERS. It had an interesting title; one that suggests a deep message, and I had heard good things about the book in reviews. I have to admit, I was a little disappointed.<br /><br />Being a Christian, I knew that there would be some things that I would not agree with Rabbi Kushner in his book. I was surprised to find how many things I did not agree. For starters, Kushner uses the story of Jacob wrestling with an angel throughout his book. I have no fault there. However, Kushner views the story in a total non-literal point of view; suggesting that Jacob didn't actually wrestle with the Angel of the Lord, but instead just had a struggle with his conscience. He doesn't consider or suggest once that maybe Jacob actually, literally wrestled with the Angel of the Lord.<br /><br />The book also talks alot about duality, the duality between one's \\"regular\\" or \\"commercial\\" life and one's \\"spirtual\\" life. Kushner ignores the idea that there is no difference between the \\"two\\" lives; that they are both one and the same. Reading these parts in the book I was reminded of the Apostle John and how much of his writing and preaching was aimed at eliminating the dangerous duality of Gnosticism.<br /><br />Finally, this is a warm and fuzzy book. It is not challenging in any way. It stirs very little emotion and presents God as a grey-beard man sitting on His throne who only mixes with His people when necessary. The book suggests that even though Rabbi Kushner is a Jew, Judaism isn't the only religion that will lead one to Heaven (a view that contrasts with what God spoke to the prophets). The book ends on a note of feel good happiness and universalism. Though those things in themselves are not bad, they are dangerous when discussing matters of eternal importance.<br /><br />Overall, what disturbed me the most about LIVING A LIFE THAT MATTERS is that it lacked emotion. There was no passion. I don't mind reading a book and disagreeing with what the author writes. In fact, I enjoy that. It makes us better readers, thinkers, and people. However, when an author presents a viewpoint and is very politically correct about the whole thing and shows no passion or emotion, fearful someone may become upset with what has been written, it irritates me. Have the courage of your convictions.reading a book and disagreeing with what the author writes. In fact, I enjoy that. It makes us better readers, thinkers, and people. However, when an author presents a viewpoint and is very politically correct about the whole thing and shows no passion or emotion, fearful someone may become upset with what has been written, it irritates me. Have the courage of your convictions.	2002-09-29
1401451:US	52966385	R1YKQSZOJFVLNG	0307161080	882666526	Best Balloon Ride Ever! (Little Golden Storybook)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Ride Across the Water.	In this story, Huckle the Cat and Lowly the Worm of Busytown accidently get swept away in a hot air balloon after it's pilot leaves the basket to get their picinic lunch. The duo fly across the lake and  almost crash into the water below, but are saved by some quick thinking. There is a subplot involving the Three Beggars and at the end everyone is alright and for the better.<br />Richard Scarry's illustrations are a delight to look at with any child. This book is especially fun to read with children interested in flying.	2002-09-22
1407807:US	52966385	R3JRS2RJPVP2HN	0307995089	296353263	I Love You, Daddy (Little Golden Book)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Letter to Good Old Dad.	This delightful little book puts into words why children love their Dad. I gave this book to my father as a birthday gift and it delivered a message of love much more eloquently than any Hallmark card.	2002-09-16
1407903:US	52966385	R36FPBWWSNA6VV	0394873386	38107072	The Berenstain Bears Go Out for the Team	Books	3	7	10	N	N	No Morals Here.	One of the things that distinguish the Berenstain Bears books from many other children's series is that the books almost always contain a moral lesson. Sometimes the lesson is big, sometimes it is small. However, those lessons are usually there.<br />Except in THE BERENSTAIN BEARS GO OUT FOR THE TEAM, there is no moral platitude. It's just a story. Brother and Sister Bear love playing baseball and end up trying out for a regular league baseball team. That's about it. It's a nice little story and kids who are trying out for a team may enjoy reading it because it illustrates that being nervous is common to all. Other than that though, it's just a nice story.	2002-09-15
1408981:US	52966385	R2BMXHOAMGH1KD	1563891557	219740683	Batman: Ten Nights of the Beast	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Batman in the Cold War	Tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union were high, right up to 1989, when freedom rang throughout all of Europe and the Iron Curtain came crumbling down. The edgy suspense of the times were incorporated in comics and Batman lore, giving rise to the KGBeast. The KGBeast is the complete antithesis of Batman, instead of an armed detective who works to save lives, the Beast is an armed detective who works to take lives. He was the best assassin the KGB ever produced, but like many experiments, something went wrong and he began taking things into his own hands. Nothing seems able to prevent him from knocking off his hit list one by one and the last name on the list, is the President of the United States. Only, the Beast never expected for a Bat to fly in his way. Interesting story, somewhat dated because of the Cold War theme, yet that's also what makes it so intriguing.	2002-09-14
1409402:US	52966385	R1XKTWWIF4VO6P	0394886690	955754944	The Titanic: Lost and Found (Step-Into-Reading, Step 4)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Beginnings and Endings.	This wonderful children's book explains the history of the ill-fated ship, from the beginning of its maiden voyage in England to the discovery of the boat at the bottom of the ocean depths by Dr. Robert Ballard. The illustrations are lively and vibrant, giving depth to the easy to understand, yet enchanting text. I have read several children's books about the Titanic and this one seems to have the best of everything.	2002-09-14
1409431:US	52966385	R2RVTSDHE8QCE9	0930289447	369085513	Batman: A Death in the Family	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Pain of the Bat.	A DEATH IN THE FAMILY is a decent story that follows the events that lead to the death of the 2nd Robin, Jason Tood; his death; and the immediate aftershocks. The story isn't too bad, but does contain a few plot holes which are overlooked by the very strong ending. For the most part the art is average, though there are a few scenes that stick in one's mind long after the book has been put down.The comic became one of the most famous Batman comics of all time for three reasons. One, readers decided the fate of story. Two, a major character was killed off; something that was quite rare in the DC universe up to that point. Finally, the death of Jason Todd effects Batman even to the present day; he has become haunted by his death almost as much as he has been haunted by the death of his parents.As a side note, this comic first appeared in the middle 1980's when tensions between the U.S. and Lebanon were still quite hostile (they still had some American hostages) and that tension forms the background of the comic.	2002-09-14
1409581:US	52966385	R2SSW2SCPXM74M	0679808485	451405874	The Berenstain Bears' Trouble with Pets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Learning About Pets.	Every child wants a pet at least once in their lifetime. Most of the time it's because they think animals are cute and they never really take time to understand all that goes into taking care of an animal. In THE BERENSTAIN BEARS' TROUBLE WITH PETS, Brother and Sister Bear want a pet of their own after caring for an injured bird for a week. Soon after they select a puppy from Farmer Ben's new litter. It takes a few weeks before the cubs can take the dog home, so in the meantime they read up on a book about puppy care. When they finally get the dog, the have to get him a license, leash, and shots. Then there are all the things that go along with taking care of a dog, including cleaning up the nasty accidents. The puppy grows into a big pup, and becomes too big for the house and has to be moved outside. The Bear family loves her very much and she becomes another member of the family.<br />Children rarely consider all that accompanies raising a pet, from the shots to cleaning up \\"accidents\\" to the fact that some animals grow so much they are no longer able to live inside one's home (they are just too big). This book introduces many things that children may not think about on their own and therefore is a great read for any kids that maybe wanting a pet of their own.	2002-09-14
1410914:US	52966385	R1UQ1TLRT6T8TH	1401207529	704287989	Batman: Year One	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Origins of the Bat	After deconstructing Batman in THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS and changing the way comics are written in the process, Frank Miller tackled the history of Batman by examining Bruce Wayne's first year as Batman in BATMAN: YEAR ONE. Personally, I enjoyed this novel much more than DKR. Gotham is a gritty place, full of corruption and slime. However, it is redeemable. Lieutenant Gordan (not yet the commissioner) and the new vigillante Batman illustrate that through the work they accomplish. However, though Gordan and Bruce Wayne are heroes, B:Y1 points out that they are only humans too: Gordan has an affair with another officer during his wife's pregnancy and Wayne is almost killed in his first attempt at crime fighting. The book is full of emotion and character and much more humanity than some of Miller's other work, and it makes for great reading.	2002-09-12
1410941:US	52966385	R200YL8F9NM7FH	0590745867	982487642	The Girl Who Cried Monster (Goosebumps Presents TV Episode #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Things Aren't Always What They Seem	Lucy is a young girl who is obsessed with monsters. She likes scaring her younger brother by telling him monster stories and she enjoys reading books about monsters. Then one evening while returning to the library to pick up some forgotten rollerblades, she discovers that the librarian, Mr. Mortman, really is a monster. The only problem is that no one will believe her and Mr. Mortman wants to eat Lucy for dessert. This book is based off the first episode of the Goosebumps television show and contains several pictures from the show. It's short, easy reading, with a surprise ending sure to fill the imagination.	2002-09-12
1411317:US	52966385	R1PQ7RL7HJ36D0	1557045232	320328717	Our Mission and Our Moment: President George W. Bush's Address to the Nation Before a Joint Session of Congress, September 20, 2001	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For Such a Time As This	On September 10, 2001 the United States was still a country severely divided by a confusing cultural war illustrated so vividly just nine months earlier when the country voted down the middle in the presidential elections. Some were still bitter about how things had turned out and were blaming President George W. Bush for the sour turn the economy was taking.<br />The petty bickering stopped for awhile on September 11, 2001. For the first time in a long time, the nation united. It was a horrible day, yet at the same time it was a day of honor and glory. Heroes are fashioned over time by the simple things they do in life, it's just that most people fail to see them as such. But when adversity strikes, the heroes that are always among us rise to the occassion doing what they have always done, the only difference being that it is on a stage much larger than they are used to performing upon with all eyes fixed upon them.<br />On September 11, 2001 President George W. Bush stood the ground and did what needed to be done. The whole world had seemed to change, but he was still the man he had always been. It was just that people began to see him in a different light, as a leader far more capable of the task set before him than many people, days earlier, would have supposed. Nine days later, he addressed the nation and parts of his speech that night remain in the hearts of all Americans. Presidents makes speeches all the time, but it is very rare that a president makes a speech that plants itself in history: Lincoln's Gettysburg Address; FDR's Day of Infamy; Kennedy's ask what you can do for your country; Reagan's address in Berlin to tear down the wall. On September 20, 2001 President George W. Bush's Our Mission and Our Moment joined those hallowed ranks. The words became embedded in all our hearts. They are a firm reminder of how great our country is, of the difficulties that lie ahead, and of the hope we can all claim as Americans. \\"In all that lies before us, may God grant us wisdom, and may He watch over the United States of America.\\"ant us wisdom, and may He watch over the United States of America.\\"	2002-09-12
1411428:US	52966385	RA5M4YF15NTJ2	0679808477	878349280	The Berenstain Bears and the Prize Pumpkin	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Enough Thanks or Substance	Sandwiched between the mass marketing of Halloween and Christmas, Thanksgiving is often looked upon as being nothing more than the day Christmas shopping begins. The whole reason behind Thanksgiving (taking one day out of the year to give thanks to God for all the blessing we have in our lives), just like Christmas, Halloween, and most other holidays is often lost in the superficialities of the day, e.g. parades and football games.<br /><br />Those petty events are summed up in THE BERENSTAIN BEARS AND THE PRIZE PUMPKIN as Papa Bear gets caught up in growing the biggest pumpkin in Bear Country for a pumpkin contest the weekend before Thanksgiving. In the process, Papa totally forgets the true meaning of the holiday, but is reminded at the end by Mama and Sister Bear.<br /><br />The book is a nice little story. However, for a book about Thanksgiving, it doesn't talk about giving thanks enough.	2002-09-12
1412009:US	52966385	R30P0Y4GAZQGUI	0590568752	989128179	The Abominable Snowman of Pasadena (Goosebumps, No 38)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Story, But No Goosebumps.	Unlike the first several books in the series and many of the books that were to come in the Goosebumps 2000 series, this book really wasn't very spooky or scary. Jordan and his sister Nicole get to go to Alaska with their Dad because he has been paid to photograph an Abominable Snowman. Jordan and his sister are besides themselves because they have never seen snow and now they are going to be able to see it for the first time. However, while staying in a cabin in the frozen northern wilderness, the family's guide takes off with all the family's food and supplies while the Dad is taking some pictures of a frozen stream. The kids chase the guide, but end up getting lost and fall into the lair of the Abominable Snowman.<br />The story flows together really smoothly and there aren't any plotholes. There are a few things that don't make too much sense, however. And the story is not scary at all, leaving me without any goosebumps. Still it's a good story and makes for a decent read. Not R.L. Stine's greatest, but not too shabby, either.	2002-09-11
1412235:US	52966385	R28YW22GLMNN9X	0394848357	323495091	The Berenstain Bears Go to the Doctor (First Time Books)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Not All Doctors Are Bad.	Most children are afraid of going to the doctor (well a lot of adults are, too, but for completely different reasons). When the word doctor is mentioned to kids images of needles, blood, bandages, and strange looking objects come to mind. Reading THE BERENSTAIN BEARS GO TO THE DOCTOR may help relieve some of the fears that children have when they know they are going to the doctor.<br />In the story, Brother and Sister Bear have to go to Dr. Gert Grizzly to have a checkup. Brother isn't too bothered by the whole thing, but Sister is a bit worried. The next day Sister is able to help out some frightened younger cubs while she is in the waiting room and sets an example for all the children to follow.<br />Overall, a delightful little book that helps relieve children's fears of going to the doctor and gives them a broader perspective about life.	2002-09-11
1412248:US	52966385	R15W7E8R6I83R6	1565076311	163536694	How to Study the Bible for Yourself	Books	3	102	109	N	N	Full of Helpful Information for Beginning Christians.	HOW TO STUDY THE BIBLE FOR YOURSELF is a great book to read if you have never studied the Bible, if you feel that you're not getting much out of reading the Bible, or for someone who is a new or fairly recent convert to Christianity. The book is full of useful information that if you've never heard it or put it into practice before could be of great use to one's spiritual life. It includes guides to how to read the Bible in a year, different ways of reading the Bible, how to keep a prayer journal, memorizing scripture, etc.<br /><br />However, a lot of the information contained within this book will prove valuable only if you are someone who is a new Christian or if you are someone who may have been a Christian for awhile, but have made a renewed dedication to Jesus. I was forced to read this book as part of training for a job I had a Christian institution. I was bored out of my mind. Everything that the author wrote were things that I had heard countless times and had been practicing of my own accord for several years. Not only that, but I was a bit taken back by the author's condescending tone. For instance, several times the author says something to the effect that 'You do not have to do things this way, but I have found over my many years of training that this way is the best way that works for almost everyone; if you don't do things this way there maybe something wrong with your spiritual life.' Not only that, but the author makes several references to other books he has written. I felt like I was reading something by the Walt Disney company trying to mass market their products through every avenue possible; the author's self-promotion just didn't seem right for a book aimed at trying to help people study the Bible.<br /><br />One final point of criticism, the author makes hardly any mention of prayer. In fact towards the end of the book LayHaye says, \\"Personally I think it is more important to read, memorize, and study the Bible than to pray, for it is more important for God to talk to us than for us to talk to Him. We certainly are not going to tell Him anything He does not know, but he Has much in His Word that He wants us to learn.\\" The book then goes into a page explantation citing that it is important to pray and gives an example of how to pray. Out of all the other criticisms of the book--the condescending tone and the shameless self-promotion--the lack of emphasis of prayer is the most disturbing. Prayer and study of the Bible go hand in hand; you really cannot have one without the other; they are like the two feet we stand upon, cut one away and we lose our balance and fall. One of the biggest differences that separates Christianity from all other religions is that Christianity isn't about a set of rules to follow, it's about relationship; our relationship to God and in turn how that relationship affects our relationships with all other people. Prayer is one of the most vital parts of that relationship (\\"Pray without ceasing\\") and to barely mention it in a book on studying the Bible is a major mistake.<br /><br />Therefore, though this book is a great tool for new Christians, it won't be of much use to more mature believers. Also, keep in mind that though LaHaye hardly mentions prayer, prayer happens concurrently when studying the Bible.to talk to us than for us to talk to Him. We certainly are not going to tell Him anything He does not know, but he Has much in His Word that He wants us to learn.\\" The book then goes into a page explantation citing that it is important to pray and gives an example of how to pray. Out of all the other criticisms of the book--the condescending tone and the shameless self-promotion--the lack of emphasis of prayer is the most disturbing. Prayer and study of the Bible go hand in hand; you really cannot have one without the other; they are like the two feet we stand upon, cut one away and we lose our balance and fall. One of the biggest differences that separates Christianity from all other religions is that Christianity isn't about a set of rules to follow, it's about relationship; our relationship to God and in turn how that relationship affects our relationships with all other people. Prayer is one of the most vital parts of that relationship (\\"Pray without ceasing\\") and to barely mention it in a book on studying the Bible is a major mistake.     Therefore, though this book is a great tool for new Christians, it won't be of much use to more mature believers. Also, keep in mind that though LaHaye hardly mentions prayer, prayer happens concurrently when studying the Bible.	2002-09-11
1412713:US	52966385	RWG48D4JMC90W	1563893150	887239526	Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	The Last Days of Superman.	Even people who have never read a comic book have heard of the Death of Superman series where Superman fights Doomsday and wins, but dies and of course, several months later, is brought back to life. However, few have heard of this \\"death of Superman\\" story. This is the story of the Superman that no longer existed after Crisis; this is the story of the original Superman, the Man of Tomorrow and how he died. The illustrations are a par above the norm and contain within them the melancholy of the tale. The writing is superb, carrying with it a ton of emotion that swells and builds until the unexpected conclusion at the end. Many characters are brought into play and all loose ends are tied up. It's a great story and a fitting final tribute to the original Superman.	2002-09-11
1415340:US	52966385	R1FRHZMR64Z5JY	0394873408	594653071	The Berenstain Bears and the Bad Habit	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Hard To Break.	Bad habits are hard to break is a lesson that many adults don't even know very well. Most young children don't even have a clue what a habit is, let alone know the difference between a bad habit and a good one. This edition of The Berenstain Bears not only explains what a habit is, it also illustrates the difference between good and bad habits, and offers a helpful way how possibly to break a bad habit youngsters may have.	2002-09-08
1415349:US	52966385	R2ZM2RX6J5VCDX	0689821182	570737689	Ghosts of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touring the Century with Al.	A boy named Josh is on a field trip to a history museum with his class when he runs into a statue of Albert Einstein. Except, the statue isn't a statue and is the real deal. Einstein takes Josh on a spree through the past century beginning in 1903 with the Wright Brothers flight at Kitty Hawk and ending on January 1, 2000 at a millenium celebration. The book encompasses all sorts of historical events and empasizes how the \\"ghosts of the past\\" haunt the future. The illustrations are breathtaking and there are so many tiny drawings on each page that it is hard to take it all in during one reading. The book includes a glossary of terms that elementary children may not be familiar with and a map of the world at the beginning of the century and part of one at the end of the century.This is an excellent book of history for youth that works well as a reference book, too.	2002-09-08
1415452:US	52966385	R3V5JYPFIR2KJF	0679830006	986818476	The Berenstain Bears and the Trouble with Grownups	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A change of perspective.	The book opens with Papa and Mama Bear in grumpy moods. Papa yells at Brother for taking the sports section of the paper, Mama yells at Sister for talking on the phone too long, Mama and Papa yell at the cubs for playing with their food and for not giving them notes from school on time. The cubs go to school the next day and have to prepare for the Parent's Night Talent Show. After talking with their friends, they decide to put on a play called The Trouble With Grownups, which is the hit of the night. The show reminds the parents what it was like to be a cub. In the morning, the parents switch roles with the cubs so that they can see what it's like to be a parent. At the end they remind the cubs that they will probably be parents someday too, which gives the cubs something to think about.<br />The book never explains why Mama and Papa are so grumpy. However, most children can probably relate because people don't always explain why they are in a bad mood. However, Sister Bear's creation of a bowl from mashed potatoes for gravy was a brilliant example of creativity and it seemed more confusing to me that she got yelled at about it.<br />As a sidenote, I enjoyed this book a little more than I thought I would because it also briefly explains all the work that goes into putting on a play.<br />Overall, this is a good book for both parents and children to read together; it may help children see what it's like to be an adult and it may help parents remember what it's like to be a kid.	2002-09-08
1415476:US	52966385	RKB2O9OM5UVGG	0394837363	277455284	The Berenstain Bears Go to School (First Time Books(R))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What's So Great About School?	In this edition of the Berenstain Bears series, summer is coming to an end and the Bear children are preparing to go to school. Sister Bear is going to be in kindergarten and is a bit anxious about leaving home and spending most of the day in a new and strange place. Mama Bear takes Sister to the school to meet her teacher and look at her classroom. Sister begins to think that school might not be so bad. However, when the bus arrives to pick her up on the first day, Sister is still anxious. Eventually, she comes to enjoy school and in the process teaches Brother Bear a lesson.<br />This book is a great book to read to toddlers and young children who are about ready to start school. It shows them that it's okay to be nervous about going to school for the first time, yet at the same time calms their fears about school, thereby preparing them for when they begin classes.	2002-09-08
1415511:US	52966385	R1V4HV2TV3DFCV	0385482612	443082659	What Is God?	Books	5	5	5	N	N	All Creation Speaks.	In this very simple and short, yet profound work, Girzone examines and explores how the divine imprint can be seen in all things. Yes, God is alive and well in the twenty-first century and He lets us know He's around through just about anything. Also, the illustrations that accompany the next are beautiful. This book is written so simple and straight forward that practically anyone can understand it's message and, therefore, it works quite well as a children's book.	2002-09-08
1415878:US	52966385	RCZJ10ONQXDLN	1577190971	215178025	The Berenstain Bears and the Eager Beavers (Photo Fun Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Work and Fun.	In this edition of the Berenstain Bears series, the Bear famiy's next door neighbor, Mr. Skunk moves away and his house is for sale. Several prospective buyers look at the home, but it is the Beaver family that buys the building and moves in next door. The Beavers are hardworkers and don't seem to have much fun. On the other hand, the Bears tend to have too much fun and neglict chores that are needed to be done.<br />This book teaches a lesson in finding a balance between work and play and is great reading to children, especially those who have just started or will be starting to have household chores.	2002-09-08
1415964:US	52966385	R1JSQZGXVHRD3K	0679836713	451562687	The Berenstain Bears and Too Much Pressure	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Too Much To Do.	The Bear Family has become the busiest family in Bear Country. Not because of all the work they have to do, but because of all the activities and organizations they are involved. After the family has a night of bad dreams involving the overworked schedule and Mama has a crying spell when the car won't start, the family sits down to straighten things out.<br />This book, in a subtle way, reminds us all about how precious life is and how valuable time is. It illustrates how overcommitting oneself can be detrimental and it even touches upon the dangers of listening to peer pressure. In this era of go-go-go, it's a helpful reminder to us all.	2002-09-08
1416019:US	52966385	R11X2NACSXW8VB	0394865707	862906172	The Berenstain Bears and Too Much TV	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No TV?	In THE BERENSTAIN BEARS AND TOO MUCH TV, Mama Bear decides that the Bear family is spending way too much time watching television. So, the whole family, including Papa Bear, goes one whole week without watching television. Though upset by the idea at first, Brother and Sister Bear soon realize that there are a whole bunch of things they enjoy doing more than watching television. The story helps illustrate how we miss out on some of the better things in life when we focus too much on one thing.	2002-09-08
1416673:US	52966385	RTIK7XKBCBLN6	059048351X	604450355	A Night in Terror Tower (Goosebumps # 27)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Adventure and Stuff.	A NIGHT IN TERROR TOWER may not be one of R.L. Stine's creepiest books, but it is one of the better action/adventure stories I've read in the Goosebumps series. The story starts out like the typical Goosebumps spookfest with a couple of kids getting lost in the Terror Tower in London and being chased by a sinister looking man who wears black. However, the story soon evolves into something like a fantasy adventure. I loved this story. However, because of a few plot holes at the end, I only gave it four stars instead of five. Other than that, it's a great book that's a little bit different than the average Goosebumps tales.	2002-09-07
1417449:US	52966385	R2469RBFDGF9DH	0316134546	414622235	Halloween (Collector's Edition with CD)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Not really for kids.	HALLOWEEN is being marketed as a children's book, but it's really more for adults. The author of the book is none other than Jerry Seinfeld and the book is written in the comical, whimsical, monologuic style that makes Seinfeld's comedy so funny. However, much of the humor will be lost on children because it's on a level that most kids under the age of ten just won't understand. The illustrations are brilliantly done, capturing the nostalgia and greed of Seinfeld's rambling, memoir-like story. Therefore, though children may not understand all of the book's humor, they will enjoy listening to the story and looking at the pictures.<br />This special edition of the book also includes a cd of Seinfeld performing his story live. The cd is funny. However, even though it contains the exact same words as the book, it isn't as memorable as the storybook it accompanies.	2002-09-06
1418093:US	52966385	R6K83JKVN6WCA	0590483501	479187489	My Hairiest Adventure (Goosebumps)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Knowing	This book really kept me interested. However, it wasn't as scary as many of the other Goosebumps books. The ending is a real kicker; though seems kind of a cop out, it does tie things together nicely. Overall, just an average book that nonetheless is fun to read.	2002-09-05
1418764:US	52966385	R24GURIGIU6RVG	0345422805	234414967	Team Rodent : How Disney Devours the World	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Standing Up Against the Mouse House.	There are a lot of things that go on in this world and our country that most people are totally oblivious. There is a dark underbelly that seethes with evil. Granted, every organization of every kind is going to have some problems. The difference is what those groups do with those problems: do they hide them, or do they expose them to the light and move on?<br />Hiassen asserts in TEAM RODENT that there is a lot going on with the Walt Disney Company that most people don't know about and would be shocked to learn. TEAM RODENT offers a few examples of the evil that lurks withing the mighty Mouse House and suggests that if the opportunity arises to stand against the Goliath Rodent, people should.<br />I throughly enjoyed reading Hiaasen's book.  It was short (like all the books in the Library of Contemporary Though series), but provocative. The accusations were sprinkled with just enough humor to make one laugh, yet not forget what was read. I was not at all upset by Hiaasen's bias against the Mouse House because it added to the flavor of the book. Besides, I have thought for a long time that Walt Disney would not be very happy where his company has been headed the last fifteen years. Just look at what Disney did with children's radio and Radio Aahs; that would make an excellent chapter in TEAM RODENT.<br />Interesting reading that will probably provoke a few thoughts, produce a laugh, or both.	2002-09-05
1419770:US	52966385	R3JBE773VYGP5O	088419793X	491848160	Walk On: The Spiritual Journey of U2	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Introduction to the Band	I was not a fan of U2 until 2000. I had heard many of my Christian peers gush about the band as well as dj's on radio stations all around the USA. I admit I was always struck by the spirituality found in many of U2's songs and was even more intrigued by many of the clearly Biblical allusions and references to Jesus. U2 was always a group of musicians that I wondered &#34;Are they Christian?&#34; because if they were, that was awesome! And if they weren't, I was sure they would convert because they were so close to finding the truth.<br /><br />Therefore, as a new fan of U2, I found this book rather interesting. It answered many of the questions I had about the band and made me rejoice to know of Bono's faith. It introduced me to all of U2's albums and several other projects U2 has been involved with. It served as a great introduction about where U2 came from and why they have done the things they have done.<br /><br />However, the book does have a few drawbacks. The book focuses mainly on Bono and not on the other Christian members of the band; to completely be about U2, there should have been more info about the other band members. Also, the author really should have attempted to get an interview with the band so as to bring something fresh to the work he presents. As I have discovered discussing with Christian U2 fans, the book really does not present any new information about the band; it just rehashes things that have been said and written before.<br />Nevertheless, for a new fan like me, the book was an interesting read and gave me a greater understanding about the band and the art they create.	2002-09-04
1419892:US	52966385	R1S8049ZM51FZ8	1569716099	81931578	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Graphic Novel of the Movie.	This is a graphic novel of the movie THE ATTACK OF THE CLONES. That pretty much sums everything up. However, being a graphic novel there are two major elements the book can be judged upon, art and story.<br />The art is very photorealistic and cinematic. There is a lot of detail and color. I must admit, I like the artistic style of the Marvel comics of the original trilogy much better than the photorealistic style of this book. However, for the style it is illustrated in, it is done quite well.<br />Story wise, the book stays pretty faithful to the movie. There are a few omissions from the film here, but there are also a few added scenes here that are not in the movie. A lot of the dialogue is taken directly from the film's script and though cheesy, reminds one of the language of the original trilogy.<br />This is something that most Star Wars fans will enjoy having and reading and works well as a memento to someone who hasn't seen ATTACK OF THE CLONES to perhaps get them excited enough to do so.	2002-09-04
1419956:US	52966385	RLLIDLETTNO9Z	059039990X	335096616	Bride of the Living Dummy (Goosebumps Series 2000, No 2)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Slappy's Back.	After a prolonged absence, Slappy; the possessed dummy who comes to life when the magic words in his pocket are read, returns to the Goosebumps books. This is Slappy's fourth appearance. Slappy is as rude and sneaky as ever. However, this time Slappy may have met his match in an overgrown doll named Mary-Ellen. The book, like all of the books with Slappy, is a page turner and finally reveals the true origins of Slappy. I've always found ventriloquist dummys frightening and stories about them to be especially scary. BRIDE OF THE LIVING DUMMY is no exception and is spooky even at the end.	2002-09-04
1421035:US	52966385	R25ALISRB7B26B	1563892944	823312445	DC vs. Marvel Comics	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Should Have Been Much Better	he illustrations are pretty cool; full of color and movement. Some of the situations that arise when the two universes crossover are also interesting, e.g. Ben Reilly (Spider Clone) hitting on Louis Lane and the King Pin taking over the Daily Planet. Some of the battles were also interesting. And the creation of the Amalgam universe makes for an unique twist. That's the good stuff.<br /><br />Now for the bad. All of the fights are too short. Most get a full page, while the major battles run about three pages. Some of the fights are so short the outcome doesn't make sense (Silver Surfer and Green Lantern would have lasted much longer) and at least one was not a fair outcome.<br /><br />Besides that, the story is rather convoluted, not making much sense (not that comic books ever make much sense). The heroes act like a bunch of idiots; they fight each other like a bunch of mindless pawns, rather than joining forces and putting together a plan like the rational beings they are supposed to be.<br /><br />It seems that the project had too many writers to stay focused and as a result, what could have been an amazing, marvelous, spectacular comic was just average.	2002-09-03
1422386:US	52966385	R2O1XLYD1OA18S	0590399888	745721352	Cry of the Cat (Goosebumps Series 2000, No 1)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Scary and Full of Supernatural.	The original Goosebumps series was full of suspense and events that almost seemed horrific. However, in the majority of the books things were explained through some natural, rational, or plausible way and then the book ends with a Hitchcockian twist. If CRY OF THE CAT is any indication of what the Goosebumps 2000 holds, then things are a lot more spooky with a lot less rational explantation.<br /><br />The story of CRY OF THE CAT revolves around Alison. Alison is a young girl who is involved in theatre. One afternoon while on her way to play practice, she runs over a cat and kills it. At least she thinks she killed it. When she takes it back to the owners, it comes back to life. The same cat shows up again during play rehearsal and is crushed by a set piece on accident. But the cat comes back again and starts to haunt Alison. The cat, Rip, isn't like other cats and it has a mind of it's own.<br /><br />Spooky story filled with lots of interesting plot twists. Feels more frightening than some of the original Goosebumps.	2002-09-02
1422597:US	52966385	R1BDKIW2EHJX2C	0801023246	500352786	Devotions for college students (Good morning, Lord)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Short, but Aged.	I enjoyed reading this book of devotions. Having just graduated a few years ago and intending to return to school in the fall, I figured I might get something out of this book of devotions. The devotions are all short and each has one major point. Some of them give a few interesting tadbits of information and a few offer a really intriguing story.<br />The book has two major drawbacks. One is that there is not enough scripture; most of the daily devotions only have one line or part of a line of scripture. Secondly, the book has aged some since it was first published. Some of the lessons really no longer are applicable to the modern Christian college student. Other than that, it's a decent devotion book for college students.	2002-09-01
1422705:US	52966385	R1PRXN3MI13737	084233839X	495503036	The Divine Drama	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fails to Expand	Being a student of theatre, acting, and the movies I really was looking forward to reading this book. I figured anything that would compare the Gospel and my life to the form of a play would have to be interesting. Unfortunately, THE DIVINE DRAMA wasn't as interesting as I thought it would be. It takes the story of the Gospel, simplifies it, and puts it into the form of a story. It makes a simple comparison of the Divine Drama to that of a play being written, but it doesn't really expand upon that premise. Nor does it explain in depth how our lives are like scenes in a play.<br /><br />With that said, the book is a decent read and would prove very interesting for someone who has never thought about comparing the Gospel story to a play or even one's life to a drama. However, if you really want to explore the similarities of life, Gospel, and drama read Frederick Buechner's TELLING THE TRUTH: THE GOSPEL AS TRAGEDY, COMEDY, AND FAIRY TALE or C.S. Lewis' GOD IN THE DOCK.	2002-09-01
1422933:US	52966385	RTMJ88T6FYLFT	0892839767	478675227	What on Earth Are We Doing?: Finding Our Place As Christians in the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Illumination Into the Ghetto	The premise of John Fischer's book, WHAT ON EARTH ARE WE DOING? is that the Church has abandoned the world and instead of being the salt and light of the Earth as Jesus called us to be, we have created our own little sub-culture, our own little ghetto of safety that the world totally ignores.<br /><br />The Christian sub-culture is not necessarily a bad thing. As Christians, we need fellowship with other believers, we need music that glorifies God, and we need books written from a Christian perspective. However, we have created these things at the expense of being mediocre and with an attitude of self-righteousness. The world ignores the little ghetto we have created for ourselves because it has nothing to offer them except hypocrisy, condemnation, and mediocrity.<br /><br />We as the Church have not forgotten we are at war, but we have mixed up who we are at war with. For the last thirty years, Christians have been fighting against the people of the world when those are the very individuals we are fighting to save. We are not at war with the lost, we are at war with the dark forces of the spiritual realm. We have forgotten this and instead of trying to help illuminate the world with the Gospel, we have condemned it with our own self-righteousness.<br />These are all points the Fischer raises and discusses in WHAT ON EARTH ARE WE DOING? The book is a great read for every Christian and will probably prove to be an eye opener.	2002-09-01
1423387:US	52966385	R1P92FW9J4SHGV	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There's Something Below the Surface.	This book was recommended to me by about 100 different 3rd-7th graders. As someone who is interesting in what youth are reading, I asked kids I taught and counseled at camp if there were any books they thought I should read. HOLES always was mentioned. I now understand why.<br />HOLES is the story about Stanley Yelnats IV. Stanley's family is not very wealthy and Stanley's father is an inventor who works with old sneakers. Stanley is convicted of stealing a pair of shoes worn by a famous baseball player that were going to be auctioned off for a children's home. Stanley is sentenced to work at Camp Green Lake, a place that is neither a camp, green, nor a lake. Every day the \\"campers\\" have to dig a five foot by five foot by five foot hole. While at Camp Green Lake, Stanley befriends another boy, Hector Zeroni. The boys' lives quickly become intwined as events of the story unfold.<br />HOLES is an exciting book and rather well written. Much of the story reminded me of the movie COOL HAND LUKE and Stanley is in many ways just like Cool Hand Luke. However, the story is also greatly different from that wonderful movie, especially how HOLES constantly weaves together two seemingly different stories from two different time periods; an element that made me enjoy the story that much more.<br />Overall, an intriguing book filled with twists and turns that children love and that adults will enjoy, too.	2002-08-31
1424225:US	52966385	R3CBPF1PKP3ULE	0822203901	721234861	Father of the Bride - Acting Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;I am not a Big Chief.&quot;	This humorous play is based on the novel and has been successfully made into two different movies. The movie starring Spencer Tracy is more similar to the play than the Steve Martin film. However, the Steve Martin movie has one very important character that the Spencer Tracy film does not, Massoula (played by Martin Short); who is the funniest character in the script. Anyway, the play is a charming comedy that examines the horrors of the rituals we call weddings from the perspective of the father of the bride.<br />Mr. Banks is a happily married man with three children who doesn't have any major problems in life. Then his daughter announces out of the blue that she is engaged to a man the family barely knows. Chaos begins and continues throughout the play until the last scene when we see the true character of the father of the bride.<br />A delightful play that's not only a blast to watch, but is a joy to read as well.	2002-08-30
1424517:US	52966385	R27CU4XOONJDY	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Adventure Continues.	In the first book, readers were introduced to Harry Potter and company and given a brief glimpse into Harry's past. The story described Harry's first adventures and as most first adventures are, it was exciting, yet simple.<br />The second book introduced several new characters and delved deeper into Hogwarts history, specifically the origins of Harry's arch nemesis, Lord Voldemort. Harry faced his enemy in a stronger form with greater risk but proved that he had the heart of a hero.<br />HARRY POTTER AND THE PRISONER OF AZKABAN is more interesting and exciting than either of the first two books. The novel is full of suspense, twists, and turns. It continues the search into the past (after all who we are is who we were) revealing more secrets about Harry and Hogwarts and introduces several great characters, Remus Lupin and Sirius Black. Not only that, but the book hints at a darkness that is to come and contains a level of emotion that is lacking in the first two novels. The story moves at a fast pace and is not easy to put down.<br />Children will love reading the book, but many adults may be surprised that they enjoy reading it as well. A great story.	2002-08-30
1425342:US	52966385	R2HI5RR8OYTB96	0842354158	216703017	Fixing Our Eyes: A Guidebook for a TV-Free Week	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Does What It Intends To Do.	This book is subtitled &quot;A Guidebook for a TV-Free Week&quot; and rightly so, because that is exactly what it is. I do not watch much television to begin with and have spent many weeks television free. However, I agree with the challenge presented in the book that as Americans we spend way too much time watching televsion and that we should spend at least one week television free. I have known for some time that much of television is a void. However, even I was challenged by some of the observations the book makes. The only negative comment is that the book is rather short and does not expand upon some of the issues it raises. Of course, that is why it is a guidebook. Overall, a wonderful book that can help a person or family spend at least one week of their lives televsion free.	2002-08-29
1522326:US	52966385	R119YTPM0LSUK8	0375814973	915589625	The Skywalker Family Album	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Family Similarities.	This short kiddy book uses pictures and illustrations from the first 5 STAR WARS films to display the lifestyle similarities between the Skywalkers: Anakin and Luke, Padme and Leia, Luke and Leia. The book is really short, but is fun to look through especially if you are or know a young STAR WARS fan.	2002-06-03
1532420:US	52966385	R1572KR804QYYI	0842355715	531693561	Finding God in the Lord of the Rings	Books	4	29	34	N	N	Skimming the Surface.	J.R.R. Tolkien wrote THE LORD OF THE RINGS because he wanted to write a good story. That's a huge generalization, but it's true. Now, Tolkien said time and again that THE LORD OF THE RINGS was not an allegory of any kind, but he never denied that his beliefs and values played a part in the saga's creation. Tolkien was a devout Christian (Catholic in denomination) and his faith was very real and was the essence of who he was. Therefore, though THE LORD OF THE RINGS is not an allegory, it is full of Christian images and ideals.<br />FINDING GOD IN THE LORD OF THE RINGS attempts to illuminate some of those Christian values found in THE LORD OF THE RINGS. Unfortunately, the book never dives far enough into Tolkien's writing. There are many images, characters, and events that the author's could have examined concerning the Christian faith, but didn't. It's also really short, I read the whole book in about an hour. Therefore, it works best as a devotional for any Tolkien fan. It also works well as an introduction for any parent or other adult concerned about the goodness of THE LORD OF THE RINGS.	2002-05-24
1532941:US	52966385	R1NH75GD90RXE2	0385495102	587364433	Joshua: The Homecoming	Books	2	14	18	N	N	Joshua No More.	I have read all the books in the Joshua series and a couple other books Joseph Girzone has written. My favorites are JOSHUA and JOSHUA AND THE CHILDREN. JOSHUA AND THE CHILDREN really moved me and affected me deeply, giving me a deeper appreciation for the finer things in life. I was really looking forward to reading JOSHUA THE HOMECOMING, the latest book in the series.<br />What a huge disappointment! The Joshua of JOSHUA THE HOMECOMING is not the same Joshua who appears in the other books in the series. The author says he is, but he's not really. No, the Joshua in this book is really just a puppet that the author uses to express his own beliefs and philosophies, some of which are not even Biblical. Now, there's nothing wrong with an author using a character he has created to spew forth the author's beliefs. However, Joshua isn't just some character. Joshua is supposed to be Jesus. Jesus isn't just a character and he shouldn't be treated as such.What made the first few Joshua books so enjoyable, memorable, and meaningful is that Joshua was Jesus. Girzone seems to have forgotten that. Instead, Joshua has become a mouthpiece of Joseph Girzone.<br />No longer does Joshua hide the identity of who he is, but now he lets people in on the &quot;messianic secret&quot; sometimes even telling them point blank who he really is. Not only that, but this Joshua claims that the Bible really isn't God-breathed but is an embellishment made by men. According to this Joshua: the claims of Christ about when the world would end aren't true and a prophecy might never reach it's fulfillment; macro-evolution is a fact of life; and we should all be blindly listening to scientists because they are the new prophets. This is just a sample of the teachings from the new Joshua.<br />I enjoyed reading all the other Joshua books, but JOSHUA THE HOMECOMING was a struggle to get through. The book isn't very long and the language is simple, yet it drags. Instead of caring what was going on with the story, I found myself wondering how long the book was going to drag. What a disappointment.story, I found myself wondering how long the book was going to drag. What a disappointment.	2002-05-24
1534844:US	52966385	R1AFQUCUWT4JY9	0763608114	390128040	The Three Sillies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mr. Tom, You're Silly.	This is a retelling of the classic folktale about a young man who agrees to marry a young maiden, but only after he had found three people who are sillier than she. Thus he begins a quest that leads him to all sorts of strange places where he meets many silly people. But in the end, the suitor learns that it is he who is the silliest of them all.<br />The illustrations are wonderful and really make the story come alive in a real, but humorous way. I love the cat, he has some of the best lines in the whole book.<br />I loved this book because of the old folktale, but it's still a great story for modern kids. My younger siblings enjoyed the story, even though they called parts of it strange.	2002-05-22
1535024:US	52966385	R29IFGFTYN3JFV	0140567216	802152064	Cows Can't Fly	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Life is Beautiful.	I have to admit the majority of children's books on the market aren't worth the time to read them because they are filled with mediocrity. I don't know why people think that when something is labeled as \\"children's\\" it has to be dumbed down. With that said, COWS CAN'T FLY is not one of those books.<br />The book, though short and simple like most children's books, is accompanied by vibrant and lively illustrations that engage the imagination. The story revolves around a young boy who draws a picture of cows flying. Everybody knows that cows can't fly and even his father calls the drawing absurd. However, a gust of wind blows the picture to a pasture where it is discovered by a herd of cows. The cows see it and to their amazement find that they can fly. The boy sees them, but no one else does because they're too busy looking at the ground.<br />What a great message! Life's an adventure and if we believe everything people tell us and never try new things, we will never reach the heights we are capable. Anyone read Plato? It's the Parable of the Cave from the Republic, but told for kids. You know a book has to be good if it relates to ancient Greek metaphysics, yet is comprehendable by children.	2002-05-22
1542047:US	52966385	R136H9JW9T4L4M	0671667440	156711656	The King Who Rained	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Hey, Hey, Hey.	THE KING WHO RAINED is a humorous collection of a young girl's mental illustrations when she hears various homonyms. The book, written by the late Fred Gwynne, introduces children to the exciting, fun, and sometimes confusing world of the English language. This book is one of three books Gwynne wrote about homonyms and when you put all three together you have a nice trilogy. Children love reading these books and they work well as a springboard into other fun and witty word games. A delight.	2002-05-16
1543768:US	52966385	RQ0D06IIK29LH	0671694448	529245826	A Little Pigeon Toad	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fun With English.	This is a delightful book to read to and with children. It introduces them not only to some of the idiosyncracies of the English language, but also to verbal humor. Fred Gwynne was not only a wonderful comic actor, but he was a great artist as well; the pictures in these books are soft and playful augmenting the confused phrases in the young girl's mind. Kids love this book and it is a joy to read.	2002-05-14
1545159:US	52966385	RSVQ7G5PVGWQI	0689707495	525995237	Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs	Books	5	53	57	N	Y	Oh, the Weather Outside is Frightful.	I remember when I was in the first grade and having had this story read to us at library time. Everyone in the class loved it and every time when it snowed for the next two winters I looked outside and every once in while I thought I saw mashed potatoes covering the ground. I'm all grown up now and I still love this book, but kids still love it too. We were requested to read this about at least once a month at the day care where I worked.<br />The story is full of imagination and the illustrations, though animated are detailed. The story is a modern tall tale and reading this book is like looking through a giant children's comic book. My favorite section is when the weather food goes beserk and there is a pickle in a living room, a noodle stuck on a man's head, a dog stuck to piece of pizza, and a hamburger stuffed atop a chimney. Stories don't get much more imaginative and creative than that.	2002-05-13
1545998:US	52966385	R26O3YODXEYXEL	0688112714	363273152	The Walk West: A Walk Across America 2	Books	5	28	32	N	N	"The Circle Is Never Broken"	THE WALK WEST continues the journey of Peter and Barbara Jenkins that began in the book A WALK ACROSS AMERICA. The book is a delight to read. Peter Jenkins is an excellent writer. His descriptions of people and places are so vivid that he is able to capture the essence of a person, place, or event in a few short, almost poetic words without any drivel. Barbara is quite a different writer, but the ancedotes she shares throughout the book enhance the story, filling in details that help one better understand a situation, person, or event.<br />Reading about their journey reminded me of how great America truly is. We live in a great nation, the most blessed on the Earth and we are surrounded by goodness. However, just as the Jenkins were faced with some life-harrowing events (the voodoo lady, the crazy maniacs in Colorado, the drunk driver in Utah), so are we all. The world is a wonderful place, but evil still exists and admist all the good there is always a token of evil that threatens and menaces until it either destroys or is destroyed itself. Also, when I reflected upon the hardships the Jenkins endured on their long walk it helped remind me of how blessed my life is. Blessings surround us, but most of the time we are blind to them.<br />My parents introduced me to the Jenkins' journey and I am so grateful they did. The walk across America captures an essence of what the United States is and in doing so, reflects upon each of our own lives. After all, we are all on a journey and because of that \\"the circle is never broken\\".	2002-05-13
1548629:US	52966385	RLSV8XKWJUI0V	0806642785	715335866	Prodigal Hugging Church	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Coming Out of Our Shells	If one studies history, one will observe that Christianity has played a major impact upon the world's cultures. Art, music, literature, science, philosophy, and just about any other discipline named has been influenced by Christian thought. The Church used to play an active role in culture. Then something happened. The attacks on faith that began with the creation of Darwinism and Marxism came to a head in the 1960s with the sexual revolution, the drug epidemic, etc. Instead of engaging the culture and providing an alternative to the darkness offered, the Church withdrew and a Christian subculture was born. Everyone has been suffering the consequences ever since.<br /><br />In THE PRODIGAL HUGGING CHURCH, Tim Wright sets a call of action to Christians everywhere. Instead of abandoning culture, Wright suggests that Christians need to embrace culture; just like the Father embraced the Prodigal Son in Jesus' famous parable. We need to embrace, welcome, celebrate, affirm, engage, use, and serve the culture in which we live.<br /><br />I agree with most of what Wright says. We need to know what is going on in the world, engaging ourselves in culture and provide an alternative to the world at large. The Church has been living in the safe ghettos of the Christian subculture for too long. However, it is a fine and dangerous line that has to be walked. Wright doesn't warn enough of the dangers of submersing oneself into the ways of the world. Not only that, but he offers no real suggestions on how to actively engage the culture in a purposeful and meaningful way that will have an impact for the Kingdom. With that said, Wright's message still is one that needs repeated over and over until the Church is once again an active participant of culture.	2002-05-10
1549282:US	52966385	R1QGDV0T0MKZQ	0671667416	994082685	A Chocolate Moose for Dinner	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	He's the Town's Favorite Sun.	The English language is all [messed] up. Foreigners recognize that immediately, but it takes we Americans much longer to realize that. Of course, with all the goofy rules and exceptions in English, it can be quite fun to speak it. No more is this more apparent than with homonyms (words that sound the same but have different meanings). Kids love homonyms, and used in an imaginative context can help children gain an appreciation for language. With that in mind, A CHOCOLATE MOOSE FOR DINNER is a delightful book. The sayings and the illustrations that accompany those phrases are a joy to read and usually get several laughs from children. A few of the phrases (shoe tree, and the rowing allusions) maybe a bit unfamiliar to modern audiences. Nevertheless, those terms add to the book rather than detract. Children love this book and it is sure to be a winner in alomst any home.	2002-05-10
1550127:US	52966385	R18SL0H2WJL8FN	B0083TTJPC	434536448	Tumble Bumble	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Alligator Boots and Spider Guts	Written by the same author as \\"If You Give a Pig a Pancake\\", this charming little book tells the tale of a bug that goes for a walk and ends up meeting a variety of creatures along the way, talking with them, and befriending them. The text is quite lyrical with catchy-rhymes on every page and children love looking at the illustrations of the cuddly-looking creatures. The book's ending always seemed to capture several \\"Ah's\\" from the kids at the day care where I worked. Recommended for children around seven years and younger.	2002-05-09
1550670:US	52966385	R1AYOZF0E9YR0P	0689815395	385209155	Easy to See Why (Aladdin Picture Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Great Book.	I vaguely remember having read this story when I was a child. Thanks to Amazon I have been able to rediscover this delightful little book by Fred Gwynne, the guy who played Herman Munster on the television show \\"The Munsters\\". I am amazed at Gwynne's skill as both a storyteller and artist; he created the illustrations, too and they are full of warmth and care. In this book a young girl decides to enter her unpedigreed mutt in a local dog show. She loves her dog very much and thinks he has a chance of winning. Then she begins meeting some other competitors whose pooches look an awful lot like their owners. What's a girl to do, but go ahead and enter the competition. It's easy to see why.	2002-05-09
1555690:US	52966385	R21VMC4FZTNHSI	0590471473	368601242	The Matzah That Papa Brought Home (Passover Titles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	About the Seder.	This wonderful little book uses a repetitious pattern (ala \\"A Hole in the Ground\\" or \\"The House that Jack Built\\") to explain the events of a family Passover Seder. The text is full of rhythm and the illustrations are beautiful, warm, and soft bringing to life the closeness of community and illustrating the importance of family during such an important celebration. Those familiar with the traditions described herein will enjoy the book for the memories it can help evoke and those unfamiliar with such things as \\"matzah\\", \\"Dayenu\\", and \\"afikoman\\" will delight in learning about them.	2002-05-04
1556328:US	52966385	R18ZEUTWW0B2EQ	0517668777	406820859	Dinosaurs: An A-Z Guide	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Informative, But Dated.	Kids love dinosaurs and are always wanting to learn more about the great &quot;terrible&quot; lizards that once roamed the Earth. This book is a dinosaur encyclopedia filled with information on all sorts of dinosaurs. The book is over a decade old, so some of the recently &quot;discovered&quot; dinosaurs aren't in here and some of the illustrations are dated. However, most of the information in the book is surprisingly still current and accurate. This would make a great gift for any elementary child who has an interest in dinosaurs.	2002-05-04
1557562:US	52966385	R2LOD8IF9MW3D1	9998380111	861251765	Super Bus(Big Driver Shape Board Books) #10107	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Oh, the Places You Can Go.	The main character of this book is a giant Super Bus. The bus travels around from place to place going to several different destinations. In doing so, the book broadens children's horizons and introduces them to the world at large. Kids love looking at Super Bus.	2002-05-02
1558532:US	52966385	R2T7YIZWB1OAW6	9998523427	863140263	Harvey the Harvester (Big Driver Shape Board Book)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	In the Fields.	Using a cartoony character called, Harvery the Harvester, this book explains to children how grains and crops are harvested for food. The book is simple to read, yet helps increase children's vocabularies. However, the main thing kids like about this book isn't the knowledge they gain, but Harvey.	2002-05-02
1558611:US	52966385	R25WACXW4Q9JBV	0590115073	286684909	Winter is here!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Snow and More	This book describes the events and activities that happen during the winter. It's a fun little book that's full of warm illustrations and easy to read.	2002-05-02
1559610:US	52966385	R2U15U7MPDD32L	0307164527	605022517	Cowboy Pup \Furry Face (Furry Faces)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	This Isn't About the Story.	This book is one of those trick-gadget books that people come up with in the hope that it will lead children to explore books and begin a lifetime of reading. The story is quite short and features a a young cowboy pup. There are a few Cowboy Western slang words that younger children may not understand, but other than that the story; which describes the daily adventures of Cowboy Pup is easy to read and understand. Kids love this book, but it's not for the words. They love it for the furry puppy face that is pasted on the end, but through cleverly placed holes appears on every other page. It's a nice book to look at, but without the furry face, it's just mediocre tripe.	2002-05-01
1559760:US	52966385	R3QQXWFKHR56BB	0520218574	135022616	Stalag 17	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cinematic Magic.	Billy Wilder adapted the stage play of STALAG 17 and improved it every way he could. This is a copy of the original screenplay for the movie so all of the scenes are here, including a few snippets that were deleted in the final version of the film. The story is brilliantly put together and it only takes about an hour to ninety minutes to read the whole thing, including the informative introduction. This is a wonderful example to explore for anyone who wants to write or is writing screenplays and it is also great for any movie buff or fan of Wilder.	2002-05-01
1561712:US	52966385	R1T4NI47UZKM8J	0811809978	451973361	From Star Wars to Indiana Jones: The Best of the Lucasfilm Archives	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Collection.	This book offers an inside look at the huge collection of the Lucasfilm Archives. Conceptual art, models, props, puppets, masks, and various other movie making elements from the  original STAR WARS and INDIANA JONES trilogies are examined and the last few pages look at three or four items from other Lucasfilm projects including WILLOW and HOWARD THE DUCK. The text is more than just element descriptions and some of the information is interesting and rather fascinating. A great book for any STAR WARS and/or INDIANA JONES fan and a must for a Lucas buff.	2002-04-29
1562008:US	52966385	RBRZLMPTV4NG3	0679805273	689067271	Oh, the Places You'll Go!	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Think Outside the Box.	Dr. Seuss is considered to be one of America's best \\"children's\\" authors. However, I don't think the good doctor ever intended to write solely for children. Some of his books were clearly written for youngsters, but most of them, I believe, were written for everyone.<br />Nowhere is this more apparent than in OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! The book is often given as a gift to students as they graduate. But the messages the book contains aren't just for the transitional times of our lives. They are things to remember wherever we go, and whatever we do.<br />Children can profit from reading and listening to the book being read. And sure, the book is filled with the usual zany illustrations and a few never-before-heard-of creatures, situations, and places that kids will enjoy looking at and which may possibly ignite their imagination. But make no mistake, this isn't really a children's book. Kids should be free to be kids and it is only when they are forced to grow up that locations like Lurch, Slump, and The Waiting Place become familiar places. Overall, children cannot understand and comprehend the complexities of life that are described in the book; only adults can do that. Nevertheless, like all great \\"children's\\" literature, this is a story for adults, but filled with lessons that if we remember and have ingrained within us when we are young,  it will help us succeed 98 and 3/4ths of the time.	2002-04-29
1562459:US	52966385	R3X8P0CB00B3E	0684846845	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More Than Meets the Eye.	At face value JONATHAN LIVINGSTON SEAGULL is about a seagull who isn't like the other birds in his flock; instead of being interested in eating, Jonathan cares more about flying. His defiance to the ways of the flock eventually lead to his banishment. However, Jonathan is a resiliant bird and eventually returns to show the other birds a new way.<br />In and of itself, the book isn't a bad story. However, the story is more than just a story. It's also a metaphor for life. It's a parable on the difference between existing and living; existing is easy, but to truly live is hard.<br />The book is a joy to read once, but even more of a delight upon further examinations. It's filled with lessons of truth, reminding one of the Parables of Jesus. It is a literary gem worth discovering and more than worth mining to find the truth within.	2002-04-29
1563156:US	52966385	R1V5MTZ51KQL8R	0962219142	138834127	How to Be a Great Camp Counselor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good For First Timers.	I had already spent one summer as a camp counselor and was preparing for another summer in the woods with kids when I discovered this book. The book is filled with lots of good advice, helpful scenarios, tidbits and stories, useful ideas and information. It's written in an easy-to-read style and even when carefully soaking up all the information, should only take a few days to read. This book could be quite helpful for someone who is preparing to counsel at a summer camp for the first time and has a bad case of the nervous jitters. However, if you're already a veteran at the job, there isn't a whole lot here that you don't already know.	2002-04-28
1565564:US	52966385	R2BOBLDBC900M5	0413767701	339980086	Blood Brothers (Modern Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;I'm Not Saying a Word.&quot;	Though it is a bit crude in some parts, BLOOD BROTHERS remains and probably always will be my favorite musical of all time. The plot of the story revolves around a set of twins (Mickey and Eddie) separated at birth because their mother cannot afford to raise two more children. A deal is struck with the infertile employer of Mrs. Johnstone, Mrs. Lyons, and one of the children is raised by the Lyons in luxury. The only catch, no one must ever know the truth. As life has it, the boys eventually meet anyway and become the best of friends, blood brothers.<br />Willy Russell created a real gem here. BLOOD BROTHERS is a moving musical filled with all the tragedy and comedy of life, but without resorting to sentimental sap. The play exposed and illustrated to me the fatal flaws of the British economic caste system in a way far better than any other piece of literature ever has. It's a great play and though the moving music is not found here in the script, there's still the story.	2002-04-26
1566145:US	52966385	R1PLEHP1K1I1QN	0836280970	508978810	Good Grief: The Story of Charles M. Schulz	Books	5	9	10	N	N	You Were a Good Man, Charles Schulz	Though Charles Schulz created one of the world's most popular comic strips and became a celebrity in the process, he remained a very private person. He was a rather simple man, and though he took the name of Charlie Brown from an old friend, Charles Schulz was the true soul of that lovable loser. GOOD GRIEF examines the life of Schulz, his work, and it's effect upon society. The book remains the most informative work on Schulz and gives insight into the inspiration for most of the Peanuts gang and even the story about the real \\"little red-haired girl\\". The only real flaw is that the book skips around from past to present from description to analysis from looking at Schulz to talking about one of his characters. It's not a bad style, but unfortunately in this case ruffles the flow of the biography. Nevertheless, it is a wonderful book for any Peanuts fan to read and also would be a good reference for anyone wanting to gain an apprectiation of one of the best comic strip artists of all time.	2002-04-25
1567043:US	52966385	R3P60DEGHOBKWN	0439188792	902221977	Scooby-Doo! and the Phony Fortune-Teller (Scooby-doo Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scooby-Doo Today.	The Mystery, Inc. gang is traveling aboard an old-fashioned steamboat to have a good old time and eat plenty of food. But something's strange when the star of one of the ship's shows, Madame Aurora predicts that a completely unique computer chip will disappear and it does. But the chip isn't the only thing missing, so is Madame Aurora. It's up to Scooby and the gang to find the false fortune teller and get back the stolen chip.<br />This is one of the most contemporary of the Scooby stories in this series I have read. A few years ago, the plot would have seemed somewhat far-fetched. However, with the changing times and the increase in security all around, the plot couldn't be more timely.	2002-04-25
1571657:US	52966385	R1HH62M8LS43K1	0439106648	266985839	Scoobydoo and the Fairground Phantom (Scooby-doo Mysteries #11)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Woah!	The gang is out having fun at the county fair. Shaggy and Scooby are selected to be judges for some pie eating contests. While doing their \\"testing\\" and unexpected visitor shows up, the ghost of Revolutionary War Hero General Sherwin Todey. When the lady who runs the fair is turned into a ghost and disappears, most of the gang suspects something foul is afoot and wants to investigate.<br />Like the rest of the books in the series, this book is filled with pictures and is not difficult to read. There isn't too much of mystery that can happen at a fairground, so the story isn't as engaging as some of the other books in the series. Nevertheless, it's a blast to see Scooby and Shaggy as pie contest judges. A wonderful book for beginning readers and Scooby-Doo fans.	2002-04-21
1572426:US	52966385	RGJ6KN9EWC5D8	0590452665	219622690	The Egg (First Discovery Books)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What Came First?	Using engaging transparent pages, this book captures the imagination by explaining what happens to eggs. Relying mostly upon a chicken, the book illustrates where the egg comes from, what's inside, how the animal grows, and how the peep breaks free. Besides the chicken, the book also briefly discusses other animals that come from eggs: other birds, reptiles, fish, and crayfish. The book is a great science book and stealthy increases scientific vocabulary. Not only that, but it contains a little bit of good old fashioned European humor as well. A wonderful science tool for children of all ages.	2002-04-20
1572494:US	52966385	RR1UF0CF7NNMU	0789434814	801585681	The Visual Dictionary of Star Wars, Episodes IV, V, & VI: The Ultimate Guide to Star Wars Characters and Creatures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I've Got To Get Me Some of Those Props	Great book for any STAR WARS fan. Lists and discusses just about every prop used in the original trilogy. Filled with information based both upon fact and fiction. It's in the details, man.	2002-04-20
1572633:US	52966385	R1TFPW15LC3MTE	0694010669	901645126	Color Farm Board Book	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Colors and Shapes.	Using vibrant colors and die-cuts this book creates the visages of various farm animals. The book appeals to babies and young toddlers and introduces them to various shapes and colors. The die-cuts used to create the various animals are brilliantly conceived. The youngest children at the day care always liked flipping through this book; the color combination really catches one's attention.	2002-04-20
1573111:US	52966385	RVTP9WS0O6K44	0439113482	117105747	Scooby-Doo and the zombie's treasure	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Zoinks! It's a Zombie.	Scooby and company are going camping at Treasure Bend, a campsite famous for it's old mines and supposedly buried treasure. Business is slow so the gang can camp in the prime locale. However, rumors of a golddigger's zombie leave Scoob and Shaggy just a little uneasy. Then they meet the creature face to face. Jeepers creepers! But an unexpected accident leads Velma and Fred to suspect that the zombie isn't what he seems.<br />Breaking away from the usual Scooby-Doo formula this story had a couple of unexpected twists (e.g. Daphne's disappearance). I also enjoyed the character of Panther Jack. It would be neat to see him in another story sometime. Overall, a book that children and fans of Scooby-Doo will probably love.	2002-04-20
1573398:US	52966385	RAT1NZGXNWBOQ	0439045975	800543043	Big and Little (Learning Center Emergent Readers)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Typical Mediocrity.	Relying heavily upon vivid pictures of two items placed side by side, this book introduces children to the concept of big and small. Things compared include dogs, elephants, sandcastles, bears, hands, chairs, bikes, leaves, boats, houses, and trees. The last picture in the book shows a set of twin children to show that some things can be the same size. The last page of the book includes paragraphs for each of the items pictured explaining the difference in size between each item (e.g. the hands page shows one adult hand and one child hand). Not that bad of a book, but it is quite simple and rather mediocre.	2002-04-19
1573785:US	52966385	R3N0VALEH6WOOQ	0941188639	156879006	Inspirational Hollywood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Inspiration	The entertainment business is filled with fear, loathing, and cynicism. Negativity abounds in the land of movie magic. Yet, even amidst all the mud-slinging and political game-playing, fragments of truth can be found. This book is a collection of various quotations from some of Hollywood's most elite, powerful, and beloved stars and moguls. Some of the quotations are inspiring and uplifting. Some are a little vain and conceited (contrary to what the subtitle says). However, all are cause for thought and possible reflection.<br /><br />Though, the book is divided into several chapters, there are really two sections. The first section includes quotes on a variety of subjects from laughter, beauty, age and love. Just about anyone can appreciate these quotations. The second half of the book includes quotes about Hollywood, acting, directing, and writing. Unless you're familiar with the biz, the second half of the book will probably be nothing more than slightly amusing. However, should you be a struggling artist, the second half is full of quotes to fuel your creative fire and keep one going through the long and draining days ahead.<br /><br />Overall, an easy, yet thought provoking read, full of great quotes for both the common man and the struggling artist.	2002-04-19
1574069:US	52966385	R1BAB9AZYACL96	0439188776	211457438	Scooby-Doo and the Runaway Robot (Scooby-doo Mysteries #13)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Relp, Shaggy!"	It's Shaggy's birthday and the gang goes to the giant Howard's Department Store to get Shaggy a gift. An unexpected accident by a klutzy store clerk introduces the gang to the store's new security measure, a robot called SSD-3. Later, while Fred, Daphne, and Velma are hunting for a gift for Shaggy, Scoob and Shag head towards the cooking department. However, along the way they discover that SSD-3 may not be the pillar of law and order expected as they witness the robot steal a hammer from hardware and then chases Shaggy and Scooby throughout the store. Fred smells fish and the gang looks for clues.<br />This is the 13th book in this Scooby-Doo series. As is the case with the other books, it was a fun read and fairly short. Shaggy's birthday was a nice touch that mixed the typical Scooby formula up just a little. Great for young readers and Scooby-Doo fans.	2002-04-19
1574174:US	52966385	R3QQYC5L988T72	0439083680	383028040	Franklin Tv #04 Franklin Forgets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Lesson in Responsibility.	Young Franklin Turtle keeps his room clean, helps out with chores, and is becoming a responsible turtle. When he learns that Mr. Mole is leaving on a four-day vacation and needs someone to water his flower garden, Franklin quickly volunteers. However, Franklin soon learns that agreeing to the job may have been more than he bargained.<br />This book based on a children's television show is a delight to read to children. The illustrations are taken directly from the show and are bright, full of color and action. The moral of this particular story is about being responsible for the things we do and don't do in life. Great for children ages 3-8.	2002-04-19
1574535:US	52966385	R17X5UT47VB8DR	0789447207	70335885	NFL Board Book: Big & Small	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Football is Educational.	Using various NFL players in a variety of action and non-action poses, this book introduces young children to opposites. Big & small; narrow & wide; over & under; off & on; and various other opposites are shown. Adults may enjoy this book more, trying to identify the different football stars (some who have left the game) who are pictured in the book (some include Terrell Davis, Will Shields, and Randall Cunningham). However, youngsters who enjoy football will probably learn a thing or two from this book, too.	2002-04-18
1574853:US	52966385	R3Q52H2VTBU6T6	0439188768	371373792	Scooby-Doo and the Frankenstein Monster	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Classic Monster in a Modern Tale.	Scooby and the gang are off to a famous wax museum for a private demonstration of how wax figures are made. The statues look so life-like they could be real. But as Scooby and Shaggy find out, some of them maybe real, as they are chased through the building by Frankenstein's monster, who seems to be after a valuable necklace. The rest of the gang have a hunch things aren't what they appear to be and the stage is set for a showdown between a classic horror creature and a beloved cartoony dog.<br />Except for the fact that, well, the monster wasn't exactly who he was, this story reminded me of some of the old Abbot and Costello monster movies. The book is easy to read and is a delight for kids and any Scooby-Doo fan.	2002-04-18
1575507:US	52966385	R3JTBFNINJICH4	0689833407	936279339	The Remarkable Farkle Mcbride	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Remarkable (Spoiled) Farkle McBride.	Farkle McBride is a musical genius. At the age of three he plays the violin.  At five it's the flute, at seven the trombone, and at nine he's mastered percussion. However, Farkle is never quite satisfied and destroys each of his instruments a year after mastering them. It isn't until he's ten that he realizes that what he loves best is hearing all the instruments together and is called upon to conduct an orchestra.<br />Lithgow has a wonderful sense of rhyme and the onomatopoeia is a delight. C.F. Payne's illustrations are beautiful and his Farkle looks rather similar to a young John Lithgow.<br />Kids enjoy listening to the book and if you really want to read into it, it's filled with lessons. For example, the book introduces children to the wondrous sounds of an orchestra and it illustrates that it's good to try new things and keep learning.<br />I didn't not like the fact that Farkle destroys every instrument he owned. That illustrates the Farkle is basically a spoiled brat whose parents obey his every whim. Of course, that whole characteristic of Farkle could be used as a lesson, too. Then again, maybe Lithgow never intended for there to be any lessons in the book. Some books, after all, are just fun to read in and of themselves. In that case, it's a very fun and entertaining story to read.	2002-04-18
1576287:US	52966385	R26MUY9WPJ2ZNH	0590341251	587017410	Clifford the Big Red Dog	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Introducing Clifford.	This first Clifford the Big Red Dog book is in board book format so that younger children can flip through the pages and enjoy Clifford without accidently destroying the book. This book introduces Emily Elizabeth and her pet dog, Clifford. However, Clifford isn't an ordinary dog. He's big. He's red and he has some peculiar habits. Children of a variety of ages love Clifford and this book is a great way to introduce young children to Emily and Clifford. It's fairly short, entertaining, and contains a subtle message on acceptance as well.	2002-04-17
1577246:US	52966385	R177V3X4XCB38R	0823079430	118808489	Film Facts	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Full of Info.	This book is great for any movie or trivia buff. It's filled with all sorts of information concerning movies. Ever wonder when a certain film technique was first used? Or what the first movie theatre in the United States was? When was the first time someone appeared nude in a film? What was the yearly attendance to movie theatres in the United States? What film had the highest number of casulties? On and on and on the information flows. Over 240 pages of information and 75 photographs. Stump your friends and aggravate your enemies.	2002-04-16
1577937:US	52966385	R3I9KEBDXMJZZ5	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Taken With a Grain of Salt.	I don't know about most people (and mabye it's because I've seen too many movies), but I've often wondered what I would do in certain life-threatening circumstances. How would I defend myself if a shark would attack me? What would I do if I got caught in an avalanche? How does one keep from sinking in quicksand? The authors of this book wondered these questions too, but actually did enough research so that they could write a book on what they found.<br />Granted, the title of this book is probably a little bit misleading because though the book explains what to do in some very unusual life threatening circumstances, it really isn't that indepth of a survival handbook. I don't begrudge the authors for not going more indepth because they just wanted the basics while being entertaining at the same time. If anything, I'm a little disappointed in myself because I didn't think of the idea first. With that said, all of the techniques described could save your life or help you or someone else out in a worst-case scenario.<br />I found the book to be both highly entertaining and rather informative. I do not know if I will ever use some of the knowledge gained, but I'm glad that I at least know it's all stored in the cranium.	2002-04-16
1578199:US	52966385	R9669N9L3NOGI	0439113466	754269014	Scooby-Doo! and the Carnival Creeper (Scooby-Doo Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Laughing Elephants and Giant Blue Bears	Scooby and the gang head to Pop's Big Top Carnival for a day of food and fun. Attendance is down due to strange happenings that people are blaming on the Carnival Creeper and Pop's may have to sell his happy business. However, once the creature is spotted the carnival is deserted and it's up to Scooby and the gang to find out who the Creeper really is.<br /><br />Out of the first few books in the series this was one of the more exciting and entertaining ones. I enjoyed reading about the friendship between Bossie the Laughing Elephant and Scooby and the climax at the end is totally unexpected. Beginning readers will enjoy this book as will any Scooby-Doo fan.	2002-04-16
1579032:US	52966385	R1DN9CYQAFWLP6	0590819143	365553509	Scooby-Doo! and the Snow Monster	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Slipping and Sliding in the Snow with Scooby.	Scooby and the gang are headed for a weekend of skiing and winter fun at the Big Pine Ski Lodge. However, when they arrive the slopes are abandoned and the lodge is almost empty. Rumors and sightings of a snow monster have scared most people away. But, Fred, Daphne, and Velma aren't scared of anything (Scooby and Shaggy are scared of just about everything) and have a hunch that the snow monster isn't what it appears to be. A fun and entertaining book that I enjoyed reading. I especially liked the scenes with Scooby and the snowballs. Kids will probably enjoy this book as will any Scooby-Doo fan.	2002-04-15
1579460:US	52966385	RC8L136TPV4WC	0590819100	396963746	Scooby-Doo! and the Mummy's Curse (Scooby-Doo! Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Where's My Daddy.	Scooby and the gang are in Hollywood to watch the filming of a movie, THE SANDS OF CAIRO, live on set courtesy of Daphne's uncle. Shaggy and Scooby soon discover the abundance of food, while the rest of the gang becomes suspicious of strange going-ons (pillars collapsing, tents blowing down, fake coconuts falling) that are apparently the result of a mummy's curse that has fallen on the movie set. The book is filled with great illustrations and the story is fun to read. I especially enjoyed this book in the series because it takes place in Hollywood.	2002-04-15
1580998:US	52966385	R19Z91JS5G78S4	0679834583	325994887	Tracking Thomas the Tank Engine and His Friends: A Book with Finger Tabs	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Much Imagination.	Aimed at really young readers, this board book serves best as an introduction to Thomas the Tank and his friends. The stories are extremely short and are told using lacid language and the cartoon illustrations that have become so familiar. Each of the six mini-miniture tales are accompanied by a finger tab so young readers can flip to their favorite. There are a lot of better Thomas books out there, but really young fans of Thomas and those who have never met Thomas and his friends, will enjoy this paltry book the most.	2002-04-13
1581123:US	52966385	RLY22UH9OWW41	0694011088	454724842	Cow Moo Me (Harper Growing Tree)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Amusing	Older infants and toddlers will probably enjoy leafing through this book. There aren't many words here and what language there is, is written in a silly and whimsical fashion that isn't that musical or poetic. However, the book does introduce the sounds of various animals (e.g. cows, chickens, pigs, bees, etc.) in a way that appeals to very young children. Also, some of the illustrations are rather amusing, causing children to laugh. Recommended for children two years and younger.	2002-04-13
1581138:US	52966385	R265TZVG6S3UUF	0694004634	619675174	Butterfly: My First Wildlife Book/Includes 3-D Butterfly (Life Cycles)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	There's a Treat At The End.	This simple little book illustrates the life of a butterfly. From an egg to a caterpillar to butterfly. The illustrations are bright and colorful and can capture a child's imagination. The book is quite short and the last page contains a 3-D pop-up of a full grown butterfly.	2002-04-13
1582483:US	52966385	RS42ND0ZD19NB	0698115597	203137661	The Reason for a Flower: A Book About Flowers, Pollen, and Seeds (Explore!)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Why We Have Flowers?	Children are constantly asking questions and sometimes they come up with a question you have difficulty answering, such as \\"why do we have flowers?\\". This book answers that question in a way that is both fascinating and entertaining for both children and adults. The illustrations in this book were quite lovely and almost tell a story themselves. The rhythmic cadence of the words introduces children to a biological vocabulary without being overwhelming, describes the different parts of the plants, explains the process of pollination, and illustrates what value plants have beyond just \\"something pretty to look.\\" This book is a great book for teachers of young children for science related curriculm.	2002-04-12
1582784:US	52966385	RVSUQW7PLE6YY	0590819097	771706991	Scooby-Doo! and the Haunted Castle	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scooby Boo?	Scooby and the gang are on their way to a movie when one of the Mystery Machine's tires blows out. They plan on putting on the spare only to discover that Shaggy and Scooby have replaced the tire with their \\"survival kit\\". The gang sees a mansion on the hill and treks to the door to see if they can use the phone, arriving just before a terrible storm. The owner's phone is out because of the storm but insists that they stay for dinner. Several guests are in attendance, but when the lights go out, the man who owns the castle disappears and in his place is a ghost!<br />This book is a fast read (for just about any age level) and feels just like a Scooby cartoon. I loved the illustrations that accompany the text. A book that just about any Scooby fan will enjoy.	2002-04-12
1583945:US	52966385	REUYAEMWZJ2Y9	0374424837	563257840	From Acorn to Zoo: and Everything in Between in Alphabetical Order	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Learning the Letters.	This is an entertaining alphabet book that does more than help children learn the ABC's. It also helps in increasing their vocabulary and understanding of the world. The pictures in the book look like paper cut outs pasted upon the page. Each page is filled with lots of things that start with the letter of the page. For example everything from apples to armadillos to acorns are pictured and labeled on the \\"A\\" page. At the bottom of each page is a question and an illustration that can be answered by careful examining the items listed above. For example, on the \\"D\\" page the question is \\"Why should Dog and Duck duck?\\" (the answer is dynamite). Kids enjoy looking at this book and it's fun to read to children on a one-on-one basis.	2002-04-11
1585589:US	52966385	R2VEK4QKPE8R0O	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Not Just Another Comic Book.	Comic books are often dismissed by many people as having no real value. They are usually looked upon as a hobby for boys and nostalgiac entertainment for men who have never really grown up. However, comic books can be and are often much more. At their best, comics can become a moving work of art and a powerful piece of literature all in one piece. Such is the case with BATMAN: THE KILLING JOKE.<br />THE KILLING JOKE has become a comic classic for a variety of reasons. The book's illustrations have influenced a generation of Batman artists. The book offered insight into the Joker's personality. It changed the Batman universe (by what the Joker does to Barbara Gordon). It illustrated the strong bond between Batman and Joker and displayed the differences in world view that make the men who they are. It helped inspire a major motion picture.<br />However, the comic is much more than a story about the possible origins of the Joker and how he and Batman are so strongly bonded together. The story is a reflection of two very distinct views of life: the tragic and the comic. The Joker, ironically, views life tragically believing that all it takes is \\"one bad day\\" to transform the most normal person in the world into a psychotic maniac. His is the world of chaos and injustice. He holds onto this belief even though he knows (as the last pages of the comic show) it is false. On the other hand, there is the world view of Batman. Batman's life was changed too, by \\"one bad day\\". However, Batman's view is comic. He had one bad day, too, but it turned him into a hero. His is the world of order and justice. In the end, good triumphs over evil and the tragedians are forced to laugh at all the comedy. Life truly is beautiful. I bet you believed a comic could never be so thought-provoking.	2002-04-10
1585626:US	52966385	R270Z58G5XM67U	0439082781	838306113	Scooby Doo! and the Vampire's Revenge (Scooby-Doo Mysteries, No. 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Cartoony Book.	Basically, this book is like reading a Scooby Doo cartoon. All the characters of the show (Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy, Scooby, and the Mystery Machine) are here along with all the situations the gang usually finds themselves (chased by monsters, several possible suspects, trick doors, etc.). The story takes place on Halloween. The gang has agreed to help out with a charity auction at a fancy hotel before going trick or treating for the night. One of the items up for bid is a valuable and possibly magic jewel from Transylvania. It's an item that's so valuable a vampire is out to get it. A really fun and exciting read (and it's short, too!).	2002-04-10
1589057:US	52966385	R125RBQKS6A7L8	0195016246	62798579	The Oxford Anthology of English Literature: Volume I: Medieval English Literature	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Decent Textbook.	I bought and read this anthology for my Medieval Literature class in college. The book includes an interesting introduction, parts of BEOWULF, parts of THE CANTERBURY TALES, SIR GAWAIN AND THE GREEN KNIGHT, THE WAKEFIELD SECOND SHEPHERD'S PLAY, the classic play EVERYMAN, a fragment of MORTE D'ARTHUR, and various other poems and short stories of Medieval English. Each major piece is prefaced by an introduction describing various details and history about the text. This book also includes some black and white pictures and copies of art from the period. Towards the very end of the book a glossary describing in detail medieval literary terms and such can be found. I sold most of my literary textbooks and anthologies, but I kept this one because I enjoy the literature of the period and it's also one of the more well put together anthologies that I have read. A nice reference book to have on hand if your interested in the really old and good stuff in English literature.	2002-04-07
1589919:US	52966385	R16EWKLYRGDXDW	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Basic Batman	There's a great question you can always ask someone you've just met to help break the ice: who's better Batman or Superman? Though it is so much more, THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS attempts to answer that question. Basically the story is this, Batman has been in retirement for over a decade and the world has been getting worse everyday. Other than Superman, most other superheroes have retired too, their aging bodies no longer able to keep up with their able minds. Bruce Wayne goes through a serious mid-life crisis and verges on the brink of insanity. He decides that it is time for Batman to return and help restore order and justice to the world. The only problem is that Batman can no longer fight within the system like he used to do. Instead, he has to fight outside of it. That raises concerns with his old friend Superman and eventually leads to a climatic battle between the two heroes.<br /><br />To be completely honest, I wasn't all that impressed by the art of the comic. It is true that it influenced an entire generation of comic book artists, but just because something is popular doesn't mean it is good. Also, though I was intrigued by the Batman vs. Superman; rebellious leader vs. faithful steward conflict, I was really disturbed by Miller's nihilistic world view. It is true that the world is in bad shape and continues to get worse and worse. However, I have more hope in humanity than that to believe that things will become as bad as they are in DKR. Even amidst corruption and scandal, Truth and Goodness can be found. Other than that, I found the comic to be rather entertaining and highly thought provoking. When's the last time you heard someone say that about a comic book?	2002-04-07
1592366:US	52966385	R15ARRW2JXK9SK	1856979539	963043494	White Rabbit's Color Book	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Teaching the Colors.	Out of all the books at the day care center I worked at, this by far was the favorite and most requested book of the kids. I don't know why, but whether the unit for the week was colors, animals, or Easter this book had to be read several times during story time and was often read just for fun. Surprisingly, none of we teachers ever tired of reading the book. The copy of the book at the center was read so many times that the back cover literally fell off. The book uses a white rabbit to illustrate how by mixing primary colors, secondary colors are made. Not only that but the book helps introduce children to \\"sensations\\" that colors can cause; for example white rabbit thinks dunking in blue will feel cool and that red is sizzling. A wonderful little book.	2002-04-05
1593161:US	52966385	R1IOFZOWD3GWXH	0452278449	681699987	Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	The &quot;Hollow Man&quot; Has Had a Solid Career.	This book is a companion piece to the &quot;Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon&quot; game. I've played the game a few times, but I never actually knew there was a real 'board game' game of the game until recently. I figured that the book might help me learn a bit more about that wonderful actor, Kevin Bacon, and give me an edge over my croonies in crime the next time we play the game. Unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot here. The book is quite short and basically consists of a bunch of &quot;six degrees or less&quot; lists. The introduction by Kevin Bacon himself is interesting to read and so is the history of the game. The book also has a Kevin Bacon filmography that is rather informative. However, the book needs an update because Bacon's been in several films since 1997. This book is great for any fan of Bacon, any serious film buff, and anyone who likes to play the game. If you don't fall into one of those categories, don't waste your money.	2002-04-04
1593396:US	52966385	R6WM1TTWBUK2A	0849959845	354524320	Junior's Colors (Veggiecational Ser)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More Than Just Colors.	Little kids love this book that stars Junior Asparagus. Junior opens his color box and with a little help from his friends, shows his favorite colors. This book is more interesting and entertaining than many color books. It also provides some laughs (even for adults) and has a lesson about God. Great book for kids three and younger.	2002-04-04
1596248:US	52966385	R1TXRVDORIKXW1	0152010661	491294998	Time for Bed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful.	This book doesn't really have a plot, but shows various mother animals putting their babies to bed. The book's words are written in rhyming couplets which provide a soothing rhythm that enhances an atmosphere of peace. The illustrations of the various animals (and people) are beautiful and add to the comforting tone of the  book. Really young children love this book and it is a book that one doesn't tire of reading.	2002-04-02
1596259:US	52966385	R1JJQUNQFME4XL	0590270303	676071298	Have You Seen Birds?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Birds, Birds, Birds.	This charming little book uses alliteration, assonance, and rhyming words to describe various types of birds and how they live. The sentences are written in poetry that's cadence and structure enhances the types of birds being discussed. The claymation illustrations are playful and capture children's imagination, but without distracting from the focus of the book's lessons. A fun book to read.	2002-04-02
1596282:US	52966385	R3E1R6QM82JJKX	0590761579	409650802	Baby Animals Learn (Science Emergent Reader) (Bk. 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What Do Baby Animals Do?	This little book is filled with mostly pictures of baby animals and their parents. Most of the animals in the book are mammals including bears, wolves, deer, and chimpanzes. Each page has a picture with a one line sentence describing what the baby animals are learning. The last page of the book is a tool useful for parents, teachers, and other educators when using the book as a teaching tool. Young children love pointing at the pictures of the different animals and describing what they are doing.	2002-04-02
1596690:US	52966385	R37VT6WC3XVGM7	0439045967	382686407	Patterns (Emergent Readers)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Look Around the World.	This book illustrates to young children that our world is filled with patterns. Almost anywhere you look, a pattern can be found. On animals, clothes, plants, quilts, and many other things patterns are inlaid. Some of the patterns discussed and illustrated are stripes, rows, polka dots, stars, plaid, ripples, stars, and various shapes. A good book that helps introduce young children to the mathematical design of the universe found in everyday life.	2002-04-02
1596710:US	52966385	R2FDEUYA4I70DU	0688087450	321839559	On Market Street	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of the Best Alphabet Books.	Most alphabet books serve the purpose they were made for, to help children learn the ABC's, but are full of mediocrity. Some are just plain awful. However, ever now and again an alphabet book is discovered that is pure genius. ON MARKET STREET is such a book. Not only is the book a delight to read and look at, but it includes a slight lesson in giving as well. A young girl goes to market street and buys items that start with each letter of the alphabet. The vendors that sell these items are illustrated in the wares they sell. So the apple man is made of apples and the book lady is made of books, etc. The illustrations are full of imagination and help children associate letters with certain pictures. A delightful book that kids love having read to them.	2002-04-02
1599048:US	52966385	R2AGRY2XHV3R09	0307159515	280297445	Dick Tracy: The Movie Storybook	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Movie is Better.	This book is the offical movie storybook for the movie DICK TRACY. The book is written rather simple and is aimed at middle school aged children. The book has a lot of photographs from the film and a few that didn't make the movie's final cut. The story stays pretty accurate to the movie, but there are a few differences (e.g. the identity of The Blank is not revealed in this book). Fans of the film may enjoy owning this and even today kids enjoy Dick Tracy. There's just something about that cool walkie-talkie wristwatch and the perfect cop.	2002-03-31
1601121:US	52966385	R16XEUUDIA29NV	0399226281	149522877	I Love You, Sun, I Love You, Moon	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A lesson in caring.	There is no plot to this book. The words are simple (usually no longer than five letters) and the illustrations are full of color and vitality. Basically, children from all different cultures express what they like in the world by saying, \\"I love you, ___ (fill in the blank). For example, \\"I love you, fish\\"; \\"I love you, sun\\". The book, though as infantile as it is, has a subtle message about caring for others and the environment. Infants and young toddlers seem to enjoy this book, but I wouldn't reccommend it to anyone over the age of two.	2002-03-29
1602082:US	52966385	RXSIATP33QV0Y	0064451070	921866035	How a Seed Grows (Let's-Read-and-Find-Out Science 1)	Books	4	42	47	N	N	Life Springing Forth.	This book should have been more appropriately titled HOW TO WATCH A SEED GROW. Instead of discussing the various stages of development and explaining what happens, the book is basically an extended science project explaining how students can watch a seed grow into a plant. The book talks about the different stages, but only discusses what the planted beans should look like in those stages, not really explaining what is happening or why. Nevertheless, the book does outline a good science project for younger children, but isn't much as a book to read to kids.	2002-03-28
1603022:US	52966385	R142KKCQVQWULU	051788593X	639033141	Row Row Row Your Boat	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What Happens Next?	Everybody knows the song, \\"Row, Row, Row Your Boat\\", but what happens after the boat leaves the stream? In this short little tale two children set out in the boat to open sea, landing on an island filled with exotic creatures. The book is filled with very warm illustrations and the book inspires inspiration and creativity in children, challenging them to imagine and think for themselves.	2002-03-27
1603172:US	52966385	R2TQWGCNKS8IZC	0763606456	930659213	Cows in the Kitchen	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Shoo, Cow Don't Bother Me.	This story (which can be sung to \\"Shoo Fly, Don't Bother Me\\") tells about the mess and havoc a bunch of farm animals cause while lazy Tom Farmer is asleep on the hay in the barn. He eventually awakens to chase them away, but those barnyard critters are a lot smarter than Tom thinks. The book is written in a repetitive style using onomatopoeia (oink, oink oink; shoo, shoo, shoo; shhh, shhh, shhh) and contains some very fun and cartoony watercolor and pencil illustrations. It's also a lot of fun to look for the little white mouse that is hiding on each page. Preschoolers really enjoy this book and it is fun to read as well.	2002-03-27
1605359:US	52966385	R2BEYHVEDBB2S0	078680596X	626354884	The Lot At the End of My Block	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A surprise at the end of the book.	This book is about a boy watching a new apartment complex being built at the end of his block. The book is written in the repetitive style like \\"The House That Jack Built\\" and songs that are sung in rounds. It is also written in rhymes. Young children really enjoy construction stories and pictures (look at the Bob the Builder series) and this book is not only fun to listen to and read, but introduces children to a few construction terms as well. A delightful little book.	2002-03-26
1611043:US	52966385	R31QYJHDTLXDX2	0060938153	117492865	Ice Age: The Movie Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Boy It's Cold.	This novelization of the hit movie ICE AGE tells the story of the movie in a written form that just about anyone over the age of eight can understand. The book starts off the same way the movie does, with a prologue concerning Scrat. However, unlike the film, Scrat doesn't make a return appearance until the end of the book. The book makes some things in the movie clearer (such as Manny's family) and there are a few slight differences that the filmmakers must have changed to improve the flow of the film; the largest of these being the sloth Sylvia who has a strong attraction to Sidney. Several photos from the movie are included. The only complaint about the book is that it doesn't move quite as fast as the film. However, it's still a delightful story. Overall, not a bad book and one that fans of the film will probably enjoy reading.	2002-03-21
1612550:US	52966385	R1BBFCE6ML9KY	0874869870	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom Of Cassie Bernall	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Listen to the Story	The only really negative thing I found about this book is it's title. This book really isn't about the murders at Columbine, what (or what not) Cassie Bernall's last words were, or whether or not Cassie Bernall was a martyr (I don't think her mother believed her to be; don't people read subtitles this is the UNLIKELY Martyrdom of Cassie Bernall; key word UNLIKELY). This is a book about a mother whose daughter was taken away before her youth had even begun. It is a story about how a troubled young woman was redeemed by Jesus and had her life transformed. It is an easy book to read and at times it is inspiring. Anyone who works with youth and many youth/young adults could gain some insight from reading this book.<br /><br />With that said, I must take a moment and say something that will probably be edited and censored. I am appalled at what some people have written in their so called &#34;reviews&#34; about this book. There's nothing wrong with a negative review as long as that review deals with the content of the item being reviewed. However, it is wrong to be attacking and libeling the character of an individual about whom you know nothing. We will never know what was truly said during the Columbine murders. Even to this day after most of the so-called &#34;facts&#34; have come to light, we can never be sure of what happened. Accounts of what was said and what was spoken vary (not to mention all of the politics involved and stories that were changed after the fact). It is the same thing in any major mass tragedy; ten people see the same accident or hear a noise and not one of the accounts will be the same. It is the nature of the beast. I know I've gotten off track here myself, but let's all try to stick with the content from now on people. Off the soapbox.	2002-03-20
1614915:US	52966385	R2NKO4Y46RTQW	0618154035	545294814	The Lord of the Rings Official Movie Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Behind the Scenes Look.	This book is a wonderful companion for anyone who enjoyed (or is looking forward to seeing) the movie and would like to know more about how the film came about. The book includes a small biography about Peter Jackson and how he came to direct the all-time most vast filming in movie history. A great deal of information from the pre-pre-production aspects of filming to the 14 months of filming itself to the post-production is detailed. There are lots of pictures and many interviews with the cast and crew. The undertaking of the film was huge and for those unfamiliar with the movie making process, this book will help explain just how monumental of a task THE LORD OF THE RINGS movies were. By only complaint about the book is that it is titled THE LORD OF THE RINGS Movie Guide when in reality it is THE LORD OF THE RINGS: FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING movie guide. There are no pictures and very little information concerning the two yet-to-be-released films that complete THE LORD OF THE RINGS. It doesn't bother me that the information isn't there, but the book should be labeled as such then.	2002-03-18
1618840:US	52966385	R17AL25SVCPPBS	0590761609	732976513	Butterfly (Science Emergent Reader)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Amazing.	Using brilliantly colored photographs and simplistic scientific words, this book introduces children to the amazing life cycle of a butterfly. From egg to caterpillar to cocoon (chrysalis) to winged monarch the entire life of a monarch butterfly is explored. The last page of the book includes valuable information that will help teachers, parents, and other adults in answering children's questions.	2002-03-15
1618883:US	52966385	R3HS2GDW8SU9L2	B000FWHU4M	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez: Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Popularizing Obscurity	Even though I am a student of the Bible and have read the Good Book several times through, I had never heard of Jabez or his prayer until Bruce Wilkinson's book became a national bestseller. Though that popularity helped me discover and learn about an obscure Old Testament figure, I was reluctant to read the book because of it's popularity (I have often found that popular success often means watered-down Christianity). Several years later I have finally read the book and have been surprised. The book takes the prayer of Jabez and examines how it can be applied to our own lives in a practical manner. The book does not support a \\"step by step\\" faith; if you do this, God will do this. Instead it focuses on how by earnestly praying Jabez's prayer and opening ourselves to God's will, we can begin to experience a blessed life (though the blessings may not be what we would imagine them to be).<br /><br />I only have two complaints with the book. One is that it is so short that Wilkinson doesn't really take enough time to expand upon his thesis; the book kind of feels like a college essay rushed together so the student could turn it in on time. The other negative point is that even though the book makes a statement that the most important thing about praying is the spirit of the prayer and not the words, the point is not made clear enough. It needed to be repeated so that people would not become confused.<br /><br />The book is interesting and it's message is worth reading. After all, how often does one get to read about a popularized obscure Biblical figure?	2002-03-15
1623360:US	52966385	R1CRIU8V25UAZ6	0590761625	259800171	From Egg To Robin (Science Emergent Readers)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	All About A Bird.	This book pictures the various stages of development of a robin, from the speckled-blue eggs that they hatch from to the adult birds they eventually grow. The book is short, but the pictures are quite vivid and spark interest from youngsters. There is a section at the very end of the book to help teachers, parents, and other adults help teach and explain more to curious minds.	2002-03-12
1625587:US	52966385	R21MTB9M1RAZVM	0688094473	933487220	You Gotta Believe!: Education + Hard Work Minus Drugs = the American Dream	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Overcoming the Odds.	This is the biography of Drew T. Brown III, son of Bundini Brown, Muhammad Ali's personal trainer. Brown had an interesting, albeit unusual childhood. I found it intriguing to read about his various exploits. It was also encouraging to read about one who had so much, yet at the same time had so much against him, rise above and overcome the odds. An interesting autobiography.	2002-03-10
1630953:US	52966385	R2PJHTYCYC476F	0590761595	592307291	Frogs (Science Emergent Readers)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's Not Easy Being Green.	Through simple words combined with bright and colorful photographs, the authors illustrate the life cycle of a frog to young children. From egg to tadpole to frog. The last page of the book includes lots of useful information for teachers that can help answer questions concering the text.	2002-03-05
1631507:US	52966385	R2FHLKWFRCR5NM	0823412016	619554814	Emergency!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Response Vehicles.	This short, yet informative book discusses the various vehicles that emergency services use. Services ranging from the police to the fire department to ambulance services to the Coast Guard are discussed. The book illustrates in action the various vehicles these emergency services use: everything from cars, trucks, boats, helicopters, and even planes. The book is written in a simple manner, yet in such a way that young children become more informed and better understand the jobs of those who serve and protect. The last few pages of the book contains a short history of fire, police, and ambulance vehicles of the past.	2002-03-05
1631892:US	52966385	R2MM3DA6ONGOHA	0805022643	834341226	In the Small, Small Pond (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Life in a Pond.	Using strong alliteration and assonance and colorful paintings, this book introduces children to the lively environment of a pond. Children are often surprised to discover that in the still waters of a pond everything from frogs, geese, dragonflys, swallows, turtles, heron, fish, bugs, and even a racoon live in and around the water. Fleming won a Caldecott Honor in 1994 for the lively illustrations in this book.	2002-03-05
1634807:US	52966385	R1DYM3FGRRD14S	0439045991	768116655	Numbers (Emergent Readers)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What Good Are Numbers?	Using brightly colored and extremely vivid photographs, this book attempts to teach children the value of numbers. Numbers are used to weigh things, tell people where to go, tell how tall or long something is, and are used to tell time. A great book for introducing young children to the importance of numbers.	2002-03-02
1636266:US	52966385	R3VYMY104VA6AF	0394800273	929316323	Snow (I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's Snow!	This book is written in the same type of rhyming style that made Dr. Suess' books so famous. However, unlike the good Doctor there aren't any made up words in this book. The rhyming story tells of two siblings adventures in the snow: from sledding to snowball fights to building an igloo. The vocubulary is simple enough that doesn't make reading difficult for younger readers, yet it is challenging enough so that young readers improve their skills without realizing it. The illustrations that accompany the test are delightful. Children love listening to this book and often squeal with laughter at several scenes.	2002-03-01
1639626:US	52966385	R3CZG4LP2O4B0R	0679882804	696118215	The Foot Book: Dr. Seuss's Wacky Book of Opposites	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Feet, Feet, and More Feet.	In this rhyming book, the good Dr. uses feet as a way to talk about opposites. The words are simple, yet subtly build vocabularies and unlike many Dr. Suess books, there aren't very many made-up words. Little children love this book.	2002-02-27
1643557:US	52966385	R1A8X0CJWFWPST	0452275288	596153777	Brighton Beach Memoirs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's In the Family	There is a reason that Neil Simon is revered by the public, yet basted by critics. His plays contain characters and situations that just about anyone can relate with. BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS is based upon Simon's youth. It is a family play; not only is it about a family, it is a play that the whole family will enjoy. Lots of laughs and tons of fun.	2002-02-23
1643644:US	52966385	R1PHKZRMSWJEN6	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The End of This Tale.	In this life, all good things must come to an end and so must all journeys. THE RETURN OF THE KING is the third and final part of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. This final climatic chapter in Tolkien's masterpiece brings not only the War of the Ring to a close, but it tells of the final days of Middle Earth as well and the beginning of the Fourth Age, the Age of Man.<br />Sam is left to rescue Frodo from the Dark Tower while Merry, Pippin, and Gandalf wage war in defense of Gondor. Meanwhile Aragorn has gone with a small host, including Gimli and Legolas, to fufill a prophecy and pay an old debt. The days were never darker and Sauron's power grows even admist the victories of light. Still all have a role to play (even Gollum) and things aren't always what they seem.<br />THE RETURN OF THE KING ends bittersweetly as one parts with the companions they have traveled with so long. Yet, life goes on and so must we all. Though this journey ends, there is another waiting to begin just around the corner.	2002-02-23
1643995:US	52966385	R3KNXZU5758EDI	0830718664	191161739	Turning Vision into Action	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Get Busy.	A lot of people and organizations have no vision. Their lives and structures are chaotic because of their lack. Once vision is achieved things become more clearer. However, the vision isn't worth much unless it is turned into action. That is a very difficult thing to do. In TURNING VISION INTO ACTION, George Barna explains how anyone or any organization can take their vision and turn it into a material reality. This book is great for any church leader or for anyone who is struggling to find out what God's plan for their life is.	2002-02-23
1644036:US	52966385	R2Q2IFJYXR9IZH	0590021745	872122211	The Fat Cat:  A Danish Folktale	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Fun.	This story is an old Danish folktale as told by Jack Kent and like most folktales it is a little morbid, but contains a moral. The fat cat is a greedy little feline who is supposed to watch over her owner's gruel, but instead eats the whole thing \\"and the pot.\\" But the cat isn't satisfied and continues eating until she becomes a somewhat humorous monster.<br />The children at the day care I worked at loved this story and I love reading it.	2002-02-23
1644267:US	52966385	R11ZN0S9BYR1GI	0064451860	131118348	Snow Is Falling (Let's-Read-and-Find-Out Science, Stage 1)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	What Good Is Snow?	Rather than attempting to explain how snow is made, this book discusses the good and bad things about snow. For instance, snow protects plants and animals from harsh winds and can keep things warm. However, snow can also bury food for animals and cause floods in the spring. This book is fairly easy for pre-schoolers to understand though there are a few difficult words they have trouble understanding at first (thermometer and temperature). The illustrations that accompany the text are colorful, yet not overpowering. A great science book to use for preschoolers when talking about winter.	2002-02-23
1652422:US	52966385	R1DJ1UUU5LM22Q	0062509373	495578543	Book of the Dun Cow, The	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Fable for All-time.	THE BOOK OF THE DUN COW is a highly entertaining, yet serious thought provoking novel that uses animals instead of people to tell about the universal battle between good and evil that continues to this day. Though the characters of the book are animals, the story is more allegorical, like C.S. Lewis' CHRONICLES OF NARNIA rather than satirical like George Orwell's ANIMAL FARM. The characterization is deep and the actions believable. The book is full of Christian symbolism and dives deep into issues of faith. Yet, with all the multi-layers and profound meaning, the book is never weighed down by it's depth and proves to be a page-turning, great story that is hard to put down.	2002-02-16
1652470:US	52966385	R32O848FJUVHR7	0881885762	605332471	Favorite Songs From Jim Henson's Muppets	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Some of the Best.	This book includes the music and lyrics for some of the best and all time favorite songs of The Muppets. Songs from Sesame Street, The Muppet movies, and even &quot;Muppet Babies&quot; are included. Two of my favorites are &quot;The Rainbow Connection&quot; and &quot;The Muppet Show Theme&quot;. Great for Muppet fans and useful for anyone who has a piano.	2002-02-16
1657091:US	52966385	R12PQ4T570OGN7	0786881046	505457356	Pulp Fiction: A Quentin Tarantino Screenplay	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not Pulp Dialog	This is the screenplay to one of the most critically acclaimed films of the 1990's. I must admit that I'm not that big of a fan of Quentin Tarantino. His films are ultra-violent, portray a negative view of humanity, and often leave something lacking in the plot. However, I will grant that Tarantino is a great writer. His characters are fully fleshed-out and the words they speak are full of wit and humour. He also does some interesting things in connecting seemingly unrelated events and characters.<br /><br />This screenplay includes all the dialogue of the film with a few pieces that were deleted. There are also some pictures from the movie and an introduction. Great for any Tarantino fan or any serious film buff.	2002-02-12
1657518:US	52966385	R2NT4NC2DLKAK9	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not Too Much Here.	This book is supposedly based upon Mark Burnett's journal of his forty days behind the scenes of the first SURVIVOR. There isn't a whole lot of new information here and there are many typos. Everything in the book is filtered through the mind of Burnett, which has positive and negatives. Positive: readers are given insight into how Burnett felt about the players of the game (he had several favorites and there were a few people he didn't like at all) and it's interesting to see how those feelings may have influenced parts of the show. Negative: much of what Burnett tells is old news, it's as though he was trying to reach a different audience with the book than he was with the show and therefore tried not to offend too many people. The book is simple to read (I flew through it in a day) and fairly entertaining. Fans of the show may enjoy it and it makes a good primer for anyone who has never seen the show.	2002-02-12
1657939:US	52966385	RW6U5IXLNZ6O0	1557043663	4363361	Merlin: The Shooting Script (Newmarket Shooting Script)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mystical.	This is the shooting script to the most watched miniseries of 1998. All of the film's wonderful dialogue is included here along with some things that were cut and weren't seen in the miniseries. This edition also includes a short history about the film, a fine introduction, some pictures, and cast &amp; crew notes. Great for any fan of the miniseries, any lover of King Arthur lore, or any serious film student.	2002-02-12
1661000:US	52966385	R1FGP71YPSEG1Z	0786882638	929654718	Clerks and Chasing Amy: Two Screenplays	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Looking for Wit in the Sewers	Kevin Smith is a talented person; he's a great writer, not too bad of a filmmaker, and isn't too shabby of an artist. Like me, the guy is immersed in popular culture. His films and much of his writing is filled with wit, sarcastic humor, and intelligent thought.<br /><br />However, Kevin Smith isn't the most positive, moral, or uplifting artist. His films are filled with filthy language and sexuality that many people find degrading. The screenplays to CLERKS/CHASING AMY are no exception. They are filled with the wit and humor that Smith is known for, but with the usual crudeness as well.<br /><br />This book includes the full screenplays to both CLERKS and CHASING AMY, complete with all the original dialogue and scenes. A delightful introduction by Smith is found at the beginning of the book and about halfway through the parts of a comic about a famous duo (no, not Batman & Robin; nor is it Jay & Silent Bob) are found.<br /><br />Overall, a book that Kevin Smith fans will want to have and one that film buffs may enjoy reading. Other than that, who knows.	2002-02-09
1666642:US	52966385	R19SWLYKCFCTK2	1570821739	985298677	The Hunchback of Notre Dame	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Visuals	This book is the literary edition of Disney's THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME. It stays true to the Disney version of the story and has a lot of wonderful illustrations that you won't find in other book versions of the film. After all other than the music, the animation is the best part of the movie. As for story, if you're looking for the literary masterpiece written by Victor Hugo, you won't find it here. Disney totally butchered Hugo's tale (in Hugo's story: Phoebus isn't a hero, just a horny hunk who's filled with lust; Claude Frollo isn't evil, he is overcome by his lust and desire for Esmeralda; Esmeralda isn't the brightest person in the world; and the story doesn't end all that happily) and the book remains true to that movie.	2002-02-05
1668809:US	52966385	R290E90OK1MZ38	0590066560	818338466	The Empire Strikes Back: A Storybook (Star Wars Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Story Continues	This children's adaptation of the original STAR WARS saga is the second of a three book trilogy. It is supposedly written for an audience of 9-12 year-olds. Nevertheless, the writing could be a lot better; if it weren't for the pictures and few illustrations most kids in the projected age range would be completely bored by the book. Not only that, but this version of the story leaves huge holes in the \\"real story's\\" plot. Also, there is no picture of the Millenium Falcon escaping the space slug (one of the best scenes in the film), nor or there any pictures of Boba Fett (there is, however, one slight illustration of that great bounty hunter). This book is probably best for the youngest of STAR WARS fans and those who are most fanatical.	2002-02-03
1670943:US	52966385	R2KG4W4R12Z0JJ	189556266X	183058054	Thank You, God, for Me	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Little Kid's Book.	This short little book is really more of a prayer than a book. It is based on Psalm 8 in The Bible. The main message of the book is that God has created all things, including people, but people are especially unique and one should be thankful that God has created them the way they are. This tiny book includes some colorful and warm illustrations to accompany the text. Overall, very short, but contains an important message that children need to hear over and over.	2002-02-01
1671275:US	52966385	R1WWK07T0JHQNR	0698113942	923322089	Grandfather Twilight (Paperstar Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Why the Moon is in the Sky.	This is a very simple story about Grandfather Twilight,  vivid old man who looks like the early evening sky. Each day when work is through, Grandfather Twilight takes a pearl from a treasure chest and goes for a walk to the sea, holding the pearl in the open palm of his hand. At the end of his walk, Grandfather Twilight places the pearl in the sky.<br />An interesting idea. Also, the illustrations, especially those of Grandfather Twilight, are a delight to look at.	2002-02-01
1671505:US	52966385	RSCAIL6VOKXS4	1562926284	878492437	The Wonder of America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Land That We Love.	Though this book is filled with history, this isn't the typical history book. The book is filled with two pages stories explaining the stories behind the stories. How was the Ferris Wheel invented? Where did the hot dog come from? Ever wondered who invented the game of MONOPOLY? The common theme in each of these short tales is that they are all about America. Each story, and the book as a whole, is inspiring, uplifting, and motivating. Reading this book should fill one with awe and pride at being an American. And for those who aren't Americans, well our country always has been, is, and always will be filled with people like the ones in this book.	2002-02-01
1674370:US	52966385	R1LG51UCCRPGUK	0590066544	660403930	Star Wars: A Storybook (Star Wars Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not As Good As the Movie	This storybook was given to me as a birthday gift a couple years ago. I must say, it doesn't quite compare to some other storybook adaptations that I have read. It includes a lot of pictures from the movie and a few blue-printed drawings of various characters and vehicles. However, the storytelling is choppy and for the book's length (48 pages), it cuts out a lot of good material and fails to tie various scenes together. Granted, this book was written for ten-year-old kids and I also recognize that Lucas' moviemaking makes a lot of quick cuts from scene to scenes. However, this book still could have been written a little better. Anyway, a book, even a children's book, is a total different medium from a movie	2002-01-30
1678074:US	52966385	R3GPT9SUV0W19F	0689823991	139709273	The Saturday Kid	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Blast From The Past.	Kids enjoy looking at pictures and contrary to popular opinion, usually enjoy learning about the past. THE SATURDAY KID is a book they are sure to love.<br />The story revolves around a young boy named Leo. Leo spends his Saturdays at the movies and often spends his free time imagining he's a part of the adventures he has seen. Leo also plays the violin really, really well.  One Saturday Leo gets kicked out of the movie house because of a brat named Morty. Leo doesn't seek revenge, but in the end Morty gets his due and comes to respect Leo (we hope).<br />The story is a good one and has lessons of tolerance and good triumphing over evil. However, the real star of the book are the illustrations. Sorels delightful watercolors of 1930's New York are playful and nosalgic, bringing to life a world that has long since passed away. Saturdays used to be dominated by play and days spent watching movies in theatres more grand than any modern Broadway stage. Ushers used to ush at movies and films were cheaper to watch than a pack of bubble gum. Those days are gone, but are brought to life once more in THE SATURDAY KID.<br />Overall, a delightful book that children will love and one that adults may enjoy even more.	2002-01-27
1678388:US	52966385	RCSRLZ3JDO4X	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Adventure Continues.	THE TWO TOWERS is the second part of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. As mentioned elsewhere, it is a shame that THE LORD OF THE RINGS was originally printed in three separate volumes except in the one whole that Tolkien intended because now we constantly have to refer to the three pieces of the whole distinctively.  With that said, THE TWO TOWERS is a grand follow up of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING.<br />The book begins exactly where THE FELLOWSHIP ended, with Frodo and Sam setting forth together to fufill the grand quest and the remaining members of the fellowship left fighting orcs of Sauron and the Uruk-hai (that develish breeding of orcs and goblins) of Saruman. The book begins on a sour note with the fellowhip tearing asunder and the death of Boromir and ends even more dismal with the separation of Frodo and Sam and Frodo's capture. Nevertheless, there is a great amount of hope in THE TWO TOWERS. Treebeard and the Ents arise from a sleeping living to avenge themselves on their former friend and neighbor, Saruman, and the forces of good win a great victory at Helm's Deep.<br />However, the best part of THE TWO TOWERS are the lessons of friendship, love, and loyalty that it contains. The novel begins with the fellowship torn asunder: Boromir is killed; Merry and Pippin are captured by orcs; and Frodo and Sam leave on their own. Aragorn makes a difficult decision; realizing that Frodo has made his own decision; and attempts a rescue of Merry and Pippin. He would have followed Frodo all the way to Mt. Doom but chose instead to help the companions that could least help themselves.<br />Later in the novel and even greater act of love is displayed by Samwise Gamgee. No spoilers told, but Sam shows in THE TWO TOWERS that the Baggins aren't the only hobbits who can do great deeds (a lesson even illustrated more in THE RETURN OF THE KING by Merry and Pippin) and his devotion to Frodo is the stuff that true friendships are made. Even in the darkest hour things aren't as hopeless as they seem.they seem.	2002-01-26
1678959:US	52966385	R951JOGA3G216	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Down and Out in College.	At one point or another, most of us have been broke. Some never get the opportunity to leave brokedom and therefore may not find the adventures in this book all too humorous (some people really can't get a checking account and have to spend their lives getting money through a check cashing joint). With that said, THE BROKE DIARIES is a humorous look at being a broke college student at an Ivy League school. Most of this book was originally published on a website by the author as she was writing it. However, at times the book seems more like a memoir than a diary. Of course, in order to protect the identity of certain people (such as the chicken raising deacon and other folks); that's probably the reason for the memoir-likeness of this diary. The book is rather funny and includes a lot of memorable scenes (smoking guy in funeral limo; college wannabe; eyeball gouging cat). But the best part of the book is the remembering it causes the reader of broke days that are past (or of the hope that is yet to come for those still broke).	2002-01-26
1688674:US	52966385	R1PJ3ANA0RN0B6	0786801557	775395225	Engine Engine Number Nine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Where She Stops, Does Anyone Know?	This rhyming book tells the tale of Engine Number Nine on a destination unknown. Along the way a variety of passengers are picked up; from farmers and their pigs, to mothers and their crying babies, to an entire marching band. Where is the train full of motley passengers going? That's the simple riddle in this easy to follow story. The colorful illustrations are fun to look at and add a dash of flavor to this playful book.	2002-01-18
1695493:US	52966385	R2NMK9TWO3YR84	1580612563	292882269	My Utmost for His Highest (spiral flip calendar)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The Best of the Best.	If it wasn't for Oswald Chamber's wife, MY UTMOST FOR HIS HIGHEST would never have been published. After Chamber's death, his wife collected some of his writings together into this devotional book. Praise God for such a woman of noble character.MY UTMOST FOR HIS HIGHEST is one of the best daily devotions around. Chambers doesn't mess around with wishy-washy, look-at-the-Jesus-in-my-pocket Christianity. Instead, he delves deep into the essence of what it means to be a Christian. Chambers knew the importance of a moment and this book is full of wisdom in living a life pressed out to the best, giving one's utmost for His highest. There isn't another daily devotion to compare.	2002-01-13
1696707:US	52966385	R35CXY73YL8WU3	0899006655	213107629	Plant Your Dreams My Child	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dare to Dream.	This children's book contains some wonderful watercolor illustrations. The book contains a message about faith, hope, love, and daring to dream. The vocabulary is simple and the words aren't too difficult to read even for beginning readers. Children enjoy looking at the book and usually enjoy listening to it being read to them. Even though the book is not a story, it does contain a good message that isn't heard enough by youngsters today.	2002-01-12
1696785:US	52966385	RWQBAMFGCY6XA	0060924357	885692835	Hollywood vs. America: The Explosive Bestseller that Shows How-and Why-the Entertainment Industry Has Broken Faith With Its Audience	Books	5	18	25	N	N	Just the Facts.	Traveling through America and talking to people about entertainment, the general consensus you will find is that most people are sick of all the garbage they hear on the radio and see on television and the movies. Yet, it seems that no matter how much people complain, the situation doesn't improve much.<br />In HOLLYWOOD VS. AMERICAN, Michael Medved explores why Hollywood is no longer in tune with the rest of America. In doing so, he also illustrates (with great statistical accuracy) the ignorance behind all the excuses the entertainment establishment gives for producing much of the garbage it does. Yet, in doing so, Medved never questions the right of people to create the garbage they do. He displays that the establishment has forgotten that with rights come great responsibilities; responsibilites that many entertainers rather seem to ignore.<br />A great, informative, insightful, and memorable book.	2002-01-12
1696974:US	52966385	R3ARQSCFT0XPUD	0684814994	379325454	The Christmas Box	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Not what I Expected.	I try to keep informed with what's going on in the world and keep up with all that is going on in popular culture. However, often I never do understand or figure out what all the fuss and hub-bub over certain books, movies, television shows, etc. is about. THE CHRISTMAS BOX does not fall into that category.<br />I had intended to read this story several yeas ago, but never got around to reading it until now. I'm so glad that I did. THE CHRISTMAS BOX is a great story. However, it is more than just a great story. At it's heart, it contains two powerful messages. The one is the story of the Gospels, &quot;For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him shall not perish but have ever lasting life.&quot; Chirstmas is not about Santa Claus; Christmas is about Jesus Christ and what His birth, death, and resurrection mean in our lives. I was quite surprised to find that the central message of Christmas was also the central message of THE CHRISTMAS BOX.<br />However, there is another important message contained within the book. Life is precious and every moment should be lived to the full. Most of us have the privilage of being around children in one way or the other; whether we have our own, or we teach them, or someone dear to us has kids. This short story brings to heart how special children are and how important the time spent with them is. These are lessons that we need to hear and be reminded of often.	2002-01-12
1696976:US	52966385	R234EVQDUV8TDH	1591127408	943364486	Pete's a Pizza (with Audio CD)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Just So Yummy	On a rainy day, Pete starts to pout because he can't play ball with his friends. So, his parents make him into a pizza. A great book filled with William Steig's wonderful illustrations. Parents are sure to enjoy playing this game with their own children.	2002-01-12
1702346:US	52966385	RRSX59W0GZCHP	0688122752	890239250	Bread, Bread, Bread (Around the World Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	It's a Small World After All.	This little book talks about bread. There aren't very many words, but the few that there are augment a child's vocabulary, yet are easy to understand. The most important part of this book are the pictures. Using pictures of people all over the world eating all kinds of different bread, helps children to begin to understand the bigger world around them. The book also illustrates how even though some things are the same, they can also be quite different. The book also contains a helpful section at the end for parents and other educators. It's a small world after all.	2002-01-08
1705099:US	52966385	RZ2DX9KXLL36A	0763602930	687751558	Ice Cream Bear	Books	4	4	4	N	N	You Scream, I Scream, We All Scream for Ice Cream.	This short little book contains a tale in rhyme about a polar bear who loves to eat ice cream. Bear loves eating ice cream, so much so that he even dreams about it. There aren't very many difficult words, but enough of a variety that it helps childrens' vocabulary. The pictures are bright and colorful and young children really enjoy listening to the story.	2002-01-06
1707912:US	52966385	R3LGW35V9WX543	0793504457	911965729	The Best Songs Ever	Books	5	178	190	N	N	Great Song Book to Have.	This collections of over 70 songs includes not only the lyrics, but music for piano and guitar as well. This book has been useful for me several times, such as when needing a song to sing at an audition or for an improvised, non-rehearsed performance. Some of the songs include:<br />All I Ask of You<br />Blue Skies<br />Can You Feel the Love Tonight<br />Climb Ev'ry Mountain<br />Imagine<br />The Lady Is a Tramp<br />Let It Be<br />Love Me Tender<br />Memory<br />My Favorite Things<br />My Funny Valentine<br />Ol' Man River<br />Piano Man<br />The Rainbow Connection<br />Somewhere Out There<br />Star Dust<br />Unchained Melody<br />When I Fall in Love<br />A Whole New World<br />Yesterday<br />This is just a small list because there are a total of 73 songs. A great song book.	2002-01-04
1709585:US	52966385	RBBU3BL9WBLSD	0843124792	587478464	Crazy Game: Penguin (Crazy Games)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It's a game, not a book.	This is actually a game and not a book. It's kind of fun. There are nine different squares with heads and tails of different colored penguins on each of the four sides. The object of the game is to match up the squares into one big square in which all the heads and tails match up. It sounds a lot easier to do than it actually is; family members have been severely frustrated after working on this game for over an hour. An entertaining and puzzling way to spend some time.	2002-01-03
1709634:US	52966385	R1953O6JQLBKDC	0836218353	539351132	Yukon Ho!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	These guys are always a blast.	Granted this collection of Calvin and Hobbes isn't quite as funny as some of the other collections. Still, it is Calvin and Hobbes and there haven't been very many comics as amusing, funny, and entertaining in the past thirty years as Calvin and Hobbes. Some of the adventures in this collection include Calvin &amp; Hobbes riding the hall rug as a magic carpet; Calvin's trip to the doctor; a family camping trip; seceding from the family and deciding to move to the Yukon (that's where the title comes from); a visit from Uncle Max; and fun with a transmorgifier gun. As usual, there is plenty of humor on several different levels and lots of social commentary.	2002-01-03
1710304:US	52966385	R2H2KIGX03MKKD	0573114447	693288722	Time of My Life (Acting Edition)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not Worth My Time	This play is depressing, sad, and meaningless. I enjoyed reading it for the style in which it is written (the play progresses backward) and some of the staging techniques are rather interesting. The theme of the play boils down to that the most precious moments in our lives are the one we don't even realize. That theme is an important one, but is overused so much it has lost much of it's impact. Still, when used correctly, it's a profound and ephipanical message. However, when used as it often is, such as in TIME OF MY LIFE, it feels pasted on and fake. Read the play if you wish, but it's really not worth the time.	2002-01-03
1712636:US	52966385	R3NQVPOWYMJ046	1562925784	75266443	Snickers from the Front Pew	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Laughter from the Vestibule.	This book was a delight to read. It's fairly easy to read (except for chapters such as 'Searching for &quot;Mr. Right&quot;' when really big theological words are used). The Hafer brothers are funny, even though it seems that sometimes they are trying too hard. Still, the book provides a lot of laughs and there are a few serious messages sprinkled throughout. A fun book that can be enjoyed by the whole family.	2002-01-01
1714834:US	52966385	R3TFC9YEME0F6Y	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A True Literary Masterpiece.	I debated whether or not to write a review for THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING. I mean, there really isn't a whole lot more that I can say that hasn't been said already. However, I decided to go ahead and add another two cents worth.<br />THE LORD OF THE RINGS is my favorite novel of all time. It's a shame that all the books weren't printed together as one when they were first published; one has to discuss each part of the series separately. Anyway, Tolkien's novel (of which this is the first part) is the granddaddy of all fantasy and science fiction. Before Tolkien came along, there really wasn't much in the realm of fantasy fiction or even science fiction. It took a master of language to write an extended sequel to a children's story he once wrote to enliven the genre. For the fact alone, Tolkien's work will remain as a classic and endure for ages to come.<br />Yet, there is more to it than that. Tolkien's masterpiece is more than something that started a new genre. It is a great story, one of the best, culminated from many great stories of the past (Shakespeare, Norse mythology, Chaucer, etc.) and imbedded in the morals of Tolkien's Christian faith. It is a story that all men long to live. It is a tale about life. It's about friendship. It's a story about death, redemption, and salvation; a tale of good triumphing over evil. Combining all those elements (and so many others) into one story is a great feat. So, here's to Tolkien and THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING. Long may it endure.	2001-12-30
1716727:US	52966385	R3E3CH7IJI2ECZ	0195077091	221226933	Iphigeneia at Aulis (Greek Tragedy in New Translations)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Ancient Greek Anti-War Play.	This ancient Greek play by the famous playwrite Euripides is a diatribe on war and the foolishness of pride. The play is often thought to be an incomplete work, but as Dimock points out in the introduction, recent discoveries suggest that IPHIGENEIA AT AULIS isn't as incomplete as once thought. This edition includes a fine introduction, several detailed notes on the text, and a glossary of proper nouns. The book is not too difficult to read and can be useful for students of the theatre and/or ancient Greek culture.	2001-12-29
1720965:US	52966385	R21VDR20AM5ZXR	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Christmas in a Flash.	This Christmas book is relatively short (+170 pages) and is easy to read. It took me a little more than two hours to finish the novel. It was an enjoyable read. However, other than the fact that I learned there are people who spend thousands of dollars at Christmas time, I didn't learn anything from the book. Nor did it move me in any serious way. I found several parts to be quite hilarious (it is a satire after all), but laughter was the only emotion I felt./The story revolves around Luther and Nora Krank (anyone catch the symbolic last name). The book opens on the Sunday after Thanksgiving as Luther and Nora send their one and only child, their daughter Blair, off to Peru to begin a term of service with the Peace Corp. As the Kranks leave the airport and make a few trips on the way home (which causes much tension between the couple), Luther gets the brilliant idea of &quot;skipping Christmas&quot;, taking a cruise, and still saving thousands of dollars. Luther's plan goes off without too many problems. But then, something happens to turn his perfect idea into shambles./Grisham's novel seems to contain a lot of fluff. However, to assume the book is nothing but fluff, is a misunderstanding. SKIPPING CHRISTMAS is a satire largely lampooning the Christmas season in middle-class America. Some have suggested the book is racist because of certain comments. This is not true; racism is just one of the many societal ills satirized in this novel. The book is written in such a way that the ideas and attitudes being lampooned, could be disregarded because of the simple way in which the story is told./Overall, an entertaining novel that won't take much time to read but will make you laugh.	2001-12-25
1726127:US	52966385	R18KLOYO276HUR	0307637239	450382370	A Charlie Brown Christmas (Golden Storybook)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Good Grief!, It's Christmas Everyone.	This delightful book successfully adapts the wonderful, classic television special of A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS to the page. The book is filled with many pictures from the special and most of the televised story remains intact in written form (about the only thing missing is Snoopy winning the decoration competition). The words and text to &quot;Hark! the Herald Angels Sing&quot; are even printed on the inside back cover. Children of all ages love this book and it is sure to be a family holiday favorite to read every year.	2001-12-20
1727965:US	52966385	R3GB5PEJ3URDTE	0345348036	544398776	The Princess Bride: S Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Really, really good (better than wood).	Like many people, I never knew about THE PRINCESS BRIDE book until after seeing the movie several times. Recently, I finally sat down and read the book and was amazed. Goldman is amazing! The book gives a lot of insight into the charcters and why they do the things they do (why does Fezzik like rhymes; exactly how did Inigo's father die; etc.). However, the story is told in such a stylish and intriguing way that it is difficult to ever put the book down until you finish reading it (Goldman writes in a style that I can only hope to emulate).It has been over twenty-five years since THE PRINCESS BRIDE first appeared and it will continue to be read for years to come. Filled with such characters as Fezzik, Inigo, Miracle Max, Buttercup, and Wesley and places such as the Cliffs of Insanity and the Zoo of Death, THE PRINCESS BRIDE is a book of pure genius. It is a classic.	2001-12-18
1740432:US	52966385	RDU2A26GD7AS7	0590120514	461229808	Trilogy Scrapbook: The Rebel Alliance (Star Wars Trilogy Scrapbook)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Good Guys.	This book is written and aimed at younger readers. The writing is rather simple, yet there are a lot of really awesome pictures from the films and a few tidbits of information that the basic fan may not even know (I learned the name of a new Rogue Squadron pilot). The book is divided into four sections each discussing a different area (the Rebel Alliance, the weapons of the Alliance, etc.). It doesn't take long to get through the book, but one may find they keep flipping back just to keep looking at the pictures. A nice little book that young readers will enjoy (especially those who think the only STAR WARS movie is THE PHANTOM MENACE) and that older readers may like to own if they are a fan.	2001-12-09
1740831:US	52966385	R3L2VRNGHKFRXA	0307609324	299608950	Snoopy's Word Book (Snoopy's Books for Beginners)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Learning new words with Snoopy and the Peanuts.	There isn't a whole lot that can be said about this book. There's less than twenty pages. Each &quot;section&quot; of the book is divided into different locations (park, baseball field, beach, etc.). At each scene the Peanuts gang is involved in various activities. There are a few sentences to compliment the action. However, this is a word book and outside of the Peanuts characters, just about every object is labeled; from balloon to water fountain to scoreboard to ocean to hot dogs and cactus. The book is a simple, but it is a Peanuts book and therefore can be more successful at helping youngsters learning new words than other word books.	2001-12-08
1742743:US	52966385	R1N9U6WOK4GGUA	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Return to Hogwarts	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE was a good book. It was filled with interesting characters, a fantastical setting, and some great dialog. However, much of the book was setting up the world in which Harry was entering. We, like Harry, had to have everything explained to us. This isn't a bad thing, but a lot of character development was delayed, because of the explanations.In CHAMBER OF SECRETS, J.K. Rowling doesn't have to do tons of explaining. The readers are already familiar with Diagon Alley, sorting, owl mail, and daily life at Hogwarts. This allows for more in-depth characterization and more intriguing story-telling.CHAMBER OF SECRETS is a fascinating and exciting book. Rowling continues just a couple months where THE SORCERER'S STONE left off. Harry is back living with the Dursleys and is miserable as ever. He hasn't heard from Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger all summer. Then one night, Harry has a surprise visitor and Harry's life turns from boredom to excitement. What awaits Harry and his friends at their second year at Hogwarts blows their first year adventures out of the water: flying cars; a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who has an ego problem; a deathday party; and a sinister creature who petrifies cats, people, and even ghosts.CHAMBER OF SECRETS is riveting. However, it is also slightly darker than THE SORCERER'S STONE. No one knows for sure what Rowling is up to, but like all great stories, you can't wait to find out what happens next.	2001-12-07
1742980:US	52966385	R2B76YERBHAOHB	0590120522	780982267	The Star Wars Trilogy Scrapbook:  The Galactic Empire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The galatic scum.	This book is aimed at younger readers. THE PHANTOM MENACE is the only STAR WARS movie many young fans know about. Therefore, many of them will find the book extremely informative, even though the most basic mature STAR WARS fan probably knows most of the information contained within the book. However, there are a lot of great pictures from the first three films that almost any fan will enjoy. Overall, a nice little scrapbook.	2001-12-06
1743011:US	52966385	R1LFDL1HE4SUJV	1887357017	819588754	True Riches	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wealth immeasurable.	The best things in life are often things that we fail to recognize because we are too busy or moving too fast and those blessings happen in the places we least expect. I know many people who unless prompted, would probably not read a book like TRUE RICHES because it's a small book; &quot;why waste time reading something so short&quot; they ask (flawed logic, I know, but it is a common response). What they fail to recognize is that sometimes it is the smallest things in life that are or can contain the biggest blessings.TRUE RICHES is a great book. It is honest, concise, and full of meaning. Todd Sinelli writes from the heart. His style is so refreshing compared to much of the muck and mush that's common in not just Christian writings, but in much of the literary world. Not only that, but Todd Sinelli is a man who knows what he's talking about. He's traveled around the world and has been a multi-millionaire twice. He's done things and been places that many just dream about. Yet, as Todd discusses in this book, true riches cannot be found in the wealth and wisdom of the world. True riches lie somewhere else. Todd has experienced the empty highs and painful lows of our material world and perhaps in reading this book, others maybe saved from making similar mistakes and find true riches.	2001-12-06
1745874:US	52966385	R3NMBQAZ7IPH7T	0786831391	554073684	The Small One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Story.	Granted this book maybe nothing like the original story. However, it does contain the heart of the original story. The message of love, sacrifice, hope, and how God has a plan for everyone comes through clear. True, most of the language is simple, but that's to be expected of a book based on a Disney film based off a classical work. Though this may not be as powerful as the original, it contains the essence of the story and for that, it's a book worth reading.	2001-12-04
1748462:US	52966385	R2YIXO3C7YV2E3	0307130681	351382460	Empire Strikes Back, The (Star Wars (Econo-Clad Hardcover))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Adventures Continue.	This children's book continues the story begun with STAR WARS. Like the previous title in the series, the book compacts most of the important plot elements of the movie in fairly easy to read language that children can understand. It also contains pictures from the movie to accompany the text. My only complaint about the book, it doesn't illustrate or discuss the scene with the asteroid monster. Good read for kids who like STAR WARS.	2001-12-03
1748776:US	52966385	RBBANFQ7KE90U	0307130673	864354474	Star Wars -- A New Hope	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great intro to Star Wars.	This children's book is a great introduction to STAR WARS. The book successfully compacts most of the important plots of the movie. It also contains some great pictures to go along with the words. A few of the words are difficult for real-young, youngsters to understand, but other than that, that's the only drawback.	2001-12-02
1749799:US	52966385	R1RCFFPOHKEFAU	0803709692	774476725	Brother Eagle, Sister Sky	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Beautifully Illustrated	The central underlying message of this book is that we are all connected in a very fragile web of life and that any damage done to one part of the web will eventually effect another. Therefore, we should give all living things the honor and respect they deserve. The words of the book are taken and adapted from Chief Seattle's message in Washington, D.C. The message has always been important, but seems more relevant in the more environmentally conscience world in which we live now. However, the illustrations in this book are beautiful and captivating; they add a great deal to the words. Children enjoy the book and understand it's meaning. A nice book.	2001-12-01
1749922:US	52966385	RLPVW5ZERBPXQ	0152015221	853730035	Friend Frog	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Simple, but not too clear.	The words and story in this book are simple. Field Mouse wants a friend, but cannot find one. Then one day he meets Frog. Field Mouse likes Frog, but feels Frog wouldn't want to be his friend because she can sing, jump, and swim. However, Field Mouse learns that she has valuable talents, too. The underlying message of the book is that we all have gifts, even the smallest and meekest among us. The message is a good one, but it isn't presented too clear. The Aesop fable about the Lion and Mouse is a much better tale. Still, really young children will like the book, even if just to look at the spectacular illustrations.	2001-12-01
1750307:US	52966385	R3AYX9E13YYZ44	0573613311	743367206	The Odd Couple: A Comedy in Three Acts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic American Comedy.	Before the movie, before the television series, before all the spin offs, there was just the play. The story is a classic spin on the buddy plot. Oscar Madison is a successful sports writer who happens to be best friends with Felix Unger, a newswriter for CBS. Each week Oscar has five of his buddies over for a Friday night game of poker. However, on one fateful night Felix fails to appear in time for the game. It turns out Felix has just been thrown out by his wife and has no place to go. Feeling sorry for his old friend, Oscar invites Felix to stay with him and be his roommate.  What ensues is a classic Neil Simon look at friendship that will endure for ages.	2001-12-01
1763641:US	52966385	R2ZEYAOUXZPA17	0671023241	978144917	Time on My Hands	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Time-tripping with history.	I found this book to be quite interesting. Though not quite up to the standard of other time travel novels, the book is an engaging read. The premise is this, a modern political activist wants to go back in time and keep Ronald Reagan from becoming President. However, he's not up to the voyage himself and convinces a travel writer, Gabriel Prince, to do it for him. Gabriel ends up making the journey several times because not only does he keep Reagan from becoming President, he also keeps getting him killed. Along the way, he also falls in love, and is pursued by a couple of 22nd century crooks who claim to own the machine. This book is a page turner and the pictures add a nice touch. I hope Delacorte writes a sequel.	2001-11-20
1763881:US	52966385	R12KJNJ2ZJU5LW	0690775652	799589715	Stories of Favorite Operas	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great introduction to operas.	This book is a delight for anyone who doesn't know anything about opera stories, but wants to learn. Personally, I've listened to very little opera in my life because though the music is enchanting, I never could understand the meaning behind the words. I picked this book up in hopes that I could at least learn the stories of some of the better known operas and appreciate the art more. I now have a better appreciation for opera and partially understand the lyrics behind some of the best known operas. This book is easy to read. Not only that, but the stories are entertaining in and of themselves. It is a testament to the art they are derived from.	2001-11-20
1766227:US	52966385	RWQHJLXY0IH08	0786882611	607801205	Swingers: A Screenplay and the Swinger's Rules	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's just so money, baby.	This is a great companion piece to the film. The screenplay differs slightly from what is spoken in the film, but this is what Favreau originally wrote and is why the movie came about. The introduction, rules, and glossary are all nice added features.	2001-11-18
1766833:US	52966385	RJDQY91LQQ0RZ	0394800133	832870420	One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish (I Can Read It All by Myself)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One, two, three, four, this book is a roar.	Dr. Seuss was a master at introducing children to reading. This book is a classic example. The simple rhyming pattern combined with the wild and fantastical illustrations, provide for a great introductory book to reading. The only drawback to this book (as is the case with about half of the good doctor's works) is that there is no story; the book is basically a collection of random rhyming phrases paired with complimentary drawings. Of course, there is amusement to this type of writing and younger children find it highly entertaining. Still, other Dr. Suess stories (such as THE CAT IN THE HAT) are just as fantastical, but include a story as well. Nevertheless, one cannot go wrong with a book by Dr. Seuss; both children and adults love his books.	2001-11-18
1766937:US	52966385	RPX95E1D1X0A6	B00005R8B7	644819379	Entertainment Weekly	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Average Joe's entertainment mag.	ENTERTAINMENT MAGAZINE is bascially to HOLLYWOOD REPORTER and VARIETY what WAL-MART and TARGET are to shopping malls. There are a few cool weekly departments (Jim Mullen's Hot Sheet, the last page Encore) and there are usually at least two good articles. What's new in movies, television, books, music, and the internet are discussed each week and about bi-monthly there are reviews for theatre. The only major drawback is that many of the writers are totally stuck on themselves and that often leads to poor and uninteresting writing. Still, if you're an Average Joe who wants to know what's going on in the world of entertainment before the guy next door and you can't afford HOLLYWOOD REPORTER or VARIETY, ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY is a great investment.	2001-11-18
1769730:US	52966385	RJPK007PUPBEW	0307681084	972780369	Richard Scarry's the Gingerbread Man	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Classic tale, beautifully illustrated.	Just about everyone knows the story of the Gingerbread Man. Contrary to what the movie SHREK shows, The Gingerbread Man was not a kind, Tiny Tim-like creature. Instead, he's a nasty little piece of baked goods that runs away from his creators, teases everyone he meets, and pushes others in wells, and knocks over their picnic baskets. Granted the Gingerbread Man had every right to run away from the little old lady and little old man, they probably would have eaten him if they caught him. But all the teasing and dangerous pranks he does later are uncalled for. Anyway, enough rambling. This story contains ths classic fairy tale of the Gingerbread Man as told and illustrated by Richard Scarry. Like all of Scarry's works it is beautifully illustrated. A great book.	2001-11-15
1770144:US	52966385	R2Q41JB97OACX6	0451523385	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Death-defying Love and Mean People	Let's admit it, as good a writer Emily Bronte was, she wasn't as good a writer as her sister, Charlotte. Her only major work, WUTHERING HEIGHTS clearly illustrates that. The writing is superior to most fiction that one reads today and the story is rather interesting. Yet, it failed to catch my attention as easily as JANE EYRE did. There are very few likeable characters in the story (the young Catherine Earnshaw, the housekeeper, and the narrator) and the ending seemed rather hasty. Nevertheless, WUTHERING HEIGHTS is a classic and for good reason. It examines a love that defies death, how important our relationships with other people are, and the value of words. It takes a while to get into the book, but once one passes the first few chapters, it's hard to put the book down.	2001-11-15
1770782:US	52966385	RK58F3BGWNJ7O	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Prophetic Words	This is a book by C.S. Lewis. What more needs to be said? Lewis never did write one bad book, whether he was writing about fantasy, sci-fi, philosophy, criticism, or whatever. In this small book (less than 100 pages) Lewis examines what is wrong with modern education and what will be the end result of the current (even today) trend: the abolition of man. Enlightening and prophetic reading.	2001-11-15
1771197:US	52966385	R29FIIR7J9TLF1	0891072926	940952346	How Should We Then Live? The Rise and Decline of Western Thought and Culture	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A compact history of western culture.	In this intriguing, thought-provoking, interesting work, Schaeffer analyzes the rise of Western culture (after the fall of Rome) and why the current society seems in such disaray. Schaeffer's thesis is bascially this: that the reason the world in which we live is in such chaos is because we no longer have a moral and ethical foundation to build upon. In as much detail as possible (that roughly 260 pages allows) Schaffer illustrates that it was because of the Judeo-Christian value-foundation of Western civilization that the rise of Western culture occurred and that it is because of the forsaking of that value base that has brought about a decline in our current civilization. Schaeffer examines everything from philosophy to history to literature to music to cinema to support his point. Though not all may agree with what Schaeffer writes, this book is full of useful information, is quite thought-provoking, and provides some great reading.	2001-11-14
1772422:US	52966385	R3VQB3L26LFHW7	1560438487	194572240	Lady in Waiting: Developing Your Love Relationships	Books	5	115	124	N	N	A Male's Perspective.	It has been asked before why a male would read such a book as LADY IN WAITING. My answer to the question is that I am sincerely interested in how the female mind works and what women expect out of a relationship. Of course, I'm often curious as to how correct books like this are concerning what men are really like (or should be like). I've read several books like this and I must say that so far LADY IN WAITING is the best.To begin with the book has a Biblical core, it's written with the Book of Ruth as it's foundation. Many books like this don't have such an indebth Biblical basis. Granted there are a few things one could argue about (I think Ruth's uncovering Boaz's feet wasn't an act of purity, but was actually quite radical and scandlous), but overall the authors are right on the money.Secondly, the book gives a positive view of men and is usually correct about the role of a man in life.Finally, this book doesn't offer false hope. Many books similar to LADY IN WAITING promise that if a women follows such and such steps, she will eventually catch her man. LADY IN WAITING offers no such promises. It is implicit in reminding the reader that only in God can a women be completely made whole, not in a husband and clearly illustrates that not all women will are meant to be married. An enjoyable and informative read, one that females will probably get even more out of than a young bachelor like myself.	2001-11-13
1772519:US	52966385	R1WUSB0QZNFDUS	0064460886	423902249	Lights! Camera! Action!: How a Movie Is Made (Reading Rainbow)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Learn How a Movie is Made.	This book was marketed as a children's book about how movies are made. Granted the language is fairly easy to understand and the pictures are simple. However, adults who have no idea how a film is made would probably get just as much if not even more out of this book than most children. Overall, a delightful little book with colorful illustrations that introduces the not so magical world of making a movie.	2001-11-13
1785098:US	52966385	R3QTDPTMJ8N2QR	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	4	149	166	N	N	Better than &quot;I Kissed Dating Goodbye&quot;.	Joshua Harris has grown in both wisdom and maturity between the time I KISSED DATING GOODBYE was published and BOY MEETS GIRL was published. The first book had some valid points; you should be friends with someone before you date them, you should only date someone you might want to eventually marry, etc. However, much of the book provides very little insight for people who have always dated (or courted) from a Biblical perspective. I didn't enjoy reading IKDG very much and got very little out of it. It seemed to me that the underlying message of the book was that if you &quot;date&quot; and don't &quot;court&quot; your wrong.However, BOY MEETS GIRL is different. Realizing the mistakes of his first book, Harris has written something more useful and practical. To begin with, Harris no longer makes a distinction between &quot;dating&quot; and &quot;courting&quot; as he did in IKDG. Secondly, Harris emphasizes that there is no set pattern, guidelines, or rules to follow to meet and date/court your future mate; God never does something the same way twice. Finally, and probably most importantly, Harris more clearly illustrates than he did in IKDG that as people we cannot look to another person to complete us. Husbands and wives can only complement each other, they can't complete each other, only Jesus can do that. The book also has a lot of useful hints and a few of the stories are quite amazing. A much better book than I KISSED DATING GOODBYE.	2001-11-04
1788100:US	52966385	R1TRQBGG67MTXJ	1565073479	559221389	Your Knight in Shining Armor: Discovering Your Lifelong Love	Books	3	16	23	N	N	Another Guy's Perspective.	It may seem strange to find a single Christian male who has read a book like this. However, it is true; I have always been interested in how females think especially when it comes to relationships with guys.  To begin with what attracted me to this book was the title. I have tried to live my life according to a code of chivalry and am curious about things associated with modern-day knights. With that said, I must say I was somewhat disappointed with this book. Granted it does contain several good messages (e.g. a person's ultimate worth is found in Christ, not a spouse) that need constant repeating in our society. However, as I was reading this book I couldn't help but feel that the book was really a &quot;how to find a mate&quot; book disguised as something else. In fact, much of the book is layed out in a step-by-step approach. Though a lot of the advice is good, some of it isn't. Also, there is no guarantee that you will find a mate if you follow all the advice in this book (the book actually never guarantees you will find a mate if you follow it's plan, however it is strongly hinted at). That's the problem with many relationship books, they offer a step-by-step plan to follow for a successful relationship, but there is no set plan that will work for everyone. God is a master Artist and everytime He does something, he does it a little different; nothing is done the same way twice. Of course, maybe the advice in this book is a lot better than I found it to be, after all I'm the one in my middle 20's who's never dated.	2001-11-01
1824665:US	52966385	R2QCO0VC2XB34	1560252545	610265876	The Coen Brothers	Books	3	6	7	N	N	What can one say?	This book is supposed to be the first authorized biography about the Coens, but to be completely honest it's not much of a biography. The book reads more like a review of the Coens and each of their films. Much of the biographical information is interesting just for the simple fact that the brothers are so elusive that anything regarding their past and how they first funded their films is a gem not to be discarded. However, most of the book is divided into chapters that review and critique each of the Coen's films. Now, I didn't mind this, but a biography is not a collection of film reviews. It seems to me that the author (though possibly a fan) just didn't feel like writing this book especially since the brothers seemed so reluctant that he was writing it. Or true to Coen style, maybe that's how they intended the book to turn out (either knowingly or unknowingly to the author). Overall, an interesting, but slow read worth the time if your a film buff.	2001-09-29
1838427:US	52966385	R3OC3UG97AFN9G	1881649644	485266825	Everything I Know I Learned at the Movies: A Compilation of Cliche's and Un-Truisms Gleaned from a Lifetime Spent Entirely Too Much in the Dark	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Sad, But True.	This book (as the subtitle says) is a humorous collections of cliches and un-truisms that can be gathered from watching movies. The book takes only about five minutes to read and some of the observations are hilarious, some are right on the money, and some just don't make sense outside of movies. Each statement has a picture from a movie beside it that illustrates what is said. For instance, &quot;The village Idiot is a veritable font of wisdom&quot; quote is next to a picture of Forrest Gump. Some of the observations many of my friends did not understand. Unfortunately, if you are like me and get most of them, you've probably seen too many movies.	2001-09-16
1994106:US	52966385	R2MY4ABCPJBVK0	0517209489	134789254	Planet of the Apes (Cinema Classics (Gramercy Books (Firm)).)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Getting back to the original.	To be completely honest, I didn't even know there was an original PLANET OF THE APES book until I bought this book. Everyone knows about the famous movie with Charlton Heston and there is a lot of buzz surrounding the upcoming film by Tim Burton. It was this latest film that caused me to discover the book; I've heard the new movie is supposed to be closer to the book than the original film. When I first heard that I thought to myself, &quot;There's a book? How come I've never heard about a book before?&quot; I still don't know the answer to that question.<br />Anyway, the novel PLANET OF THE APES (or in some translations MONKEY PLANET) is a gem that's a joy to have discovered. An interesting tale of science fiction about a group of three space travelers who fly three hundred light years across the universe to a planet that they find to be similar to Earth. The major difference being that apes control the planet and humans are wild animal savages. One of the travelers, Ulysse Merou (look a classical allusion), is captured by the apes and placed within a research laboratory. There his attempts at communication distinguish him from the other men. He becomes a celebrity and life looks good. But things aren't always as they seem on the Planet of the Apes.<br />Though the story contains some sci-fi elements, the book is actually a social fable. As I was reading, I couldn't help but think of Swift's GULLIVER'S TRAVELS and how similar the two pieces of literature are. In fact, the best way to describe PLANET OF THE APES is that it is an updated version of GULLIVER'S TRAVELS with a twist ending (Gulliver's journey didn't end so bleakly). Want a banana?	2001-05-18
1994797:US	52966385	RH9T68YJBYVSQ	0671501119	104822660	The Rolling Stone Film Reader: The Best Film Writing from Rolling Stone Magazine	Books	4	3	3	N	N	At the movies with Rolling Stone.	This book is filled with essays, articles, interviews, and reviews taken directly from the pages of Rolling Stone. Some of my favorite pieces included the behind-the-scenes/making-of THE LAST PICTURE SHOW article, the interviews with Jim Carrey and Alicia Silverstone, and the article about Quentin Tarantino. It was interesting to read the articles and interviews about different celebrities and see how different the personalities of many people are now from the way they were when the piece was originally written.	2001-05-18
1995581:US	52966385	R22L89TSDWHI75	067084487X	569134622	The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun for anyone with a warped sense of humor.	I admit I have somewhat of a warped sense of humour. I grew up watching the Muppets and old Warner Brothers cartoons and am a fan of the Simpsons. I'm also familiar with many of the old fairy tales in their true form (not the waterized Disney version). Therefore, I almost immediately liked this book.<br />Younger children may become frightened by some of the pictures and/or won't get many of the stories. However, since we live in such a media-filled/entertainment society, anyone over the age of 4 will probably enjoy the book. Nevertheless, be forewarned parents are probably going to get the most out of these wacked-out stupid little tales causing kids to wonder what's so funny and why do Mommy and Daddy act so strange when reading this book.	2001-05-17
1995791:US	52966385	R3UKC5YECLTX0M	0849911419	860231817	The Great Compromise	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Road to Hell is paved with good intentions.	The road to Hell is paved with good intentions or at least with thousands of tiny compromises. Not too long ago in a church not too far away from where I live, a pastor was forced to resign and was eventually arrested for embezeling church funds. I know of people who are Christians, but are constantly swearing, getting into trouble, bickering, brawling, etc. How many times do you do something you know is wrong then look back afterwards and wonder, how could I have fallen so low? These are some of the troubling issues that Greg Laurie examines in THE GREAT COMPROMISE.<br />The thesis is quite simple. People don't fall out of a relationship with God all at once. It happens slowly over time; week by week, day by day, moment by moment. Each day we are faced with hundreds, perhaps even thousands of decisions. In each one of those decisions we can choose to press out the best of that decision and give our utmost for His highest or we can choose less than the best and compromise. Oh, it won't hurt if I travel twenty-five miles over the speed limit, everyone else is going thiry miles over. I really feel terrible today, but I'm going to act like everything is dandy. This one little lie won't hurt, after all I'm not hurting anyone. The scenarios are endless, but the consequences are the same. Slowly but surely we make little compromises that end up leading us to fall away from God. Laurie explores some of those decisions and scenarios and gives Biblically-based advice on what we can do to keep from making the Great Compromise.	2001-05-17
1995833:US	52966385	RCPSJ6X6V7XLS	0849938635	365432395	The Oath	Books	5	5	5	N	N	No warm-fuzzies here.	Most of what I heard from Christian friends about this book were negative comments. We like things that make us feel good and anything that doesn't is to be avoided. That's true for Christians as well as non-Christians. We like our Christianity sugar-coated, water-downed, and full of warm-fuzzies. We like to put Jesus in our pocket and place him on the dash of our cars.  Anytime something forces us to realize that God doesn't fit in the little box we made for Him it fills us with dread.  Such is the case with Frank Peretti's THE OATH.<br />THE OATH is a book about the battle between good and evil, sin and salvation.  Cliff Benson, a wildlife photographer, is grotesquely mauled to death while on a camping trip. His wife temporarily goes insane attacking the grill of a semi truck. Cliff's brother, Steve, is a wildlife scientist and begins investigating his brother's death. What appears to be an attack of a large rogue bear proves to be otherwise and what Steve uncovers will change not only his life, but the lives of all those he meets.<br />THE OATH is not a typical book of Christian fiction. There is some romance, but not the syrupy kind you'll find in Christian &quot;romance&quot; novels. There is talk of God and Jesus, but not enough to be preachy. The style of the book is different too. Peretti is a gifted writer and his books are usually filled with action. THE OATH has a great deal of action, but it is much more dark and sinister, like something out of a Stephen King novel. It is this dark tone that has frightened many would-be fans away. Yet, at the same time, this tone is the novel's most appealing aspect and has drawn many outside of the Christian faith to read the book. It's more than worth your time to read, but just don't expect of get any warm-fuzzies.	2001-05-17
2005913:US	52966385	R3WLUISCM3GQO	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	We've Been Made to Understand	I was unable to figure out what all the fuss concerning Harry Potter was about. As a fan of fantasy and someone who works with children, I made a promise to read the first book in the series and discover myself what the fuss is about. I have finally fulfilled that promise to myself and have been made to understand.<br /><br />HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE is not a great piece of literature, nor will it change your life or make you a wonderful person. However, it is a great story filled with wonderful characters, a fantastical setting, and exciting adventures.<br /><br />The plot is rather simple. Young Harry is an orphan raised by his wicked aunt and uncled and forced to live in a closet under the stairs. However, just before his 11th birthday Harry receives a letter. Harry learns that he is a wizard and in the fall is to begin classes at Hogwarts, the world's greatest and most famous school of magic. In September, Harry makes the journey to the school and a variety of exciting things happen: learning to fly on a broom, delivering an illegal dragon to safety, and protecting the famous Sorcerer's Stone.<br /><br />The world in which Harry enters is one full of fantasy. That's part of the book's appeal. However, the biggest part of the appeal are the characters. Rowling has created a cast of characters that every child can relate with: a lonely boy who's family hates him; a chubby kid who's clumsy and always breaking things; a bookworm; a boy from a poor family. These types of characters are nothing new. However, Rowling writes in such a way that children are able to identify with the characters more quickly than in other stories. The fascinating elements of the story speed the identification and makes it stronger.<br /><br />At times the story doesn't seem to live up to it's potential. However, I believe this is because Rowling has a masterplan worked out and this is only the first of what will eventually be at least seven books. Also, the themes of bravery, family, and friendship make the book that much more rewarding. A delightful rewarding book that children are sure to enjoy as well as many adults.family, and friendship make the book that much more rewarding. A delightful rewarding book that children are sure to enjoy as well as many adults.	2001-05-09
2007413:US	52966385	R1PO5E14PXZVG1	0768420164	217544588	The God Chasers: My Soul Follows Hard After Thee	Books	4	39	41	N	N	Seeking, I AM.	Several friends of mine had read THE GOD CHASERS and received a great deal out of it. However, I also knew several people who read the book and did not enjoy it all. I didn't know exactly what to expect and began reading this book with an open heart and an open mind.  The book contains a powerful message about being broken and putting God first in our lives, so much so that we become a God-chaser instead of just being chased by God. The stress on brokeness is a message that the Church tends either to avoid nowdays or gloss over with a bunch of warm-fuzzy Christianity. As much as God is the loving, humble servant, God is also a fierce and mighty warrior. This is a lesson well worth remembering.<br />Nevertheless, this book is not for everyone. The author makes that clear in his introduction. Not everyone will find the book interesting. Of course, it doesn't help that the author repeats himself in just about every chapter. Still, in this user-friendly world of ours we tend to forget how powerful and awesome God truly is. Anything that reminds us of that power is worth noticing.	2001-05-07
2010985:US	52966385	R255XF0ZRXM19G	0143117130	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel (Penguin Ink) (The Penguin Ink Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Quite What I Thought It Would Be	After finally finishing this book, my response is \\"what's the big deal?\\". Why have so many people come to admire the character of Bridget Jones and why is this book so popular? I honestly don't know. There isn't anything original about the book whatsoever. The paperthin plot is taken directly from Jane Austen; most of Bridget's \\"struggles\\" are nothing new; and the book contains no moral or message of any sort. This isn't a book that can help you change your life. Nevertheless, it does have it's moments (British wit: you either hate it, love it, or don't have a clue), but overall most of the humour gets lost in the blandness of Bridget's \\"struggles\\". Overall, other than a few humorous moments that made me laugh, my reaction to the book was one of pity. I pity the character of Bridget Jones and all the poor people who read this book and live like her; just existing in life but never truly living. It's sad that so many see the character of Bridget as heroic when in reality she's just a coward decorated to be a pretty model of \\"how life is.\\" Oh well. Once again another book with a lot of hype, but no substance.	2001-05-04
2011725:US	52966385	R1STKMSC9MXJL2	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Beowulf Rocks!.	As someone who majored in English and who has studied and enjoyed much of the &quot;good old stuff&quot; (pre-19th century literature), this is one of the best translations of the classic Anglo-Saxon poem BEOWULF I have ever read.  Seamus Heaney is one of the greatest living poets of the English language and his remarkable skills bring this ancient text to life for many who would otherwise cast it off as &quot;something boring we have/had to read for English.&quot; The parrallel paging of the original text next to Heaney's translation is an added bonus that allows the reader to appreciate the development of the English language, display the powerful craft of Heaney, and illustrate the powerful, action-adventure character of Beowulf.<br />BEOWULF is a classic story told in three acts about a great warrior who competes against unbelievable odds to conquer monsters, becoming one of the first superheroes in recorded. It is a story that ages well and with Heaney's translation it is sure to become familiar with an even larger audience. If you've ever read BEOWULF or are going to be reading it in the future, this is the version to have.	2001-05-03
2014617:US	52966385	RNU2SNBYK2VU5	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Be a Man	I was enthralled and challenged by John Eldredge's previous two works. After reading WILD AT HEART, I have been challenged even more. What makes a man? This is a question that all men struggle with at least once in our lives. Some wrestle with the question until they die. At one time, men knew how to be men, but in the modern materialistic society in which we now live, men no longer know what they are. There are many &#34;self-help&#34; books to help you through your struggles and you can buy pills to make you feel manly, but none of these things really help. They all deal with the struggle by avoiding it.<br /><br />John Eldredge examines the struggle without avoiding it. Men were created to fight a war, live an adventure, and win Beauty. Through his exploration of this issue Eldredge has re-claimed masculinity from the chaos of modernity and given men a useful guide to help them find their true selves. Learn what its like to truly be a man.	2001-05-01
2019816:US	52966385	R1600JU8C4M310	0060611758	229959916	The Hungering Dark	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A light in the dark.	Within all of us there is a longing, a hungering that we cannot fill on our own.  Nevertheless, we all try to fill it: whether it is through people, money, things, work, education, fame. We end up living in a world of shadows and if we realize this, we wake up and find ourselves in the dark. What causes this hunger that leads us into the dark? The answer is simple enough: God. Yet, simplicity is complex.  In this book full full of joy and hope, Beuchner examines this issue helping to enlighten the struggle we all face with the hungering dark.	2001-04-26
2019846:US	52966385	R3M0PRDX4FICHS	0785279709	858860578	A Moment of Silence: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	If Things Are Too Silent You Fall Asleep	When I first glanced at this book, I thought it would be an entertaining and thought-provoking read. I was wrong. The book masks itself as a novel dealing with the issue of prayer in public places. However, it's really nothing more than a love story. The book is rather easy to read, but is also extremely boring. However, it doesn't start out that way. The first few chapters are quite exciting, beginning when teacher Robert Farr inadvertently says the word \\"Amen\\" at the end of a moment of silence. What starts out as a fight against a hard-hearted principal ends up leading to a battle against the United States government. But, that's just the fringe to a budding romance between Farr and a younger teacher at his school. So much promise, but no deliverance.	2001-04-26
2020094:US	52966385	R3FTI25PPKHJWW	0312130899	587617573	I'Ve Forgotten Everything I Learned in School: A Refresher Course to Help You Reclaim Your Education	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Full of information.	This book is full of useful tricks to help one retain memory and become a better thinker. However, unlike many other books of its type, it is highly entertaining and full of amusement.  There are tidbits of information that trivia buffs will find useful, but for the most part the book is a refresher course for everthing they taught you (or at least tried to teach you) in school. If you're even vaguely interested in improving your mind and want to learn all the stuff you found so boring in school, this book is a wonderful aid.	2001-04-26
2020114:US	52966385	R14PGB9WHUXDJM	1567313051	512435946	Why You Say It: The Fascinating Stories Behind Over 600 Everyday Words and Phrases	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Why say why?	This book is full of explanations and origins to over 600 words and phrases used in modern English. Unlike many books that examine the origins of words, this book is easy to read and is highly entertaining. Anyone who enjoys trivia will love this and even for those who don't, it's an enjoyable read nonetheless.	2001-04-26
2020592:US	52966385	RWVYTC0RL3XGP	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;Another good thing.&quot;	Until I started reading King myself, I had always thought of him as a horror writer. The first book I read by King was IT. After reading that, I realized that he wasn't just a horror writer, but was a good writer who happened to write supernatural tales. Then I read DIFFERENT SEASONS and I realized that King wasn't just a good writer, but is one of America's greatest living authors. King doesn't write to impress the acadmia of America. Instead he writes to tell a story. However, like all great writers, he manages to tell his story, yet subtlely examines social issues all while exploring the different sides of human nature and without distracting from the story.<br />I consider DIFFERENT SEASONS to be some of King's best work. Four novellas are contained within this book, each one examining a different season of the year and a different view of human nature: from the uplifting RITA HAYWORTH AND THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION to the terrifying APT PUPIL to the loss of innocence in THE BODY to the winter's tale of THE BREATHING METHOD. Each story offers a unique perspective at the nature of humanity. My favorite story in the collection is Shawshank and my least favorite is Apt Pupil. Many people do not like The Breathing Method, but that has to do more with the style than the story (out of the four tales it is the one that would be most difficult to turn into a film) and it is the only one with any supernatural undertones. Like all of King's writings, this was a fast read and quite entertaing. However, it is also the most enjoyable King work and one of his most thought-provoking. It's not just a &quot;good thing&quot;, it's one of the best of things.	2001-04-26
2020877:US	52966385	RABLS7P6U6VA3	0060191325	587492563	Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Well, Duh.	It took me almost 6 weeks to get through this book because the writing is so freaking boring. Yes, unlike many people who talk about this book all the time, I have read the book from cover to cover, front to back, the whole enchilada and to be perfectly honest I am not any different than I was before. This book did not change my life and I can't understand why it was a best seller for so long.<br /><br />The premise of the book is simple: men and women are different, so different they might as well be from different planets. The author only got the equation half right. Men and women are different, but we aren't from different planets. Yes, we are different physically and have different thought patterns and emotional structures, but we are all human. This is one area where this book fails (as so many other relationship books do as well) pointing out the differences in the sexes, but failing to illustrate the similarites. Of course, it fails in a lot of other areas, too.<br /><br />Most of the helpful tips are things that should be obvious to anyone who has any maturity at all (talking about conflicts, giving people their space, etc.). The writing is bland and more repetitive than the bass beat in techno music.<br /><br />Nevertheless, I can understand how some people could be helped by reading this book. For someone who is emotionally immature or who has never learned basic relationship skills, this book could be useful. However, other than that, don't waste your time buying it and if you want to read it, go to the library.	2001-04-25
2021139:US	52966385	R6SQ1EGRRWEU0	0876802323	63870479	The Jesus Freaks	Books	3	9	12	N	N	It's not what you think.	Don't let the title fool you, this book has nothing to do (unless it served as inspiration) with the hit song by DC Talk. In fact, it doesn't have much to do with Jesus, freaks, or Jesus Freaks. The book was written in the 1960's and has aged rather poorly (hyppies were the newest form of youth rebellion). The book stresses the themes of compassion and tolerance, lessons which never can be emphasized enough. However, it does so with universal/Unitarian values, which are not what Christianity is about. Jesus was compassionate and was full of tolerance, but Jesus was not a universalist; all ways do not lead to Heaven as testified by Jesus himself, &quot;I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no one can come to the father except through me.&quot;<br />The book is rather short, but is not an easy read. In fact, in most places it is rather boring. However, there are a few good stories and some very interesting poetry. Also, although the book is dated, its age serves a useful purpose in exploring how the Church dealt with all the changes that occured in the United States during the 1960's and early 1970's.  Overall, a boring book with little purpose outside of historical research.	2001-04-25
2023429:US	52966385	RJV4KZD3NEKN2	080213002X	393870158	The Cherry Orchard	Books	3	11	14	N	N	You can never go home again.	As much as I enjoy Chekhov, I'm not a big fan of THE CHERRY ORCHARD; it never made much sense to me. However, this adaptation by David Mamet makes the play easier to follow and understand.  The play itself is often labeled as a tragedy, but really isn't. As Mamet points out in the introduction to this adaptation, the closest form of drama THE CHERRY ORCHARD's structure resembles is the farce. In fact, if all the characters weren't so depressing, the play would be hilarious. Perhaps that is what Chekhov originally intended, that as we would see the outrageous, pitiful existence of the characters in this play we would laugh at their mopping and folly and strive to make our lives more meaningful. This isn't the best work to introduce one to the genius of Chekhov, but it is a classic and if one can get past all the whining (or to use a more pc term &quot;reminiscing&quot;) it's worth the read.	2001-04-23
2023994:US	52966385	R2SFUBUJEZCW9Y	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Here he comes to save the day!	Upon reading the opening section of this book (all the stuff before the first chapter), I was impressed by Eggers' skill as a writer. I understood why many were calling him a genius (including himself). The first half of the book was just as interesting, but much more emotional and heartfelt. However, after the Real World interview near the middle of the book, the tone of the book changed. Not to say it wasn't well written. However, reading about a person's pain and rage caused by the near simultaneous deaths of his parents begins to wear thin after awhile (especially after several years pass by in the story); you feel like you want to grab the author by the shoulders, shake them real hard, and tell them life goes on and all that bottled anger isn't going to do anyone any good. Also, with a person with Eggers' since of humor and world view, it becomes extremely difficult to tell when the person is joking and when they are actually serious and in pain (while reading the book I was constantly being reminded of Andy Kaufman).  Nevertheless, Eggers' story is heartbreaking and the &quot;new&quot; section added with the paperback makes things much clearer. The book is heartfelt and heartbreaking, and through reading it one can come to a deeper understanding of just how close comedy &amp; tragedy, tears &amp; laughter, and life &amp; death really are.	2001-04-23
2039661:US	52966385	R39RD9A5ULK1N6	0830723358	772101219	Pure Desire: Helping People Break Free from Sexual Struggles	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Getting back to the basics.	Desire is not a bad thing, but like everything in the fallen world in which we live, it has been tainted by sin and perverted by Satan. The perversion that Satan offers is just a tainted shadow of reality, not even resembling the Real Thing. Nevertheless, those illusions and shadows are comforting because they help ease the pain of living in such a fallen world.  Thus an addiction begins that eventually may seem hopeless to break. However, there is hope and in PURE DESIRE Pastor Roberts explains why.<br />This book deals specifically with sexual addiction. However, the information found here is just as helpful in dealing with an addiction of any sort: whether it be alcohol, drugs, food, or anything else.  The book is written towards men, but can be just as helpful for women trapped in bondage. We've liven in a chained world long enough. It's time to break free and get back to the basics.	2001-04-09
2043122:US	52966385	RQTY7SN97D42B	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fiction becoming reality.	It's hard to believe this little book by the famed Ray Bradbury has been around for about fifty years. I remember kids talking about this book just a few years ago when I was in high school and remember thinking it was some great new work of sci-fi. With all the changes in our society and culture the past few years (from the Internet to digital television), FAHRENHEIT 451 is more significant today than it was forty years ago.<br />The plot of the story is simple. Guy Montag is a fireman. However, in the future, instead of putting out fires, fireman start them. Guy burns books and he enjoys doing it. Books are illegal to own and most people spend their free time (and they have lots of it) driving their cars (at speeds of over 120 mph) or listening to the wall-sized televisions that have become their family. One day Guy meets a strange girl who sets a fancy to his heart. His meeting with her allows him to open up and begin to see the truth.<br />The story is simple, but it is what the story says about our society that is so significant. We are told by the story's antagonist that things changed because the country became divided by factions of every sort and people no longer cared about the knowledge books contained. Reading forces people to think and thinking is bad because it forces you to consider others and when you only care about yourself, how can you think about someone else? In our modern American society where many people label themselves with as many hypens as possible, where lives are literally being played out on television, and where violence is becoming more and more the norm; the issues raised in FAHRENHEIT 451 need to be discussed more than ever.	2001-04-06
2053090:US	52966385	R2SPD88J2CVFQ7	0671747274	197641005	Preston Sturges by Preston Sturges: His Life in His Words	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Lifestyle of the Rich and Famous.	Preston Sturges was one of the greatest comedy directors of all time, but most people have no idea who he was. This book is basically Sturges' autobiography.  Ironically, he died before he ever had a chance to finish and publish his life story. However, using what he had written, various letters, and notes, his daughter Sandy collected his writings and edited them into this delightful book. I was fascinated and extremely amused reading about the exploits of the gifted (and wealthy) young Preston. His childhood was anything but usual, what with globetrotting and famous dinner guests and all; and the story of how he became a movie director is most interesting and entertaining. Full of wit and charm, this book is sure to entertain; not unlike a Preston Sturges' film.	2001-03-28
2055518:US	52966385	R3BILY6494432L	0156528207	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Tale for All Ages.	THE LITTLE PRINCE is a wonderful little book that is often classified as &quot;children's literature&quot;. Do not let this label fool you. In our modern society we have this strange urge to label everything, to put things in their proper place. There is nothing wrong with this, but often we miss out on some amazing things because they are stamped with a label we don't like: &quot;That's a foreign movie, isn't it?; I wouldn't like that painting because I've never heard of the artist; I don't like that type of music; Isn't that a kid's book?&quot;.<br />THE LITTLE PRINCE is a book that many may overlook because it is considered children's literature. Though it is true that many children love reading or listening to this book, most children will not be able to fully grasp all the elements of the tale. That can only come with the experience of life that most children are fortunate enough not to know.<br />At face value the book is simply the story of a pilot who has crashed in the desert and the little blond headed boy he meets there. The pilot learns that the boy is actually a prince from a tiny planet many miles away. However, the story is much more than this. Intertwined with the tale are both existential and Platonic dialogues. A Christian allegory is found as well, not to mention the social commentary on the innocence of childhood. There are many other levels that the book can be read at and there are many other issues the story discusses, but all with the eloquence and simplicity of a childlike wonder. This is a book that can be read again and again throughout life; it is a tale for all ages.	2001-03-26
2059633:US	52966385	R3LJKD4FB7C755	1929125178	534488840	When Dreams Come True: A Love Story Only God Could Write	Books	4	61	63	N	N	Waiting with the Lord.	I must confess, I have read a lot of books on dating and relationships.  Generally, these books are a waste of time. Many of them attempt to be a &quot;how to guide&quot; on dating, when in reality there can be no such thing. A few books on relationships give some good ideas about dating. (or courtship, let's not get picky about terminology here) and what to do on a date, but that's about it.<br />WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE is not like that. This book tells the story of how Eric and Leslie Ludy first met, how they became friends, and how they eventually fell in love with each other. It's that simple. This isn't a self help or how to book and I am grateful for that. However, in telling their story, the Ludys do give us a glimpse into what happens when we place our love lives in the hands of God.<br />I understand that the way Eric and Leslie met and grew in fondess for each other will not work for everyone; that's why most current books on &quot;relationships&quot; are a waste of time because there is no one way to meet someone and begin a relationship. However, their lives are an encouragement for others who have already placed their lives in God's hands and are waiting for that special someone to come along. Also, unlike many other books on relationships, this couple does not preach at people; they don't say that because this is how their relationship developed, this is the way everyone has to do it. Instead they just tell their story.<br />It was also nice to see the story told from both sides (male &amp; female), rather than the usual slanted male or female author's point of view. When you wait with God, dreams really do come true.	2001-03-22
2062919:US	52966385	R2MFXRQXUW5PXX	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	&quot;The Pulp Strikes Back&quot;	LEFT BEHIND was a good book. It contains a lot of action and raises many questions, causing one to think about one's beliefs and perhaps discover the truth. I delayed reading LEFT BEHIND for several years because I didn't want to be caught up in the mass frenzy that followed its publication. However, my wait was worthwhile.<br />Not too long after reading LEFT BEHIND, I decided to read the next book in the series, TRIBULATION FORCE.  I was severely disappointed by it. There isn't much action, there's way too much unnecessary filler, and there is a huge 18 month period of time that is virtually unaccounted for.<br />I wasn't sure what to expect with NICOLAE. I had heard that it was one of the better books (so far) in the series, but I had also heard people say that TRIBULATION FORCE was a great follow up to the awesome Christian pulp fiction of LEFT BEHIND. After reading NICOLAE, I'm please to say that the authors got back on track after their little detour into romantic fantasy. The pulp has striked back.<br />NICOLAE is full of action: from the danger filled rescue through bombed-out Chicago, to the action filled chase in Egypt that centers the book, to the beginning of the Wrath of the Lamb at the end of the novel.  There aren't any dull spots (unlike TRIBULATION FORCE) and the authors have vividly brought this part of John's Revelation to life.<br />If you haven't read any of the LEFT BEHIND books, NICOLAE would be a good one to start with. It updates the story for new readers, without boring those who have already read the first two books.<br />There has been and will continue to be disagreement concerning the author's interpretaion of Revelation. Nevertheless, whether you agree in full, in part, or disagree with their position, you should not let that prevent you from enjoying some exciting Christian pulp fiction.	2001-03-20
2068281:US	52966385	R2OZIU1EQZT1QO	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the Best.	As a fan of Calvin and Hobbes and an admirer of Bill Watterson, it is difficult to decide which are the best of his books. All of Calvin and Hobbes comics are awesome. However, due to the commentaries by Watterson that are included in this anniversary edition, this is one of the best Calvin and Hobbes collections out there. Besides the aforementioned comments by Watterson, this collection also includes many of the greatest Calvin and Hobbes' stories. If you are a Calvin and Hobbes fan, this is something worth owning. If by chance you have never read a Calvin and Hobbes comic (Egads!), then this would be a good choice to introduce you to the dynamic duo.	2001-03-15
2071090:US	52966385	RDA22LLJHJUYB	0785268820	600723304	The Journey of Desire: Searching for the Life We Only Dreamed of	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Delight yourself in the Lord.	&quot;Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord; trust in Him and He will do this&quot; (Psalm 37:4-5). I had heard this verse several times in my life, but never really understood it. The verse sounded really good, but I didn't actually believe it. I thought I was following God, but I sure wasn't getting any of the desires of my heart. Then, through a series of events, I discovered this verse to actually be true. I had never really delighted myself in the Lord, I had fooled myself into believing I was when in reality I was only delighting others and not necessarily God.<br />The last several years have been difficult and it has seemed that my desires have been put on hold. I have truly been following and delighting in the Lord, but very few of my desires have been given to me.<br />Then I read this book. I'm very glad I did. Several years ago (right around the time I began to understand Psalm 37:4), I read Eldredge and Curtis' THE SACRED ROMANCE. That book really inspired me and contained many ideas I had been trying to grapple in my mind.  THE JOURNEY OF DESIRE is a wonderful follow up to THE SACRED ROMANCE. Though not explicitly doing so, it continues where THE SACRED ROMANCE left off.<br />We live in a fallen world that is continuing to decay. All things were once good and beautiful, but now everything (including desire) carries the tint of sin. Life is difficult, no journey is easy. But we do have a choice: we can either choose to just exist or choose to live or in the words of a famous film we can either &quot;get busy living or get busy dying.&quot; Eldredge thoroughly examines that choice in this book. His words are refreshing for sojourners tired from the journey and his perspective and ideas are enlightening. A worthy work.	2001-03-13
2072447:US	52966385	R2XGL299CTL7TY	0449204553	363273152	Walk Across America	Books	5	6	8	N	N	No Man is an Island.	My Dad &amp; Mom both read this book and loved it. That's somewhat unusual because my parents' reading tastes are usually different. My Dad enjoyed it so much that anytime he was given a chance, he would mention this book. Nearly a decade later, I finally got around to reading it. I wish I would have read it much sooner.<br />The book was first published about twenty-five years ago, but it's content will probably never be dated. It is true that many things have changed in America since Jenkins first set out to walk across America: Vietnam is just another chapter in the history books instead of a recent memory, the cold war has ended, and there aren't as many hippies roaming the country as there used to be. Nevertheless, the more things change the more things stay the same.<br />Most people are truly remarkable. We tend to forget that in our current times where violence and abuse seem the norm. We live in a society where children kill each other because some other kid called them a name. People are murdered, beat, raped, and abused every day. In the violent times in which we live, Peter Jenkins' story is more meaningful than ever. We are a culture that seems to be plagued by violence. However, this doesn't have to be the case and for the most part it isn't. There really are people out there like Homer the Mountaineer and the commune of The Farm; people who don't live according to the system. However, most people do play by the system and are like the people Jenkins met and lived with in Tennessee and Alabama: people who will stop to see if you need a lift or a place to stay, buy you a meal, or give you a glass of water. You don't hear about these people much. They are the silent majority. You don't hear much about them because a murder sells more papers and makes for better television that an old man picking up a stranger and buying his meal for him. If you don't believe me, maybe you should try taking your own walk across America.	2001-03-12
2074509:US	52966385	RA6U4DMTTGI0M	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tear and laughter flowing from the same fountain.	When I first heard about this book, I didn't understand what all the fuss was about. Then I bought the book and read it and understood. In life there isn't much difference between tragedy and comedy. The two outlooks come from the same source, the difference is that one offers some hope and the other doesn't believe there is any hope left to offer. Tears and laughter flowing from the same fountain.<br />ANGELA'S ASHES is like that. What the McCourt family suffered through was severely depressing (though most of the world was suffering just as much too) and reading about their trials makes one realize how lucky we are. One feels a deep sympathy for Frank and his family (except perhaps for his father). Yet, the story is told in such a way that it makes one laugh rather than cry. McCourt is honest and forthright and though I was disappointed (rather than amused) at many of his exploits, his story gripped me nonetheless. This book more than deserved the Pulitzer it won, but should you read it bring a hanky just in case laughing is too difficult.	2001-03-09
2076774:US	52966385	RO2T89N5UTVOU	0736901604	169250293	Prayer and the Art of Volkswagen Maintenance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Honest Work from an Honest Journey	I first bought this book because it had an interesting title. After purchasing it, I told my friends about it. Many of them had already read it and told me it was a really good book. I must disagree with them. This is not a good book. This is a great book.<br /><br />Many books recently published dealing with Christianity aren't worth reading, let alone buying. Many of these books claim to have the answer to all life's problems in either three or ten spiritual steps: do this & this & that & God will take care of all your problems. These books aren't evil, but for all their good intentions they turn God into a dashboard Jesus that fits equally well on the dash of your car or in your pocket.<br /><br />Miller is unlike that. In his quest to seek a deeper relationship with God, Miller raises questions that many of us face sometime in our lives; not all of us need to take a physical journey to set sail on a spiritual one. Miller is open and honest. After so much fuzzy-Christianity in the air of our modern culture, his honesty is like a cool breeze after a scorching summer's day.<br /><br />Not only is this book enlightening, but it is also entertaining. I found the physical adventures in the Volkswagen to be quite amusing. My first car was a little red 87 Toyota Corolla and I traveled throughout the country in it. Reading about the troubles the van gave its two adventurers brought back many fond (and not so fond) memories with my little red car. But even if you've never had experiences like that, they still make for fun and entertaining reading.	2001-03-08
2076810:US	52966385	R2ZGVH9M9W4HN	0312976356	103812489	So You'd Like to Win a Million: Facts, Trivia and Inside Hints on Game Show Success	Books	3	3	3	N	N	You've Got to be Quick to Cash In	I am a trivia buff and enjoy learning new things and memorizing useless facts. I have thoroughly read many trivia books in my neverending quest for knowledge.  This is a decent trivia book.  Unlike many of the recent books of facts trying to cash in on &quot;Who Wants to be a Millionaire&quot;, this book doesn't have many typos and all of the answers are correct.  My family and friends have enjoyed using this book as part of trivia contests we sometimes play. Most of the questions have little to do with current pop culture and therefore the book can be used many years from now by just about anyone. However, because of the book's introductory chapters it has aged considerably since its first appearance.  The section dealing with &quot;Millionaire&quot; is still rather valid because that show is still on the air.  However, the section dealing with &quot;Greed&quot; is what dates the book.  &quot;Greed&quot; went off the air about a month after this book first appeared.  Of course there is also the section listing several upcoming game shows in which a million dollars or more can be made: &quot;Survivor&quot; is the last to be mentioned and the authors seem to have believed the show wouldn't amount to much.  Great entertainment with some interesting historical material.	2001-03-08
2078475:US	52966385	R21M6JLN4WMRWH	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Vampires in the USA.	'SALEM'S LOT is another fine work by Stephen King. What would happen if the story of Dracula took place in small town America?  That's the basic premise of this novel. An ancient vacant house in a small Maine village is occupied and a famous author moves to Jerusalem's Lot all on the same day. People begin to disappear and hardly anyone suspects a thing. Who knows what could be hiding in the cellar or under the house in 'Salem's Lot?<br />As someone who has just recently become a King fan, I was once again impressed by King's masterful storytelling. Nevertheless, I was able to distinguish that this is a work from earlier in King's career: there were a few ends left open and elements of the story weren't as tight as they are in some of King's later works. However, this was still a great book. You probably won't be able to put it down and you may not fall asleep at night.	2001-03-06
2083559:US	52966385	RG2YXI60I06AS	0684870061	399722680	The Green Mile: The Screenplay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darabont Triumphs Again.	I am amazed at the genius of Frank Darabont. SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is the type of film that many directors spend their entire lives trying to make. That film alone is worthy of placing Darabont in the top echelon of modern directors. However, with THE GREEN MILE, Darabont has triumphed again. This screenplay is not as in depth as the SHAWSHANK shooting script. Nevertheless, it is still quite informative and is a useful resource for aspiring filmmakers. Transcribing an already successful published work into a successful movie is extremely difficult and rarely happens. However, Darabont has done it twice. A person can learn a great deal about writing just by reading this book. There's no better way to learn than to learn from a master.	2001-03-02
2084699:US	52966385	RAG0SWXF62T2Z	1575001918	946700393	Survivor II: The Field Guide	Books	3	16	17	N	Y	&quot;Not much more than a pamphlet.&quot;	Is it just me or is Mark Burnett getting further and further detached from reality (delusional as Rich Hatch would say)?  Has he become so attached to his dramality projects that he no longer relates to the common masses who watch his shows?  Does he not realize how obvious it is that he either wrote less of this book than his first one or that he wrote most of it and that's why it's just an extended brochure?<br />SURVIVOR: THE ULTIMATE GAME was an interesting book.  It contained a lot of behind the scenes information and though you can't believe everything you read, it was intriguing.  Even if you weren't a fan of the show you can pick up that book and have an enjoyable read.  Not so with SURVIVOR II: THE FIELD GUIDE. If you have never seen an episode of either Survivor, you'll probably not enjoy this book.  A lot of the stuff found in here can be found in the encyclopedia.<br />The chapter dealing with the end of the first show was a nice way to begin the book.  The chapters dealing with the history of Australia, famous survivors, and the dangers of the outback were informative.  Unfortunately, the character backgrounds and etcetra of the new contestants is lacking.  There really isn't much here.  There are a few tidbits scattered throughout, but for the most part, the contestant info (which should be the most interesting part of this book) is lacking.  All in all, the book lives up to what the first few episodes of SURVIVOR II turned out to be:  lots of movement, but not enough character.	2001-03-01
2085060:US	52966385	R3ALQMADDHS6I0	0806520787	497980731	The Worst Movies of All Time: Or, What Were They Thinking?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful and Fun Reading.	As a movie buff, I read just about everything I can get my hands on containing to movies. When I first saw this book, I thought to myself, &quot;All right! A book devoted to bad movies!&quot;.  I found this book to be quite entertaining. The introduction explaining what makes a movie bad should be a must read for anyone who thinks that only Ed Wood and Roger Corman can make a bad movie.  The sections following each movie listed proved to be both entertaining and informative; giving a description of the film, how the movie was made, and what went wrong. I learned a few tidbits of information and Hollywood history that I had never heard before.  Of course, Michael Sauter is biased in his views especially when it comes to the great Cecil B. DeMille and Bruce Willis, but those biases don't cause a distraction. Overall a delightful, fun, and entertaining book.	2001-03-01
2085630:US	52966385	RNC7RWL9DTA3H	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	The Plot Holes Thicken.	I thoroughly enjoyed LEFT BEHIND and looked forward to reading TRIBULATION FORCE, the second book in the series. I'm sorry to say, I was disappointed.  LEFT BEHIND engaged me.  I realize that it is basically Christian pulp fiction, but it was a good story (isn't most pulp fiction?). I wish I could say the same of TRIBULATION FORCE.<br />The book starts off pretty much where LEFT BEHIND ended. Buck is working and living in Chicago after being demoted.  Rayford is still flying planes, Bruce is still pastoring, and Chloe is settling in back home. There are a few minor twists and turns, but nothing really major. There just isn't any suspense like there was in LEFT BEHIND. I won't give away any of the interesting plot lines here, because there aren't many.  With that said there are two other reasons why TRIBULATION FORCE failed where LEFT BEHIND succeeded.<br />The first is all the romance. Chloe likes Buck, Buck likes Chloe, Chloe sees a woman going into Buck's apartment, Chloe hates Buck, a woman named Amanda likes Rayford, Rayford doesn't like anyone for awhile. Kiss, kiss, hug, hug. Yuck!!! Intelligent readers will understand why all the romantic stuff is there and in order not to offend anyone, I won't reveal why. Let's just say that LaHaye &amp; Jenkins aren't just decent storytellers, they are also brilliant marketers and salesmen as well. They really know how to increase an audience size. Nevertheless, though all that romantic goop increases sales, it also takes a lot away from the story: you can't have many murder attempts when people are trying to get to know each other better.<br />The other reason this book fails to achieve what LEFT BEHIND did is the huge 18 month plot hole.  The entire set of books takes place roughly over a period of 7 years. Ask any wise person and they will tell you that every moment in life is precious. Well, apparently there were 18 months of the character's lives that just weren't important enough to be written about.  We get a sort or flashback here and there, updating what went on during those 18 months, but that's it. I understand sometimes that writers get in a rut when writing epic tales of grandeur and fastforwarding ahead in time is a good way to keep the story going. However, these books aren't an epic series. There aren't 100 different major characters. There's approximately ten and that's it.  Also, usually when authors fastfoward and leave out huge blocks of time, it fits the story.  Not here.  I think it's more of a copout than anything else because the authors were too anxious to get into the plagues of Revelation than take time to develop the characters and flesh out the story more.  Speaking of copouts, I'll leave with one.r flashback here and there, updating what went on during those 18 months, but that's it. I understand sometimes that writers get in a rut when writing epic tales of grandeur and fastforwarding ahead in time is a good way to keep the story going. However, these books aren't an epic series. There aren't 100 different major characters. There's approximately ten and that's it.  Also, usually when authors fastfoward and leave out huge blocks of time, it fits the story.  Not here.  I think it's more of a copout than anything else because the authors were too anxious to get into the plagues of Revelation than take time to develop the characters and flesh out the story more.  Speaking of copouts, I'll leave with one.	2001-02-28
2085666:US	52966385	R17WX4V82MX2AN	0446674273	436403648	L.A. Confidential: The Screenplay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"No hush, hush here."	L.A. CONFIDENTIAL is one of the most riveting movies I have seen in years and was more than deserving of its Best Picture nomination (another one that bit the dust because of a sinking ship). The movie is really fast-paced and it is easy to miss things. Even after repeated viewings there are lines that you don't quite understand and clues here and there you don't pick up. After reading the screenplay, everything comes together and one can find the missing pieces in this murder mystery modern film noir. An excellent screenplay to compliment a superb movie.	2001-02-28
2086320:US	52966385	R2QCJMNKWSWENR	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Christian Pulp Fiction.	I didn't read this book until several years after it first came out.  Many of my friends read it not long after its first appearance and tried to get me to read it, too. However, I resisted saying that I was probably going to wait until all 7 of the books in the series were published (now there are going to be at least 12).  Then I found out there was going to be a movie based on the book and I gave in and read it.<br />I wasn't disappointed.  This is an engaging story and I read the entire book in a day. I found the most of the characters interesting and was impressed at how the writers weaved an intriguing tale around the Rapture.<br />However, do not be mistaken.  This is not great literature. In fact this really isn't literature at all (if what you mean by literature is the sense of the word that most people use it as). This is only a story.  It isn't much more than a comic book tale disquised in religious clothing. I realize that the authors aren't interested in just telling a story, but are trying to evangelize as well.  It is because of this that there are so many conflicting views concerning the novel. People either seem to hate it or love it, with very few falling in between.  Please do not take things the wrong way.  Yes, there is a religious message here and the authors of the book are concerned about saving souls. However, if that troubles you (and perhaps it should), don't let it take away from enjoying a good story.  By the same token, this is not great literature. It is a story told within a Christian context.<br />I hate to admit it, but I must agree with one reviewer who believes more people will be offended rather than converted. However, that is no fault of the authors. If people are too close-minded about religious beliefs to even consider them, then too bad for them. The authors have done nothing more than tell a good story (well, they are guilty of cashing in, too) and should a few souls be saved along the way that's even better. Nevertheless, if you want to read some &quot;Christian&quot; fiction that is great literature, intelligent, and full of religion but not too preachy, try something by C.S. Lewis, George MacDonald, or Walt Wangerin.  They leave out the pulp in their fiction.if you want to read some &quot;Christian&quot; fiction that is great literature, intelligent, and full of religion but not too preachy, try something by C.S. Lewis, George MacDonald, or Walt Wangerin.  They leave out the pulp in their fiction.	2001-02-28
2087017:US	52966385	RNHV1Y25WYB57	0786882506	829125533	Sling Blade	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Nice Home Fried Tater	There are shooting scripts and there are screenplays. If you want to know more about a movie, if there's a shooting script, that's probably your best bet. If you just want the dialogue to a film, then you probably want to read the screenplay. Miramax doesn't publish shooting scripts as far as I know, so you're stuck with what they do publish. Often times, a screenplay doesn't live up to the film its words are taken from. Fortunately, that is not the case here. The SLING BLADE SCREENPLAY is an excellent screenplay with all the dialogue from the movie and just a tad bit more. If you've never seen the movie, this is a time when reading the screenplay before hand might be worth your while. There is a lot of great dialogue here and reading it on the page takes nothing away from the action you will see on the screen.	2001-02-27
2087103:US	52966385	R3I8AKATWLYDN8	0786883448	982634222	Good Will Hunting: A Screenplay	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Original Writing.	It is not difficult to understand why this screenplay won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. There are only so many stories to be told; the difference is how those stories are told. In a land where movies about old television shows are considered original, Hollywood is desperate for anything that looks even remotely new.  The tale that Damon &amp; Affleck (with some help from Goldman) tell is not a new one. However, it is the way they tell it that makes this story so fascinating.  The characters are fleshed out, not cardboard cut-outs. The words you read actually make you care about the characters, thinking of them as real people.<br />Ah, the words. That's what makes this script so original. If Will, Chuckie, Sean and the rest of the clan were not so eloquent, this would just be another run of the mill buddy/romance/coming-of-age flick that just happens to star Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, and Robin Williams.  Most people remember at least one of the wonderfully written monologues from this film, such as Will's interview with NSA or Chuckie's speech to Will about using his gift. However, the normal every day-to-day speech between the characters is written just as poetically.<br />Words are powerful, something we seem to forget in our modern American society. If nothing else, this screenplay is worth looking at just to refresh one's memory of how moving words can be.<br />A great screenplay to companion a great movie.	2001-02-27
2089232:US	52966385	R4LETH00OP3V6	0525937706	459570273	What I Really Want to Do Is Direct: Seven Film School Graduates Go to Hollywood	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting reading, but not intriguing.	I found this book quite interesting. Upon first reading the introduction about the seven individuals chronicled in the book, I thought I was going to be bored to tears. At that point, only three of the seven even seemed remotely interesting. However, as I progressed through the pages and learned more about each person, I grew to enjoy them. The first third of the book took the longest to read. The middle third is the most interesting. At points, I grew tired of the useless ramblings of many of the graduates (bring a lot of cheese because there is a lot of whine here).  However, there are shards of diamonds here and there. If you are interested in movies, especially the real struggles those in the business face each day, this is a must read. Be forewarned, however, this is not a how to guide and it will take a while to uncover the good stuff, but the hunt is worth it.	2001-02-26
2092035:US	52966385	R1XQFK4ZOY07CR	078688469X	589971967	Life is Beautiful/La Vita E Bella: A Screenplay	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"This is not the movie, only the screenplay.",	One has to admit, Miramax makes a lot of darn good movies, from SLING BLADE to GOOD WILL HUNTING. LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL is another great movie. In fact, LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL is one of the best movies of 1998. However, this is not the movie. This is only the screenplay. Sure you have all the lines that are in the film and a few pictures, but that's it. Frankly, if you haven't seen the film, I wouldn't recommend you reading or buying this: the words on a printed page are nothing like the movie. However, if you've seen the film you're probably a fan and it might be worth your while.	2001-02-23
2092775:US	52966385	R1IETMO4DYLJO1	1557042462	268700275	Shawshank Redemption: The Shooting Script	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;A Good Thing&quot;	This is a great read. This book doesn't just contain the screenplay to one of the best movies of the 1990s. It also has a delightful introduction by Stephen King which explains his relationship with Frank Darabont and describes his &quot;dollar baby&quot; policy concerning his short stories and novellas. There is also a sort of short foreward by Darabont briefly describing how the movie came into being.  This book contains the complete shooting script (deleted lines and all) and a bunch of notes by Darabont illuminating why certain scenes were cut, lines where changed, etc. Anyone interesting in filmmaking would really benifit from reading this.  For those who aren't even in the least bit interested in how a movie is made, this is still a delightful read.  It is a good thing, perhaps one of the best of things.	2001-02-23
2094099:US	52966385	R123HNQTLJPAPG	1575440997	540428340	The Instant Genius: An Indispensable Handbook for Know-It-Alls	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Entertainment.	Great book. Full of information and easy to read. Learn plenty of things you never knew before and a few things that you wish you didn't. This book is not limited to one topic and contains all sorts of fun facts. Learn some of the stuff in this book and tell it to your family and friends. They'll either think you're a genius or a psycho. Enjoy!	2001-02-22
2095624:US	52966385	RG6O69B8NMYV4	0060192003	488777645	Chasing Down the Dawn	Books	3	1	1	N	N	&quot;Lions and tigers and bears oh my!&quot;	This book was an easy read. It's more of a memoir than anything else. Fans of Jewel will probably adore it. I picked it up because Jewel reminds me of a friend I once had. Reading about the various people the author has met and some of her experiences over the years, I was reminded of a lot of other people I have met and places I have been. There isn't anything spectacular here, but it is an interesting book.	2001-02-20
2105414:US	52966385	R2VVUH55LROPI9	1885840039	781514387	Stingray : The Lethal Tactics of the Sole Survivor	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Machiabelly and Friends	I am a fan of CBS's SURVIVOR and found this book quite interesting. About three fourths of the book chronicles the life of Richard Hatch, explaining how his past influenced the way he acted (or was he acting?) on the show and helped him become the first Ultimate Survivor. The other fourth of the book is a brief expose of the &#34;dramatized reality&#34; that SURVIVOR is.<br /><br />Richard Hatch maybe an interesting character to study, but he fails to be as interesting as the possible behind the scenes manipulation of SURVIVOR by the show's producer, Mark Burnett. I remember CBS's request for applications early last year and the early advertisement that preceded the show's first broadcast. Originally the show was hyped as a type of outdoor game show. The descriptions varied, but make no mistake, the show was originally advertised and described as a game show. I don't know exactly when it happened, but eventually the &#34;game show&#34; advertising slowly faded away. Terms such as &#34;unscripted drama&#34; and &#34;dramatized reality&#34; began to be used to describe both SURVIVOR and now SURVIVOR II.<br /><br />Peter Lance was the first to uncover this (outside of or perhaps because of certain Internet sites) and put it in print. His charges of the show's possible manipulation are probably well founded (I doubt that Stacey Stillman, a well-trained and educated lawyer would sue CBS just on circumstantial evidence). In any case, Lance's observations and allegations bring a greater understanding to how surreal SURVIVOR is and his examination of Hatch gives some insight on how to not just play and win the game, but to keep on playing long after the game is over. A great read.	2001-02-13
