1341:US	53016962	R1LWGVXXJ2EQAE	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	How do you silence a King critic?  Give him Different Seasons	For all those who doubt the fact that Stephen King is one of the all-time great masters at the craft of writing, there is Different Seasons.  If nothing else, the doubters should at least acknowledge King's important contribution to reviving the lost art of the novella.  King has always said he would write, whether he ever sold a single book - and I think that is completely true.  He didn't write these four novellas with publication in mind; each one was written immediately after the completion of a best-selling novel - and each one just sort of sat there after it was finished.  What, after all, can a modern author really do with manuscripts too long to be short stories and too short to be novels?  Eventually, the idea came to King to just publish them together, with a title that speaks to the fact that these are not the author's usual blood-dripping, creepy-crawling horror stories.  In doing so, he not only gave us four of his most captivating works of fiction, he showed a whole new generation of readers the vast, inherent power of the novella.<br /><br />Three of these four novellas are even better-known than many of King's best-selling novels - due in no small part to the movie adaptations that followed in their wake.  It all started with the film Stand By Me - which was not marketed as an adaptation of a Stephen King work of fiction.  This was a smart move, considering some of the weak adaptations of earlier King novels.  I can only guess how many impressed moviegoers were shocked to learn that Stand By Me was adapted from King's novella The Body.  It's a story of four boys who set off to see a dead body, that of another kid hit by a train; their adventure makes for an extraordinary coming-of-age story.  It is, in fact, a story about childhood, founded upon a mysterious event in King's own early days (he supposedly saw a friend hit by a train when he was four years old - but there has always been some question as to whether or not this is true); The Body feels autobiographical, and it truly does recapture the essence of childhood and the maturing process into adolescence.  I like to think of The Body as a fantastic warm-up to King's later novel It, which captures the essence of childhood almost perfectly.<br /><br />Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption gave birth to Shawshank Redemption, the most critically acclaimed and popular of all King movie adaptations.  I think the movie is even better than the novella (largely due to Morgan Freeman), but everything that shines in the movie is here in the novella.  An innocent man, convicted of killing his wife and her lover, gives new meaning to the term patient resolve - and has a profound effect on some of his fellow prisoners.  I think it's the ultimate prison story, as it shows us the good and the bad of prison life and imbues its characters with a humanity rarely seen in prison-based stories.  It's just a stellar piece of writing.<br /><br />Apt Pupil is my favorite, though, and it finally, after years of fits and starts and rumors, was made into a film in 1998.  The movie did make some changes to the original storyline, but it was a vastly underrated film that truly embodied the spirit of King's original novella.  The most horrible things can oftentimes be the most fascinating.  I know I've always been fascinated by everything that took place in the Third Reich.  The teenager in the story, though, is obsessed with those atrocities, and that obsession turns into something increasingly disquieting and dangerous when he discovers a former Nazi living under another name in his neighborhood and blackmails him into telling him all the \\"gooshy\\" details of his part in the Holocaust.  Apt Pupil is one of the most impressive psychological studies of evil I've ever read.<br /><br />The Breathing Method sort of gets lost in the shuffle.  It's shorter than the other novellas and has never been adapted for film.  I really like this story, though.  It has a classic fireside story feelto it, hearkening back to the likes of Poe, with its mysterious gentlemen's \\"club\\" and emphasis on story-telling.  The particular story we are privileged to hear about is in some ways rather ridiculous and certainly quite melodramatic - yet it works extremely well.  The novella was dedicated to Peter and Susan Straub, and I think it shows the obvious influence of horror maestro Straub from top to bottom (which, to my mind, is a good thing).<br /><br />The Breathing Method supplies the theme that serves as a sort of mantra for the entire collection: It is the tale, not he who tells it.  The story is everything, and the author is sort of a literary midwife who helps the birthing process along.  I heartily believe that many a King critic would fawn over Different Seasons if they read it without knowing who wrote it.  This book is a perfect introduction for those yet to experience King for themselves - these are, for the most part, mainstream works of fiction that reveal a master storyteller at work.ory feel to it, hearkening back to the likes of Poe, with its mysterious gentlemen's \\"club\\" and emphasis on story-telling.  The particular story we are privileged to hear about is in some ways rather ridiculous and certainly quite melodramatic - yet it works extremely well.  The novella was dedicated to Peter and Susan Straub, and I think it shows the obvious influence of horror maestro Straub from top to bottom (which, to my mind, is a good thing).   <br /> <br />The Breathing Method supplies the theme that serves as a sort of mantra for the entire collection: It is the tale, not he who tells it.  The story is everything, and the author is sort of a literary midwife who helps the birthing process along.  I heartily believe that many a King critic would fawn over Different Seasons if they read it without knowing who wrote it.  This book is a perfect introduction for those yet to experience King for themselves - these are, for the most part, mainstream works of fiction that reveal a master storyteller at work.	2005-10-13
14985:US	53016962	R2EBQB71751ZN2	0091794994	446570315	The Devil's Halo	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A masterful spy thriller for the twenty-first century	The Devil's Halo is an incredible, addictive thriller that will have you racing through its pages - especially if you're an American.  The whole plot revolves around an act of sabotage and ultimate betrayal by those claiming to be America's friends.  France and Russia join forces in an attempt to cripple the American defense system in one overpowering, electronic blow by taking out the GPS network of the United States (and thereby the greater part of America's capability to defend itself militarily).  In this plausible future setting, NATO has crumbled as the Greater European Union has grown strong, with France and Russia pulling all its strings.  Having consolidated their power over Europe, the new partners take steps to remove the only nation capable of holding them in check - with a brilliantly devious plan that the Americans will never see coming.<br /><br />America's only hope lies in an American economic spy and his wife, a brilliant scientist from the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency.  Terry Weston went to Moscow to reclaim a stolen movie disk, having no clue that he would soon become the sole line of defense against what would soon become known as E-Day.  The stolen movie's importance lay in its encryption, which was based on the Pentagon's own stalwart encryption.  Someone had decrypted it, and the CIA needed to know who, how, and why.  Economic spies normally don't see a whole lot of James Bond-type action, but Weston, with his wife and little girl in imminent danger themselves, is compelled to go above and beyond the call of duty in service to his country.<br /><br />The Westons have some remarkable high-tech gadgetry at their disposal that provides them with intelligence they could never have gotten the old-fashioned way.  They can only stay a step ahead of the enemy for so long, however, and that is when things get really tricky.  Weston finds himself cutting deals with bad guys even as he questions whom he can really trust among the good guys - there's a mole somewhere close, personally connected with his wife's military-industrial father.  To make matters worse, the powers that be back home aren't inclined to listen to his dire warnings of an imminent national defense disaster.  The story doesn't end with the arrival of E-Day, either; in fact, that's when things really get interesting.<br /><br />The Devil's Halo is a meticulously crafted thriller that covers a lot of ground (with activity taking place across three continents as well as outer space).  I can only hope the high-tech espionage and technological intrigues of the book aren't as plausible as Fox makes them sound - this book is quite realistic enough to be a little bit scary.  Many pundits (and non-pundits like myself) believe a showdown of one sort or another between America and Europe is inevitable.  Russia is an ally in name only, France - well, don't even get me started on France, and the issue of planetary defense has already played a major role in modern history.  The specter of SDI got Gorbachev to the bargaining table with Reagan, so it's certainly conceivable that the establishment of a Space Shield by the Americans would compel the Russians and French to take drastic steps to avoid a repeat of such ignominy.<br /><br />The bottom line is that The Devil's Halo isn't your run-of-the-mill spy thriller.  It's more immediate, more realistic, more sophisticated, and more compelling than most other novels of its kind.  It has everything I was looking for in a spy thriller for the twenty-first century.good guys - there's a mole somewhere close, personally connected with his wife's military-industrial father.  To make matters worse, the powers that be back home aren't inclined to listen to his dire warnings of an imminent national defense disaster.  The story doesn't end with the arrival of E-Day, either; in fact, that's when things really get interesting.   <br /> <br />The Devil's Halo is a meticulously crafted thriller that covers a lot of ground (with activity taking place across three continents as well as outer space).  I can only hope the high-tech espionage and technological intrigues of the book aren't as plausible as Fox makes them sound - this book is quite realistic enough to be a little bit scary.  Many pundits (and non-pundits like myself) believe a showdown of one sort or another between America and Europe is inevitable.  Russia is an ally in name only, France - well, don't even get me started on France, and the issue of planetary defense has already played a major role in modern history.  The specter of SDI got Gorbachev to the bargaining table with Reagan, so it's certainly conceivable that the establishment of a Space Shield by the Americans would compel the Russians and French to take drastic steps to avoid a repeat of such ignominy.   <br /> <br />The bottom line is that The Devil's Halo isn't your run-of-the-mill spy thriller.  It's more immediate, more realistic, more sophisticated, and more compelling than most other novels of its kind.  It has everything I was looking for in a spy thriller for the twenty-first century.	2005-10-05
16084:US	53016962	R2T6YMFGZM0AE1	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	3	7	9	N	N	An exciting read that lacks the usual King depth	We've all heard the story about the writer who booked himself into a hotel on Friday and walked out Monday morning with a complete book in his hands (it was the Bible - he'd stolen it from the room).  With The Running Man, though, we have a complete novel that was written in only three days - and was published with almost no changes to that original draft.  Is it even possible to write a decent novel in three days?  Yes - but, obviously, The Running Man is not your typical Stephen King novel (which is a large part of the reason it was published under the pseudonym of Richard Bachman).  Action is the gas pedal, and King floored it from page one until the very end.  Surprisingly, though, there is some pretty decent characterization of the main player - and a heavy undertone of social commentary worked into the book.<br /><br />The setting is a future America in which society has totally fractured, leaving those on the wrong side of the tracks doomed to a life of misery.  Ben Richards personifies that social inequity - unable to find work because of his antiestablishment ways (for some reason, he didn't want to keep working at a job which exposed the old family jewels to dangerous amounts of radiation leakage), he can't take care of his family - his wife keeps turning tricks for money, and his 18-month-old daughter has the flu and will likely die without proper medicine.  There is only one way out for him - the Network Games.  The whole nation is fascinated with the Free-Vee game shows, shows such as Treadmill to Bucks or Swim With the Crocodiles.  No show satisfies the bloodlust of the public like The Running Man does, though, and a man of Richards' temperament is just the kind of player the show is looking for.<br /><br />The game is simple.  Richards is paraded out in front of the cameras, castigated as a dangerous low-life, then turned loose on the streets.  A few hours later, the show's Hunters begin going after him.  Richards wins money for every hour he can avoid capture (and by capture, I mean bloody death - broadcast live to the whole country), with bonuses for any cops killed along the way.  Best of all, the viewing public can win money for themselves by turning him in if they see him.  Richards proves himself a worthy contestant indeed - the Game in fact, will never be the same.<br /><br />This is one of my least favorite King novels, primarily because it's so action-oriented.  It doesn't put down roots, and it doesn't delve completely into the minds of any characters other than the protagonist.  It is, in fact, like a weak film adaptation of a King novel - stripped of all the nuances that make King such a special writer.  That's not to way this isn't an exciting novel because it is - that's about all it is, though.avoid capture (and by capture, I mean bloody death - broadcast live to the whole country), with bonuses for any cops killed along the way.  Best of all, the viewing public can win money for themselves by turning him in if they see him.  Richards proves himself a worthy contestant indeed - the Game in fact, will never be the same. <br /> <br />This is one of my least favorite King novels, primarily because it's so action-oriented.  It doesn't put down roots, and it doesn't delve completely into the minds of any characters other than the protagonist.  It is, in fact, like a weak film adaptation of a King novel - stripped of all the nuances that make King such a special writer.  That's not to way this isn't an exciting novel because it is - that's about all it is, though.	2005-10-04
16712:US	53016962	R2RKEMHUR2CZBL	0606037225	321732450	The Bachman Books: Rage, the Long Walk, Roadwork, the Running Man	Books	5	78	80	N	N	An absolute must for serious Stephen King fans	The true identify of Richard Bachman did not get out until the publication of Thinner, Bachman's fifth book.  These first four Bachman novels were the sorts of books you might find in a grocery store or - more likely - never have come across at all because they weren't really marketed at all - at Stephen King's request.  Naturally, they didn't sell all that well - not until the true author was revealed, of course.  These represent an interesting cross-section of King's writing life.  Rage and The Long Walk are truly early King novels, Roadwork emerged in between the novels 'Salem's Lot and The Shining, and The Running Man was published in 1982, the product of a mere seventy-two hours of writing.  They are quite different novels, yet they all share a common theme - a man displaced by society and doing what he can to combat the forces closing in around him.<br /><br />This collection is about the only place you can find the novel Rage these days.  After the Columbine tragedy, Stephen King basically had all copies of Rage pulled from the shelves.  The novel features a high school student who wigs out, shoots two teachers, and holds his class hostage for several hours.  The real heart of the story is the way the students react to their captor during their ordeal; they go way beyond merely sympathizing with him.  King really breaks down the emotional walls of these characters, mining some of the real issues that teenagers have to deal with in their lives.  To me, this novel is raw but instructive, surreal yet amazingly open and honest, and well worth reading.<br /><br />If you ask me, The Long Walk (written while King was a college freshman) may well be the most fascinating novel King has ever written.  It's a disarmingly simple tale centered on a seemingly mundane activity, yet in King's masterful hands The Long Walk burrows into the core of a number of characters, lays down miles of metaphors about the human condition, and absolutely mesmerizes you with its emotional force and power.  The contestants (all but one of whom will die - and they know it) do a lot of talking while they're walking; most of them dance around the \\"why\\" issue, but we see clues to some of the reasons as each lad draws closer and closer to death.  Cockiness turns to anger, fear, shock, and just about every other kind of dark emotion you can imagine.  The boys are stripped bare in both body and mind as the Walk goes on and on.  Through his characters, King is basically asking the reader how he/she will face death when it comes.  Will you freeze up early on?  How long will you fight to stay alive after you've pushed your body far beyond the breaking point?  Will you lie down and accept your fate, or will you lose control and lash out at your perceived enemies?  I could read this novel over and over again without ever growing tired of it.  It's just endlessly fascinating and illuminating.<br /><br />Roadwork represented an attempt on King's part to go straight, to prove he could write a mainstream novel.  In its essence, Roadwork is the story of a man pushed beyond his means of coping with change.  We the readers basically watch Bart Dawes go insane as the days pass.  We watch him lie to his wife and to himself, drink himself into nightly stupors, procure destructive objects from dangerous men, and plot revenge on those who have taken away the few things in life he could cling to.  At the center of his problem is his son Charlie, who died of a brain tumor three years earlier; George can't understand why his son had to die, and he can't bear the thought of his home, Charlie's home, being destroyed.  Even as we watch Dawes do some terrible things, we can't help but sympathize with a man so beaten down by the cruel vagaries of life.  King has said that Roadwork was in some ways a product of the death of his mother.  The book served as a vehicle to let him work through his own emotional issues over his loss.  Why does a loved one have to die?  That question permeates this novel.  It's a very personal story, but it is one almost any adult reader can relate to very well.  It's a surprisingly impressive exploration of emotional disintegration.<br /><br />With The Running Man, we have a complete novel that was written in only three days - and was published with almost no changes.  Obviously, The Running Man is not your typical Stephen King novel.  Action is the gas pedal, and King floored it from page one until the very end.  Surprisingly, though, there is some pretty decent characterization of the main player - and a heavy undertone of social commentary worked into the book.<br /><br />The setting is a future America in which society has totally fractured, leaving those on the wrong side of the tracks doomed to a life of misery.  Ben Richards personifies that social inequity.  Unable to provide for his wife and sick little girl, there is only one way out for him - the Network Games.  No show satisfies the bloodlust of the public like The Running Man, and a man of Richards' temperament is just the kind of player the show is looking for.  Richards proves himself a worthy contestant indeed - the Game in fact, will never be the same.  To me, this novel is like a weak film adaptation of a King novel - stripped of all the nuances that make King such a special writer.  That's not to way this isn't an exciting novel because it is - that's about all it is, though.on permeates this novel.  It's a very personal story, but it is one almost any adult reader can relate to very well.  It's a surprisingly impressive exploration of emotional disintegration.   <br /> <br />With The Running Man, we have a complete novel that was written in only three days - and was published with almost no changes.  Obviously, The Running Man is not your typical Stephen King novel.  Action is the gas pedal, and King floored it from page one until the very end.  Surprisingly, though, there is some pretty decent characterization of the main player - and a heavy undertone of social commentary worked into the book. <br /> <br />The setting is a future America in which society has totally fractured, leaving those on the wrong side of the tracks doomed to a life of misery.  Ben Richards personifies that social inequity.  Unable to provide for his wife and sick little girl, there is only one way out for him - the Network Games.  No show satisfies the bloodlust of the public like The Running Man, and a man of Richards' temperament is just the kind of player the show is looking for.  Richards proves himself a worthy contestant indeed - the Game in fact, will never be the same.  To me, this novel is like a weak film adaptation of a King novel - stripped of all the nuances that make King such a special writer.  That's not to way this isn't an exciting novel because it is - that's about all it is, though.	2005-10-04
18213:US	53016962	RZ8SWN00WW9TF	0451197879	321732450	Roadwork	Books	5	294	305	N	N	King's "mainstream" novel should not be overlooked	I think it's safe to say that Roadwork is King's least-read novel, largely because it represented an attempt on King's part to go straight, to prove he could write a mainstream novel.  Written in between 'Salem's Lot and The Shining, Roadwork was released in 1981 as Richard Bachman's third novel.  I first read it as a young teenager, and I no longer remembered a great deal about it - except that, at the time, I did find it somewhat boring.  King himself has never gone so far as to call Roadwork a good novel.  Reading it again now, though, I was surprised by the sophistication and emotional power of the story.  You almost have to have experienced some of the pressures of adulthood to really relate to the protagonist, Barton George Dawes, and it really doesn't matter that the story is imbedded in the socioeconomic worries of the early 1970s.  In its essence, Roadwork is the story of a man pushed beyond his means of coping with change.<br /><br />On the face of things, Dawes doesn't have it that bad.  He has a good wife, a good job, and friends.  Inside, though, he is suffering miserably - and has been since his little boy died of a brain tumor three years earlier.  Having never allowed himself to grieve properly, his mind proves unable to bear the disruptions caused by a new local road construction project.  He's worked for the same laundry since he got out of school, and it will have to relocate elsewhere because of the roadwork - and he is the one responsible for finding a new site.  He's lived in the same house since he got married, and it too has a fateful date with a wrecking ball - and he has to find a new home for him and his wife.  It's just too much for him, and he can't do it.  He lets the deal fall through on the new laundry site, which costs him his job, and he doesn't even go looking for a new house.  Haunted by dreams of his dead son, he's already a broken man - even before he loses his wife and basically his whole life.<br /><br />We the readers basically watch Bart Dawes go insane as the days pass.  We watch him lie to his wife and to himself, drink himself into nightly stupors, procure destructive objects from dangerous men, and plot revenge on those who have taken away the few things in life he could cling to.  At the center of his problem is Charlie; George can't understand why his son had to die, and he can't bear the thought of his home, Charlie's home, being destroyed.  The plot is somewhat analogous to that of the film Falling Down.  Even as we watch Dawes do some terrible things, we can't help but sympathize with a man so beaten down by the cruel vagaries of life.<br /><br />King has said that Roadwork was in some ways a product of the death of his mother.  After working hard to raise King and his brother single-handedly, she died just as King's material success as a writer was beginning.  The book served as a vehicle to let him work through his own emotional issues over his loss.  Why does a loved one have to die?  That question permeates this novel.  It's a very personal story, but it is one almost any adult reader can relate to very well.  King fans who have passed this novel by would do well to go back and give it a chance - it's much different from King's other novels, but it is a surprisingly impressive exploration of emotional disintegration.ically watch Bart Dawes go insane as the days pass.  We watch him lie to his wife and to himself, drink himself into nightly stupors, procure destructive objects from dangerous men, and plot revenge on those who have taken away the few things in life he could cling to.  At the center of his problem is Charlie; George can't understand why his son had to die, and he can't bear the thought of his home, Charlie's home, being destroyed.  The plot is somewhat analogous to that of the film Falling Down.  Even as we watch Dawes do some terrible things, we can't help but sympathize with a man so beaten down by the cruel vagaries of life.   <br /> <br />King has said that Roadwork was in some ways a product of the death of his mother.  After working hard to raise King and his brother single-handedly, she died just as King's material success as a writer was beginning.  The book served as a vehicle to let him work through his own emotional issues over his loss.  Why does a loved one have to die?  That question permeates this novel.  It's a very personal story, but it is one almost any adult reader can relate to very well.  King fans who have passed this novel by would do well to go back and give it a chance - it's much different from King's other novels, but it is a surprisingly impressive exploration of emotional disintegration.	2005-10-03
22100:US	53016962	R3N94SSR1EF9FM	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	5	615	630	N	N	A dark masterpiece - arguably King's most fascinating novel	If you ask me, The Long Walk may well be the most fascinating novel Stephen King has ever written.  Written back in 1966-67, while King was a college freshman, the novel earned the author nothing more than a form rejection letter.  Finally, after a few years of dust-gathering, the manuscript was released into a much more welcoming world in the form of Richard Bachman's second novel.  It's a magnificent story - not perfect, but magnificent nonetheless.  It's a disarmingly simple tale centered on a seemingly mundane activity, yet in King's masterful hands The Long Walk burrows into the core of a number of characters, lays down miles of metaphors about the human condition, and absolutely mesmerizes you with its emotional force and power.<br /><br />The setting is an alternate, possible fascist America; King leaves things pretty murky on the sociopolitical end of things, almost surely by design.  The Long Walk is really one of your \\"it can't happen in America\\" kind of stories, and the horror of it all (and, yes, I would categorize this as a horror novel) is made more powerful by obscuring the lines between our America and this fictionalized America.  Here, The Long Walk is the premier sporting event in the land.  Spectators turn out in droves, bets are made left and right, and the whole nation watches and cheers.  Obviously, this is not a regular walk, nor is it a race in the purist sense.  Endurance - mental even more than physical - is the key to victory in this sport.  To win, all you have to do is outlast 99 other competitors - and the winner receives nothing less than whatever he wants for the rest of his life.  Before you yell \\"Sign me up,\\" you'll want to hear about the details.  You have to maintain a pace of at least four miles per hour; fall below the pace, and you get a warning.  You are allowed three warnings (and you can \\"lose\\" a warning by walking another hour on the pace), and then you get ticketed.  Getting ticketed doesn't get you a place to rest or even a little much-needed nourishment; all it gets you is one or more bullets in the head.<br /><br />The obvious question is: why would anyone volunteer for this, knowing that he was almost surely going to die?  That's a large part of what this whole novel is about.  The contestants do a lot of talking while they're walking; most of them dance around the \\"why\\" issue, but we see clues to some of the reasons as each lad draws closer and closer to death.  For some, reality doesn't really set in until the guns started blazing.  Cockiness turns to anger, fear, shock, and just about every other kind of dark emotion you can imagine.  The boys are stripped bare in both body and mind as the Walk goes on and on, through all kinds of weather.  Through his characters, King is basically asking the reader how he/she will face death when it comes.  Will you freeze up early on?  How long will you fight to stay alive after you've pushed your body far beyond the breaking point?  Will you lie down and accept your fate, or will you lose control and lash out at your perceived enemies?<br /><br />The most weighty questions actually involve the crowd.  As the Walk progresses, more and more people come out to cheer the Watchers on, secretly hoping to see someone get ticketed before there very eyes.  This goes far beyond craning your neck to see everything you can at an accident scene.  For the Walkers, the crowd eventually becomes Crowd, an amorphous creature always right there roaring and grabbing at them, living (and dying) vicariously through them.  Obviously, one thing the Long Walk represents is life itself.  The Walkers literally age before our eyes as exhausting hours turn into ever darker, more painful days.  Death's approach changes every one of them.  Fate has its way with each one's odds of winning, allowing for no favorites among them, as even those with the most going for them sometimes find themselves felled by injuries and sickness.  During the journey, the Walkers arrange themselves into little groups, develop enemies, and help - or don't help - one another keep going.  Is life a competition or a journey?  Different things motivate them to keep going - family, a girl back home, or - for some - just the satisfaction of outlasting another Walker they don't like (oddly enough, the Prize never really seems to mean much to any of them).<br /><br />I could just go on and on with the symbolism of this story.  I haven't even described the characters, and I think it is better if I don't - except to say that the story is told from the perspective of \\"Maine's own\\" Walker, Ray Garraty.  I could read this novel over and over again without ever growing tired of it.  It's just endlessly fascinating and illuminating.  Even as a very young writer, King had a lot to say, he understood people, and - most of all - he knew how to tell a story better than just about everyone else who has ever lived.arrange themselves into little groups, develop enemies, and help - or don't help - one another keep going.  Is life a competition or a journey?  Different things motivate them to keep going - family, a girl back home, or - for some - just the satisfaction of outlasting another Walker they don't like (oddly enough, the Prize never really seems to mean much to any of them).   <br /> <br />I could just go on and on with the symbolism of this story.  I haven't even described the characters, and I think it is better if I don't - except to say that the story is told from the perspective of \\"Maine's own\\" Walker, Ray Garraty.  I could read this novel over and over again without ever growing tired of it.  It's just endlessly fascinating and illuminating.  Even as a very young writer, King had a lot to say, he understood people, and - most of all - he knew how to tell a story better than just about everyone else who has ever lived.	2005-10-01
25068:US	53016962	RQELV8EP2PH8A	0441010849	171804784	The Digital Dead	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Visionary hard sci-fi that never really came to life	While I would not call Bruce Balfour's The Digital Dead a full-fledged sequel to his novel The Forge of Mars, the story does pick up where that earlier novel left off, taking Balfour's unusual hero, Tau Wolfsinger, a NASA technician with a genius for artificial intelligence and an untraditional Navajo background, on an entirely new adventure, the most intense action of which takes place in cyberspace.  Having returned safely from Mars, where Tau helped destroy a secret Russian military base and his girlfriend Kate McCloud acquired a powerful mental connection with an alien AI who appeared to her in the form of the ancient Egyptian god Thoth, the happy couple hopes to finally begin a normal life together on Earth.  Alas, within two months, mystery men attempt to kidnap Kate and kill Tau, throwing both of their lives into turmoil once again.<br /><br />After two novels, the mysterious Davos Group, an Illuminati-like secret society basically controlling the world from deep within the shadows, still remains - in my opinion - too much of a mystery to the reader, but fortunately Balfour does follow up on a few events from The Forge of Mars that seemed to serve little purpose in the earlier novel.  Senator Aaron Thorne, the son (genetically-speaking, anyway) of Tau's late mentor Max Thorne, now makes his power play for the Presidency, acquiring a type of control over current-President Rex King that even the most ruthless of political advisors can only dream about, but the renegade genius Tau Wolfsinger stands in his way as a potential and annoyingly unpredictable threat to his aspirations when Tau becomes privy to certain information regarding Thorne's involvement with Elysian Fields.  Ostensibly, Elysian Fields is a digital resting place for the dead.  Virtually everyone now has a network slot on the back of his/her neck, wherein a special digital chip is encoded with all of a person's memories.  Thus, through the wonders of modern technology, family members can now visit with the life-like avatars of their departed love ones whenever they like (if they can afford it).  Thorne attempts to use \\"the digital dead\\" to influence the political motivations of the living; it is a scheme that would make LBJ proud, but it comes across as needless and a little silly to me.<br /><br />The Digital Dead features a memorable cast of characters, some of whom we met in a more limited fashion in The Forge of Mars.  Undoubtedly the most fascinating group of people in Balfour's future Earth are the Veggies; these individuals are super-environmentalists who refuse to eat plants as well as animals; instead, they have adapted photosynthetic patches for their bodies so they can live on sunlight alone.  Equally eccentric are Brother Digital and the Pingers, purveyors of a new religion wherein illumination is to be found with the mysterious virtual-reality Entity.  Before the cybernetic showdown for the ages comes to a head, you will witness the most unbelievable political assassination of all time, marvel at the theft of a dead former President's digital identity, and encounter some of the most incredible and daring advertising campaigns ever dreamed of.  Balfour, an expert in the field of artificial intelligence himself, somehow holds the entire story together, but character development remains, for me, a weakness in his writing.  All of his characters, including Tau in particular, never seem real or life-like to me.  Those who love visionary hard science fiction will be fascinated by the ideas Bruce Balfour introduces in The Digital Dead, and many readers may adore his larger-than-life, inarguably unique characters, but I personally felt as if I was watching life-like holograms running inside a simulator rather than real people living extraordinary future lives.it with the life-like avatars of their departed love ones whenever they like (if they can afford it).  Thorne attempts to use \\"the digital dead\\" to influence the political motivations of the living; it is a scheme that would make LBJ proud, but it comes across as needless and a little silly to me.   <br /> <br />The Digital Dead features a memorable cast of characters, some of whom we met in a more limited fashion in The Forge of Mars.  Undoubtedly the most fascinating group of people in Balfour's future Earth are the Veggies; these individuals are super-environmentalists who refuse to eat plants as well as animals; instead, they have adapted photosynthetic patches for their bodies so they can live on sunlight alone.  Equally eccentric are Brother Digital and the Pingers, purveyors of a new religion wherein illumination is to be found with the mysterious virtual-reality Entity.  Before the cybernetic showdown for the ages comes to a head, you will witness the most unbelievable political assassination of all time, marvel at the theft of a dead former President's digital identity, and encounter some of the most incredible and daring advertising campaigns ever dreamed of.  Balfour, an expert in the field of artificial intelligence himself, somehow holds the entire story together, but character development remains, for me, a weakness in his writing.  All of his characters, including Tau in particular, never seem real or life-like to me.  Those who love visionary hard science fiction will be fascinated by the ideas Bruce Balfour introduces in The Digital Dead, and many readers may adore his larger-than-life, inarguably unique characters, but I personally felt as if I was watching life-like holograms running inside a simulator rather than real people living extraordinary future lives.	2005-09-29
26252:US	53016962	R3HQCDX17AD349	0786700203	206081828	The Real World of Sherlock Holmes: The True Crime Casebooks of Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A look at the Holmesian side of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	This is a quite interesting book that chronicles the real-life interests of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in an assortment of past and contemporary crimes and, in so doing, provides bits of insight into the molding and evolution of the character of Sherlock Holmes.  Doyle did not actually take an active part in all of the cases discussed here; several were historic cases to which he took an interest and, in most cases, puts his thoughts in writing.  As one can imagine, he did receive a great many requests for help from readers far and wide; as the creator of Sherlock Holmes, some desperate folks looked upon Doyle himself as a last resort when the authorities proved unable to assist them.<br /><br />The author makes much of an episode involving the death of a young man in the young Dr. Doyle's care, citing this as a true springboard to the creation of Sherlock Holmes.  Doyle had taken in a young man suffering from meningitis, and the lad died during the night.  A police detective popped by for a visit concerning the case, and this may have given Doyle a real sense of how easily an innocent man might find himself branded a criminal.  In this particular case, Doyle might have given the lad too much of the standard treatment, he had already taken a shine to the lad's sister (whom he married some months later) who stood to inherit a decent amount of money upon her brother's death, and an anonymous letter to the police had alerted them to Doyle's involvement in the first place.  Had a fellow doctor not been there to see the patient just hours before his death, an exhumation of the body in and of itself could have destroyed Doyle's young medical career.  Exactly one year later, he sat down to begin A Study in Scarlet.  The whole experience also, Costello suggests, spurred Doyle's lifetime interest in helping those who look guilty but may possibly be innocent.<br /><br />Costello follows a chronological approach to the cases that interested Doyle, and it is quite interesting to see the changes that followed upon Doyle's full embrace of spiritualism in the fall of 1916.  Thus, when Agatha Christie disappeared, for example, Doyle sought insight from a psychometrist (whose prediction did hit the target) - this new dependence on the supernatural marks an intriguing dissonance with the harsh rational analysis of evidence by the great Sherlock Holmes himself.  Doyle's involvement in the Crimes Club is intriguing for the very reason that the discussions of this informal group of armchair sleuths remain quite secretive to this day.<br /><br />Among the crimes that interested Doyle were the theft of the Irish crown jewels (from the care of his cousin), the mystery of Jack the Ripper (of course), the Crippen murder case, the Vanzetti and Sacco case, a number of American crimes, as well as crimes he stumbled upon during his travels to Australia and South Africa.  A few seem to bear special mention.  First and foremost is the case of George Edalji, the son of a vicar from India and his English wife.  Edalji was convicted in 1903 for the crime of mutilating farm animals in his community over a period of months.  The evidence looks quite ridiculous, but the Home Office and local police were less than helpful to Doyle in his efforts, even when Doyle basically wrapped the whole case up in a pretty little bow and handed it to them; he did succeed in getting Edalji released after serving only half his sentence, but the authorities seemed implacable in their persecution of the man for what amounts to nothing more than the color of his skin.  Then there was the case of Oscar Slater, who was convicted of the 1908 murder of Miss Marion Gilchrist.  While Doyle had no illusions as to the unsavory character of Slater himself, he spent sixteen years trying to prove Slater's innocence.  The murderer, it seems clear, was a Dr. Charteris, whom the police conspired to protect owing to the fact that he belonged to one of the most influential families in Scotland.  Doyle had a personal connection to a few cases.  His old friend Sir Roger Casement was convicted of treason for trying to foment an Irish rebellion, and Doyle was very much surprised to learn in 1921 that his former chauffeur Jules Bonnot had gone on to become the infamous \\"motor-bandit\\" of France.<br /><br />Perhaps the most interesting facet of this book is the illumination it shines upon some of the sources for Doyle's Sherlock Holmes mysteries, as actual cases he investigated did inspire a number of his fictional stories.  This is by no means a biography of Doyle, of course, and in some cases more information is really required in order to reach a fuller understanding of Doyle's interests and reactions.  While he may have been called upon in certain cases to exercise his own deductive reasoning, Doyle never exceeded the role of amateur criminologist and in a few cases his involvement probably did more harm than good.  Still, all of this helps the Holmesians among us to get a better idea of how much of Doyle himself went into the creation of the most famous detective of all time.d.  Doyle had a personal connection to a few cases.  His old friend Sir Roger Casement was convicted of treason for trying to foment an Irish rebellion, and Doyle was very much surprised to learn in 1921 that his former chauffeur Jules Bonnot had gone on to become the infamous \\"motor-bandit\\" of France.   <br /> <br />Perhaps the most interesting facet of this book is the illumination it shines upon some of the sources for Doyle's Sherlock Holmes mysteries, as actual cases he investigated did inspire a number of his fictional stories.  This is by no means a biography of Doyle, of course, and in some cases more information is really required in order to reach a fuller understanding of Doyle's interests and reactions.  While he may have been called upon in certain cases to exercise his own deductive reasoning, Doyle never exceeded the role of amateur criminologist and in a few cases his involvement probably did more harm than good.  Still, all of this helps the Holmesians among us to get a better idea of how much of Doyle himself went into the creation of the most famous detective of all time.	2005-09-29
27044:US	53016962	R2GYJNJJOM0XHK	0872206335	362735409	Plato: Five Dialogues: Euthyphro, Apology, Crito, Meno, Phaedo (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	79	84	N	N	The death of Socrates and the basics of Platonic philosophy	Many are the college students who have read the Platonic discourses collected in this volume. Along with The Republic, these dialogues form the most basic core of Platonic philosophy and are required reading for anyone interested in the art of philosophy.<br /><br />In the Euthyphro dialogue, Socrates is on his way to court to answer the charges of Meletus that he creates his own gods and does not believe in the gods of society. On his way, he meets Euthyphro, a lawyer-priest of some sort who tells Socrates that he is prosecuting his own father for the murder of a slave (a slave who had himself committed murder). Socrates compels the learned Euthyphro to explain to him the truth about what is pious and what impious; if he can tell the court what he has learned from the knowledgeable Euthyphro, he will have no trouble countering Meletus' charges. Euthyphro tries to define what is pious as that which is pleasing to the gods, but Socrates shows him that his definition is really just an effect of piety, and Euthyphro bows out of the circular conversation without ever giving Socrates a satisfactory definition of true piety.<br /><br />In The Apology, Socrates defends himself from both the recent charges of Meletus for impiety as well as the host of charges long leveled at him as being a corrupter of the youth. He cites a pronouncement of the Delphic oracle that he is the wisest of all men and explains how he has spent his life trying to vindicate the god's pronouncement by seeking out the wisest men in society and testing them. The wisest men, he says, turn out to be not wise at all. He himself knows he is not wise, while the supposedly wise think they are wise when they are not, and he has concluded that the gods believe that the wisest man is the man who knows how much he does not know. The fact that he shows men that they are not in fact wise has admittedly made Socrates unpopular and turned the minds of many citizens against him. He bravely says he will continue philosophizing if he is acquitted because the god himself compels him to do so. In fact, he says society benefits from what he is doing (namely, trying to make men more virtuous), and he defends himself by saying that society itself will be harmed by his execution. Of course, claiming that he is actually a gift of the god for Athens is a hard way to win over a jury already biased against him. Upon his conviction, he willingly accepts the death sentence imposed upon him, but he, somewhat oddly, warns his fellow citizens that there are younger men ready to come out and question individuals in the same manner as he has done.<br /><br />In the Crito, Socrates convinces his friend Crito that it is just and right for him to accede to the punishment of death returned by the Athenian jury. He feels that he has been wronged by men but not the laws or society, and to escape from prison and run away would make of him the very type of man the jury wrongly concluded him to be. It is an exceedingly elegant and brave discourse.<br /><br />Meno is one of Plato's early and, to my mind, least successful, Socratic dialogues. The conversation centers, naturally enough, on virtue and whether or not it is teachable. Meno's definitions of virtue are woefully inadequate, by and large, and deserving of Socrates' typical arrogance. At one point, Meno says that one cannot learn about what one does not know. To counter this argument, Socrates, arguing that the soul is eternal and that learning is in fact recollection, sets about showing how a slave \\"remembers\\" the answers to geometrical questions Socrates puts to him. Later, when Meno agrees with the notion that virtue is knowledge and can be taught, Socrates counters the point by saying he has yet to find anyone who truly practices virtue and is thus qualified to teach it. In the end, Socrates concludes that virtue cannot be taught and is in fact a gift of the gods.<br /><br />The Phaedo is a third-person account of the philosophical discussion between Socrates and his friends on the day of his death. Socrates accepts his fate most amicably, arguing that death is the means by which to achieve the aims of true philosophy, for only by escaping the evil of the body can the soul truly acquire wisdom. Socrates renews his argument that learning is in fact recollection, supposedly proving that the soul exists before birth. He also argues that everything comes from its opposite; if death comes from life, then life must come from death. The proofs he offers for his belief that the soul is eternal do not strike me as very convincing. In many ways, the Phaedo is a precursor to much of the philosophy of The Republic, in which the concepts of the eternal soul and the invisible Forms mentioned here are threshed out much more satisfactorily.al discussion between Socrates and his friends on the day of his death. Socrates accepts his fate most amicably, arguing that death is the means by which to achieve the aims of true philosophy, for only by escaping the evil of the body can the soul truly acquire wisdom. Socrates renews his argument that learning is in fact recollection, supposedly proving that the soul exists before birth. He also argues that everything comes from its opposite; if death comes from life, then life must come from death. The proofs he offers for his belief that the soul is eternal do not strike me as very convincing. In many ways, the Phaedo is a precursor to much of the philosophy of The Republic, in which the concepts of the eternal soul and the invisible Forms mentioned here are threshed out much more satisfactorily.	2005-09-29
27282:US	53016962	R3LK18Y45BBKF	0915144182	237604895	Phaedo (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The bridge between the early dialogues and The Republic	The Phaedo is a third-person account of the philosophical discussion between Socrates and his friends on the day of his death. Socrates accepts his fate most amicably, arguing that death is the means by which to achieve the aims of true philosophy, for only by escaping the evil of the body can the soul truly acquire wisdom. Socrates renews his argument that learning is in fact recollection, supposedly proving that the soul exists before birth. He also argues that everything comes from its opposite; if death comes from life, then life must come from death. The proofs he offers for his belief that the soul is eternal do not strike me as very convincing.<br /><br />As the account of Socrates' final hours, the Phaedo is a corollary of sorts to the Apology and Crito, but it addresses certain themes those earlier dialogues did not.  In many ways, the Phaedo is a precursor to much of the philosophy of The Republic, in which the concepts of the eternal soul and the invisible Forms addressed here are threshed out much more satisfactorily.  Given the importance of these concepts later in The Republic and the formative yet lengthy discussion of them here in the Phaedo, this is a crucial dialogue in terms of understanding the overall philosophical arguments of Plato.	2005-09-29
27778:US	53016962	R5283M5160S4U	0743269098	820501581	Why Business People Speak Like Idiots: A Bullfighter's Guide	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A common sense approach to communicating effectively	I daresay this is the only business-related book dedicated to Mr. T.  That alone gives you a good sense of the approach the authors take in this well-met ode to common sense.  Even if their advice were worthless (it's not), this would still be an entertaining read - full of humor and real-life examples we are all too familiar with.  This really is a book that should never have needed to be written.  Business people should never have fallen into the traps the authors pointedly identify here - but business language has not only fallen into the quicksand of increasingly senseless drivel, it continues to flay around even as it sinks ever farther down.<br /><br />The irony is that business people speak like idiots because they want others to think they are intellectual giants.  They throw in all kinds of big words, engage in self-congratulatory nonsense, faithfully adhere to CYA principles, and basically try to impress their audiences with their incredible intellect.  They walk away from the podium feeling as if they really poured it on, while the audience walks out (after waking up) taking nothing the speaker said with them.<br /><br />The authors identify four traps that cripple the effectiveness of business communication: the Obscurity Trap, the Anonymity Trap, the Hard-Sell Trap, and the Tedium Trap.  They make very valid points about each one.  Obscurity comes from the desire to show everyone how smart you are.  Even the simplest concept must have the fanciest of names, and the result is mindless jargon, meaningless phrases, and an alphabet soup of acronyms.  It's the ability to say nothing in as many words (especially big words) as possible.  Anonymity seems to be bred within the corporate environment, making business people little more than invisible cogs in the great business machine.  You're not supposed to think for yourself, do anything the slightest bit out of the ordinary, and heaven forbid you should actually have a personality and let even a tiny bit of it show in your work.  The hard-sell is almost the equivalent of lying.  This creates the used car salesmen of the business world.  Ideas and proposals are promoted as if they were heavenly edicts; the product is nothing short of perfect, even better than perfect, and any potential or known problems are swept under the rug.  People see through the hard-sell; if your business is on the brink of bankruptcy, a big speech about how well everyone is weathering the storm inspires only negative reactions.  Tedium comes from an ingrained fear business people have of putting something of themselves into their presentations.  Speakers tell audiences what they want to tell them; they don't consider what the audience itself wants or needs to hear, and in this PC world of today, people are so afraid of offending someone that they would rather drown their audiences in monotonous drivel than to inject anything spontaneous or remotely interesting into their speeches or writings.<br /><br />I think it is true that the authors sometimes go a little too far in terms of their advice and suggestions, but their real point is delivered in a wonderfully effective manner.  It all boils down to being yourself; you should be the same person at work that you are on the weekends.  Put something of yourself in your work, allow for spontaneity and flexibility in your business speaking and writing, engage your audience by showing them you are actually a human being just like them, be honest about problems and take responsibility for identifying and correcting them, etc.  The book is just chock full of extremely helpful advice, and I think anyone - not just professional-types - can benefit immensely from reading this entertaining, extremely helpful little book.r work.  The hard-sell is almost the equivalent of lying.  This creates the used car salesmen of the business world.  Ideas and proposals are promoted as if they were heavenly edicts; the product is nothing short of perfect, even better than perfect, and any potential or known problems are swept under the rug.  People see through the hard-sell; if your business is on the brink of bankruptcy, a big speech about how well everyone is weathering the storm inspires only negative reactions.  Tedium comes from an ingrained fear business people have of putting something of themselves into their presentations.  Speakers tell audiences what they want to tell them; they don't consider what the audience itself wants or needs to hear, and in this PC world of today, people are so afraid of offending someone that they would rather drown their audiences in monotonous drivel than to inject anything spontaneous or remotely interesting into their speeches or writings.      I think it is true that the authors sometimes go a little too far in terms of their advice and suggestions, but their real point is delivered in a wonderfully effective manner.  It all boils down to being yourself; you should be the same person at work that you are on the weekends.  Put something of yourself in your work, allow for spontaneity and flexibility in your business speaking and writing, engage your audience by showing them you are actually a human being just like them, be honest about problems and take responsibility for identifying and correcting them, etc.  The book is just chock full of extremely helpful advice, and I think anyone - not just professional-types - can benefit immensely from reading this entertaining, extremely helpful little book.	2005-09-28
30023:US	53016962	R2T8K9LFN90K58	0385473079	894338649	The Return of the Prodigal Son: A Story of Homecoming	Books	5	28	30	N	N	An illuminating look at the parable from all angles	There have probably been more sermons written about the parable of the prodigal son than any other passage in the Bible.  This seemingly simple story is full of truth and meaning, and it seems that every such sermon I hear brings out something entirely new, fresh, and instructive.  The best such sermon I've ever heard came only a year ago - by focusing on the elder son, the preacher gave me a completely new perspective on the parable.  It was that sermon that convinced me to pick this book up when I came across it.<br /><br />Nouwen's The Return of the Prodigal Son is basically a lengthy meditation on the famous parable in conjunction with Rembrandt's portrait of the same name.  It is a very personal story, as Nouwen relates how the painting and its subject matter have inspired him and facilitated his focus on God over a number of years.  One could say that Nouwen is in fact obsessed with Rembrandt's painting, but it's definitely the healthiest of obsessions.  In times of struggle and self-doubt, Nouwen describes the strength and inspiration he has garnered from The Return of the Prodigal Son.  The truly remarkable thing about his narrative is the level of raw honesty he confesses about his own weaknesses and temptations.  Few men of the cloth would confess to the inner struggles Nouwen discusses at length, and that makes this book much more meaningful and instructive for Christians than most other books on the Christian bookshelf.<br /><br />Nouwen relates how his focus on the painting shifted over the years.  Originally, he was drawn to the image of the prodigal son himself, and he could see many ways in which he himself strayed from his true Father for worldly reasons.  It's easy for anyone to relate to the prodigal son, but Nouwen transcends the common perceptions to examine the spiritual depths of such prodigality.  He expresses in quite elegant terms just how difficult it is to allow ourselves to accept God's unconditional forgiveness.  Like the prodigal son, we find ourselves retracing our steps back home, hoping to receive only a minor punishment for our transgressions.  Our guilt and sins lie heavy on our hearts, and it is hard for us to understand the nature of God's unconditional love and forgiveness for us.  Just permitting ourselves to accept complete forgiveness goes against our human nature, and Nouwen speaks eloquently on this point.<br /><br />Later on in the author's life, someone suggested he had more in common with the elder brother than the prodigal son, and this opened up a whole new level of spiritual understanding for him.  The elder son is often overlooked in the parable, but it is important to see that he has also strayed.  Having lived a life of servitude and faithfulness, never giving in to the appetites that consumed his younger brother, he is upset to see his father heap love on the lowly brother who rejected the father and squandered his inheritance.  The elder brother represented the Pharisees and scribes of Jesus' times, men who thought themselves fully invested in the service of God.  Thinking they alone should be favored by God, they unknowingly rejected His unconditional love in their self-righteousness and resentful treatment of those they considered beneath them.  Just as sinners will do well to look at the prodigal son, many a Christian should examine the elder son in a course of self-examination of their own life.  God loves and forgives all of his children equally.<br /><br />The final and primary emphasis of Nouwen's book, though, is the Father.  Having seen aspects of both brothers in his own life, the author eventually came to realize that the real challenge of the parable is the need for the Christian to become more like the father.  He expounds with great insight on the incomprehensible love that God has for all of His children.  God loves us so much that he lets us choose whether or not to accept Him, even as He waits with open arms for each of his prodigal children to come home;He loves us so much that he sent his Son to die on the cross to save us from our sins.  The key to becoming like the Father is compassion, and Nouwen closes the book by suggesting several ways in which we can try to develop the divine gift of compassion.<br /><br />The Return of the Prodigal Son is a truly inspirational, instructive read that will help any and all Christian readers enhance their relationship with God.e home; He loves us so much that he sent his Son to die on the cross to save us from our sins.  The key to becoming like the Father is compassion, and Nouwen closes the book by suggesting several ways in which we can try to develop the divine gift of compassion. <br /> <br />The Return of the Prodigal Son is a truly inspirational, instructive read that will help any and all Christian readers enhance their relationship with God.	2005-09-27
35090:US	53016962	R2E5KFPA5K0ZIS	0671981862	405710282	My Teacher, 4 Vol., Boxed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A most entertaining series aimed at younger readers	With books such as this, by authors as gifted as Bruce Coville, it is harden to imagine that some kids just do not have any interest in reading. Heck, I'm an adult, and I loved these books. Neither too long nor too short, they put believable characters in an extraordinary situation, and they mix humor with warmth and intelligence.  The series revolves around three pretty normal kids on Earth - the smart and brave Susan Simmons, nerdy dreamer Peter Thompson, and bully turned nice guy with newly-acquired brain-fried intelligence Duncan Dougal.<br /><br />In My Teacher is an Alien, Susan is dismayed to discover that the new substitute teacher is actually an alien who has come here to take five students back with him to wherever he came from. What's a girl to do? She turns to Peter, a smart but unmotivated boy who eats, lives, and breathes science fiction. He doesn't exactly buy her story at first, but together they find enough evidence to convince him that she is telling the truth. Now all they have to do is rescue their original teacher, avoid being carried off into space by Mr. Smith, and somehow prove to even the most skeptical of adults that \\"we are not alone.\\"<br /><br />Duncan Dougal, class bully and somewhat questionable ally in the previous adventure, takes center stage in My Teacher Fried My Brain. Here, we see inside his unhappy life, come to understand why he lashes out at people the way he does, and admire his effort to turn over a new leaf in life with the help of an artificially-advanced intelligence.<br /><br />The kids are now in seventh grade, and Duncan's first day is a rough one; as always, he finds trouble, and this time trouble reaches back and finds him as well. He makes a startling discovery - a discarded human hand. That can mean only one thing: there is another alien at the school. Like Susan in the first book, Duncan does not know what to do. He knows no one will believe him, not even his classmates; you would think the adults in town might be of some help, but they have all started pretending that the alien business of last spring didn't actually happen. Duncan soon thinks he has found the answer to his problem, though.  After taking part in a demonstration of static electricity, one in which a machine zapped his brain, he began to feel smarter all of a sudden; he soon decides to sneak in to the lab and give himself additional brain-frying treatments. Despite all of his new-found intelligence, though, he has little success in figuring out who the other alien in school is. The ensuing action is not bad, plus we meet a memorable and mysterious alien pet called a poot, but a few aspects of this story resemble pretty closely the strange events chronicled in the first book.<br /><br />My Teacher Glows in the Dark fills in the gap separating books one and two. Peter left with the alien Broxholm at the end of book one and showed up back on earth at the end of book two, and now we get to hear what he has been doing up in space over the course of the earth's summer.  Instead of dealing with an alien among humans, we now have a human among aliens, and this makes for a decidedly entertaining read. We meet all kinds of aliens, learn a few things about alien cultures, and get to see all kinds of unusual technology in use. In addition to this, the human side of the story takes on much more significance. As luck would have it, the Interplanetary Council is debating whether or not to destroy Earth, and Peter finds himself smack dab in the middle of trying to save the world he left behind. Peter's friendships with several aliens on board the ship are really quite touching, as is his passion for doing whatever he, a boy of about twelve, can do to save his home planet.<br /><br />I have to admit I was a little disappointed in the concluding story of the series. My Teacher Flunked the Planet is a much more serious book than its predecessors, conveying a strong message about human society. While it addresses important issues such as war, poverty, starvation, and other social ills, it comes off as a tad preachy in places. With the fate of the Earth hanging in the balance, it is up to the series' three young heroes to convince a worried Interplanetary Council that the planet should be spared.<br /><br />Things aren't looking very good for life on Earth; traveling in disguise back on their home planet, our team gets a close-up look at many of mankind's worst ills, and even the kids are often at a loss as to how to defend a people who do such terrible things to one another. All of this is well and good, but the conclusion of the story (and thus of the whole series) was a let-down. The big climax is more of a hit-and-run than a well-executed denouement. It's still an impressive final book in a very entertaining series, but I just expected something more. While this book is by far the most important of the series, incorporating issues that some young readers may not have a full grasp on yet, it is far less entertaining and amusing than the first three books. For a youngster ready to make the move to more serious children's fiction, though, My Teacher Flunked the Planet stands as a gateway to a world where learning takes its place alongside pure entertainment.s important issues such as war, poverty, starvation, and other social ills, it comes off as a tad preachy in places. With the fate of the Earth hanging in the balance, it is up to the series' three young heroes to convince a worried Interplanetary Council that the planet should be spared. <br />   <br />Things aren't looking very good for life on Earth; traveling in disguise back on their home planet, our team gets a close-up look at many of mankind's worst ills, and even the kids are often at a loss as to how to defend a people who do such terrible things to one another. All of this is well and good, but the conclusion of the story (and thus of the whole series) was a let-down. The big climax is more of a hit-and-run than a well-executed denouement. It's still an impressive final book in a very entertaining series, but I just expected something more. While this book is by far the most important of the series, incorporating issues that some young readers may not have a full grasp on yet, it is far less entertaining and amusing than the first three books. For a youngster ready to make the move to more serious children's fiction, though, My Teacher Flunked the Planet stands as a gateway to a world where learning takes its place alongside pure entertainment.	2005-09-25
36444:US	53016962	R16B2OWZJXTHOP	1595400079	472433247	The Jewel of Seven Stars	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Stoker's best known post-Dracula novel	Originally published in 1903, some six years after Dracula, Bram Stoker's The Jewel of Seven Stars is a singular work of dark fantasy. It reads as if it were one of the author's earliest writings, espousing a much more awkward style than that which permeates Stoker's most famous novel. The characters are stereotypical of the time, the dialogue is sometimes forced and so Victorian in its manner that it fails to draw the reader fully into the story, and it leaves too many unanswered questions in its wake. Perhaps the most interesting aspect of this, Stoker's most familiar novel after Dracula, is its storyline built around the resurrection of an ancient Egyptian mummy. Few people today realize that Stoker not only truly defined the vampire genre, he helped give rise to the mummy genre as well. By far the most fascinating aspect of this tale is its ending, though, which I will discuss below.<br /><br />The first several chapters of the novel call to my mind the host of whodunit films released in the 1940s and 1950s. Malcolm Ross, a barrister, is called to the home of Margaret Trelawney, a young lady he just recently met and took a fancy to, in the middle of the night. When he arrives at the home, he finds policemen, a doctor, Margaret, and the household staff in a great tizzy over an attack made upon Margaret's father. The man was found on the floor of his room, his left arm slashed in a number of places. The investigation begins, and a constant watch is held over the injured man, who has fallen into a cataleptic state. The next night, under the eyes of Ross, Margaret, and a nurse, a second baffling attack takes place by an unknown assailant. It soon becomes apparent that the person behind the attacks is attempting to gain access to the safe located in the room. Suspicions abound as both the police and the doctor are baffled by the situation. At this point, we begin to learn the history of the Egyptian relics housed in the Trelawney house and hear the story of the ancient Egyptian queen Tera and her apparent plans for reincarnating herself with the help of a beautiful jewel of seven stars, the very item housed in Trelawney's safe. The novel ends with a Great Experiment in which Tera's plans for a rebirth are carried out, the results of which fail to satisfy this reader.<br /><br />Published in 1903, this novel is steeped in Victorian idealism, particularly in its treatment of Margaret and the courtship between her and Malcolm. Modern readers may find this aspect of the novel either romantic or silly. In addition, the respectful and entirely proper conversations between characters, especially in times of suspicion or fear, may seem strikingly quaint to today's readers. The second half of the novel, which tells the story of the ancient mummy and lays the groundwork for the climax of the Great Experiment, is much more interesting than the preceding pages, yet there are elements to the evolving story that fail to make perfect sense.<br /><br />The Jewel of Seven Stars is unique in that it features two different endings, neither of which fully satisfies. The accepted version, which you will find in modern publications, is not the original ending but is instead a rewrite first found in the 1919 edition of the novel. It is anticlimactic at best and seems oddly different from the novel as a whole. There is actually some speculation that the final couple of pages of this ending were not even written by Stoker, who was dead and buried seven years prior to this amended edition's release. The original 1903 ending is a much better if rather shocking conclusion to a story that openly hints of ancient horrors; it is a pity that the original ending has been superseded by a questionable and quite dissatisfying rewrite. In any case, though, The Jewel of Seven Stars is an interesting if flawed novel that shows few signs of the literary magic with which Stoker's masterpiece, Dracula, is infused.ient Egyptian queen Tera and her apparent plans for reincarnating herself with the help of a beautiful jewel of seven stars, the very item housed in Trelawney's safe. The novel ends with a Great Experiment in which Tera's plans for a rebirth are carried out, the results of which fail to satisfy this reader. <br /> <br />Published in 1903, this novel is steeped in Victorian idealism, particularly in its treatment of Margaret and the courtship between her and Malcolm. Modern readers may find this aspect of the novel either romantic or silly. In addition, the respectful and entirely proper conversations between characters, especially in times of suspicion or fear, may seem strikingly quaint to today's readers. The second half of the novel, which tells the story of the ancient mummy and lays the groundwork for the climax of the Great Experiment, is much more interesting than the preceding pages, yet there are elements to the evolving story that fail to make perfect sense.  <br /> <br />The Jewel of Seven Stars is unique in that it features two different endings, neither of which fully satisfies. The accepted version, which you will find in modern publications, is not the original ending but is instead a rewrite first found in the 1919 edition of the novel. It is anticlimactic at best and seems oddly different from the novel as a whole. There is actually some speculation that the final couple of pages of this ending were not even written by Stoker, who was dead and buried seven years prior to this amended edition's release. The original 1903 ending is a much better if rather shocking conclusion to a story that openly hints of ancient horrors; it is a pity that the original ending has been superseded by a questionable and quite dissatisfying rewrite. In any case, though, The Jewel of Seven Stars is an interesting if flawed novel that shows few signs of the literary magic with which Stoker's masterpiece, Dracula, is infused.	2005-09-24
36678:US	53016962	R1N1Y75WJ9BE3B	0451460057	938718061	Mechwarrior: Dark Age #12: Hunters of the Deep (A BattleTech Novel)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Disappointing in terms of both story and Mech action	Many Battletech fans have yet to embrace the new Mechwarrior Dark Age series, and - unfortunately - Randall N. Bills' Hunters of the Deep isn't going to help matters in this regard.  Bills is something of an expert when it comes to Battletech technology and hardware, which makes it all the more disappointing that there is so little actual Mechwarrior action in this novel.  Most Battletech fans want battle action, and plenty of it.  Hunters of the Deep consists predominantly of politics inside Clan Sea Fox, and there's really not much of a tie-in with events taking place throughout the Dark Age universe as a whole.  There is talk of an invasion of the Republic by House Marik, but that invasion is given exceedingly short shrift in these pages.  To put it mildly, I found the politics of this novel somewhat confusing.  Worst of all, there is really no one to admire in this story; indeed, I wasn't even sure who I should be pulling for until I got about halfway through the book.  You basically have two ovKhans of Clan Sea Fox pitted against one another; one, ovKhan Sha Clarke, seeks to break away his Spina Khanate from Clan Sea Fox, a most un-clan-like thing to do, while the other, ovKhan Petr Kalasa, is a weak leader with a history of loss and defeat at the hands of Sha.  Petr's only saving grace is his loyalty to Clan Sea Fox, but I couldn't help but wonder throughout the novel how such a tainted, rash leader who allows his primary aide to endlessly bait him for his past failures has managed to hold on to his position for so long.<br /><br />Clan Sea Fox should be an interesting clan, for its members spend almost all of their time on naval vessels, wandering from one world to another making trade deals by negotiation and/or intimidation.  As space naval men, though, they spend comparatively little time inside 'Mechs practicing or waging battle.  As such, they are not exactly experts at battle maneuvers or strategy - Petr certainly isn't.  His rashness has allowed Sha to best him more than once in the past, and there's no reason to think that things will change when his current negotiations with the merchants of Adhafera are disrupted by Sha's own bid for trade rights with the planet (for such disputes are generally settled with a duel between ovKhans).  Sha is up to something, though, and Petr finds the most unusual of information sources in a female assassin named Snow.  Their clandestine meetings become exceedingly tiresome because they always consist of little more than bizarre flirting sessions, made all the more unbearable by the frequent descriptions of Snow's exceeding ugliness of features and perpetual filthy, smelly state.  Still, Snow, who seems to be linked to the Republic in some way and certainly knows more about Sha's plans than Petr's intelligence agents even suspect, makes it possible for Petr to try and protect Clan Sea Fox (and the Khan) from Sha's traitorous power play.<br /><br />Bliss has the annoying habit of starting at the end and working backward when it comes to describing important events - such as the one-on-one duel between Sha and Petr in the Rituals of Combat surrounding a Trial of Bloodright.  Sometimes, I found little explanation of any kind for certain major happenings.  In the end, I can't help but feel that Hunters of the Deep represents the Mechwarrior Dark Age series at its least appealing, as it seems to specialize in the very things many classic Battletech fans like least about the new series.to best him more than once in the past, and there's no reason to think that things will change when his current negotiations with the merchants of Adhafera are disrupted by Sha's own bid for trade rights with the planet (for such disputes are generally settled with a duel between ovKhans).  Sha is up to something, though, and Petr finds the most unusual of information sources in a female assassin named Snow.  Their clandestine meetings become exceedingly tiresome because they always consist of little more than bizarre flirting sessions, made all the more unbearable by the frequent descriptions of Snow's exceeding ugliness of features and perpetual filthy, smelly state.  Still, Snow, who seems to be linked to the Republic in some way and certainly knows more about Sha's plans than Petr's intelligence agents even suspect, makes it possible for Petr to try and protect Clan Sea Fox (and the Khan) from Sha's traitorous power play. <br /> <br />Bliss has the annoying habit of starting at the end and working backward when it comes to describing important events - such as the one-on-one duel between Sha and Petr in the Rituals of Combat surrounding a Trial of Bloodright.  Sometimes, I found little explanation of any kind for certain major happenings.  In the end, I can't help but feel that Hunters of the Deep represents the Mechwarrior Dark Age series at its least appealing, as it seems to specialize in the very things many classic Battletech fans like least about the new series.	2005-09-24
37741:US	53016962	RBY7WQTKKEDAO	0595321607	374051676	Basic Flying Instruction: A Comprehensive Introduction to Western Philosophy	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A most helpful guided tour of Western philosophy	Philosophers tend to be pretty wordy individuals who, when it comes to lecturing or writing about their ideas, are more than ready to stay all night and stay a little longer.  The sheer wordiness of most philosophy tracts has a lot to do with making philosophy such a formidable subject - that plus the fact that philosophy is, well, hard.  Philosophers ask simple questions and usually come up with pretty convoluted answers - and no two philosophers ever seem to have the same answer.  In point of fact, philosophers are still debating the questions first posed by the pre-Socratics two thousand years ago.  When Charles Gidley Wheeler decided to embark on a formal study of the subject, he searched for a book that would summarize all of the great tenets of philosophy in one handy-dandy volume - but he couldn't find what he was looking for.  Therefore, he committed himself to writing such a book, and the end result of several years' labor is Basic Flying Instruction.  The title seems a little odd for a \\"comprehensive introduction to Western philosophy,\\" but, as he explains in his preface, it is quite apropos for such a book.  Aside from his own past experience as a flight instructor, he recognized the fact that philosophy provides instruction on living one's life - and the pursuit of happiness helps you navigate your way down through the fog of life for the ultimate happy landing.<br /><br />Naturally, you won't become a philosophical guru from reading this book.  You don't just pick up philosophical truths like historical facts or mathematical equations.  Philosophy is a great big greased pig, and you have to get out there in the mud and wrestle it to the ground - and just when you think you've finally got a grip on it, it squirms right out of your hands and takes off again.  If you don't have a genuine interest in philosophy, I think it's safe to say you won't like this book.  It throws a lot of ideas at you, and you really have to concentrate and re-read certain sections in order to progress through it.  I've never formally studied philosophy, as my interest in the subject didn't really manifest itself until the end of my college years.  My only real familiarity is with Plato and Nietzsche - and there's a lot of philosophical ground between those two men.  This book afforded me the opportunity to try and fill that gap.  I can't say I've mastered every theory or idea described here; heck, I don't even understand some of them (although Wheeler does introduce a number of very good examples to illustrate complicated arguments).  By reading this book, though, I've flown over the river of great philosophical ideas, developed a much better appreciation for the length and depth of the philosophical waters, and spotted a number of fascinating little landmarks I want to go back and explore further.<br /><br />Wheeler starts by introducing the big themes of philosophical thought: knowledge, ethics, logic, science, and God.  He then sets out to show you how the ideas and arguments about these important subjects and themes have changed over time.  On the way, you get a short introduction to some of the more prominent thinkers: Descartes, Spinoza, Kant, Schopenhauer, and the like.  The contributions of lesser-known men (such as the exceedingly fascinating Wittgenstein) are also introduced and fleshed out a little bit.  Eventually, Wheeler explains the basics of modern thought systems with such intimidating names as hermeneutics, phenomenology, structuralism, metaphysics, and existentialism.  I must admit it feels good to actually have a handle on the meaning behind these scary names.<br /><br />Different readers will take different things away from this book.  Many of the details probably won't stay with me for very long, but the overall perspective I have gained will.  Philosophical arguments have gotten more complex over time, but modern thinkers really are still debating the very issues of ancient Greece's days.  Philosophy has come a long way over the centuries, yet its true nature remains much the same.<br /><br />I should mention the fact that Wheeler lends a personal touch to his writing.  His own ideas complement his descriptions of different arguments, and he concludes the book by enunciating some of the philosophical opinions he has come to after his years of study.  I happen to disagree with several of those opinions, but that's perfectly OK.  The important thing is that each person comes up with his/her own conclusions based on personal soul-searching and serious thought.  Philosophy is basically the art (or, if you prefer, science) of understanding yourself and the world around you.  You can't get to where you want to be overnight - especially if you don't have a guide.  Wheeler can show you the different paths others have taken, but it is up to you to choose your own paths to go back and explore further.a long way over the centuries, yet its true nature remains much the same.   <br /> <br />I should mention the fact that Wheeler lends a personal touch to his writing.  His own ideas complement his descriptions of different arguments, and he concludes the book by enunciating some of the philosophical opinions he has come to after his years of study.  I happen to disagree with several of those opinions, but that's perfectly OK.  The important thing is that each person comes up with his/her own conclusions based on personal soul-searching and serious thought.  Philosophy is basically the art (or, if you prefer, science) of understanding yourself and the world around you.  You can't get to where you want to be overnight - especially if you don't have a guide.  Wheeler can show you the different paths others have taken, but it is up to you to choose your own paths to go back and explore further.	2005-09-23
39012:US	53016962	R2EBZ2USHK5QVL	1593082649	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Absolutely delightful	I approached this book somewhat warily, knowing that Northanger Abbey was to some degree a satirical take on the immense popularity of Gothic romances such as Ann Radcliffe's The Mysteries of Udolpho, a book I dearly love. Happily, Austen's means of poking fun at Gothic horror literature are far from mean-spirited and, as a matter of fact, can be delightfully humorous indeed. Her heroine, Catherine Morland, is by no means the type of heroine to be found in the giant tomes of Radcliffe and her indulgent imitators, as Austen tells her reading audience directly from the very start. \\"Almost attractive\\" on a good day, this unintellectual tomboy has reached her fifteenth year without inspiring a young man's fancy, nor would she be able to delight him with musical skill or even draw his profile in her secret notebooks if she had. Having encountered no strangers who would prove to be a lord or prince in disguise, her heroic ambitions seem stymied at best until fate steps in and grants her a stay of several weeks in the delightful town of Bath. Making her transition from nave girl to equally nave young lady, Catherine almost immediately falls quite in love with young Henry Tilney, while at the same time she becomes intimate friends with an older young lady named Isabella, whose inconstancy as both friend and intended beloved of Catherine's own brother eventually brings her much pain. To her intense delight, however, Catherine is invited by General Tilney, Henry's father, to spend some few weeks in his home, Northanger Abbey. Her joy at spending such private time in the company of her beloved and new best friend Eleanor Tilney is immense, but equally exciting to her is the chance to spend time in a mysterious former abbey of the sort she has read so much about. Such Gothic romances as Udolpho have been the source of her recent heroic training, and she is wildly desirous and fully expectant of discovering hidden passages, dark secrets, frightening circumstances, and possibly even incalcitrant perfidy in the halls of her beloved's family home. Her overactive imagination runs wild in Northanger Abbey, bringing her a fair share of embarrassment, but the very sweet and tender sensibilities that fuel her fire for Gothic mystery make her all the more endearing to me. Catherine is remarkably innocent, and as such she is absolutely delightful in my eyes.<br /><br />Much of the story does fit in with your typical Gothic novel, but the frightening and dismaying things Catherine eventually discovers are of a far from supernatural sort. Ever so gradually, a true monster slowly coalesces from the pages of this remarkable novel. I, like young Catherine, was somewhat overenthusiastic concerning the Gothic qualities of this adventure I feel I shared with her, and the truly despicable thoughts and actions of the book's villain did not immediately strike me as forcefully as they should have; the afterword by Elizabeth Hardwick included in my Signet Classic copy of the book, however, served to make me fully comprehend its import. Greed, selfishness, pride-these are the horrors of Northanger Abbey, and it does deeply hurt a reader of romantic sensitivity to stand idly by, unable to aid and assist a sweet young lady such as Catherine in her time of despair and emotional suffering.<br /><br />Lovers of Gothic horror or literature in general will surely find nothing but delight in the pages of Northanger Abbey. Austen's critique of Gothic literature is quite subdued, and I actually find immense pleasure in the overindulgence the author sometimes employs in her attempts to satirize it. Written by Austen at a tender age (though not published until the year following her death), Northanger Abbey features incredibly human, complex characters full of wit and charm. The hidden motives of seemingly delightful friends is brought to light, teaching young Catherine as well as the reader a painful lesson in real life, yet romance stands at the ready to right the wrongs of self-interest, deception, and greed. I absolutely adore this novel and everything about it.rongs of self-interest, deception, and greed. I absolutely adore this novel and everything about it.	2005-09-22
39662:US	53016962	R177VNADSXCY30	1568656203	544862972	The Johnny Maxwell Trilogy	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Aimed at young adults but sure to delight any Discworld fan	I've never understood why the books in the Johnny Maxwell series are so hard to find.  Not only are they written by one of the world's most engaging, brilliant authors, they are a rare example of truly intelligent books aimed at a young adult audience; they are loads of fun for adults, as well.  It seems a little strange to journey with Terry Pratchett to a place other than the Discworld, but this little jaunt is quite enjoyable - and future echoes of Discworld begin to emerge as the series progresses.  Johnny Maxwell is just a normal twelve-year old kid, or at least he tries to be.  When we first meet him, he is living in Trying Times, sort of left to take care of himself while his parents argue. Trying Times moves to Being Sensible About Things, and by the second book we find Johnny living with his grandfather.  He's still a normal kid - it's just that things seem to happen to him that don't happen to anyone else - aliens inside a computer game surrender to him and name him their Chosen One, dead people start talking to him, and he even manages to stumble into time travel.<br /><br />Like any kid, Johnny enjoys a good computer game every now and then, and his friend Wobbler supplies him with just about any pirated game he could want.  He has destroyed all but the last alien ship in the game Only You Can Save Mankind when a message suddenly appears on the screen: We wish to talk.  Thus begins a journey that takes him inside the game as the Chosen One, the human who will lead the alien ScreeWee race back to safety beyond The Boundary.  The reptilian captain of the ScreeWee is tired of fighting; the human fighters appear out of nowhere, kill and destroy ships in her fleet, and keep coming back no matter how many times they are killed.  She has seen what happened to the Space Invaders and would rather surrender than die fighting.<br /><br />As always with Pratchett, the characters are well-developed and quite remarkable.  I really liked Wobbler, the future hacker who designed his own game called Journey to Alpha Centauri to be played in real time, meaning all the thousands of years it would take to reach Alpha Centauri is how many years the game would take you to actually finish it.  Beyond the comedy present in this story, there is also a message.  The backdrop of the earth-based events of the book is the Persian Gulf War, and the juxtaposition of this war that is real but seems like a game with the computer game that becomes real for Johnny Maxwell conveys a message about violence and one's attitude toward it.  It is not an overbearing theme, but it is there to some degree, helping make this short novel much more than just a juvenile read intended to entertain the reader and nothing more.<br /><br />Johnny often takes a short cut to school through a local cemetery, and it is there that he meets the Alderman, the long dead and buried Alderman.  He and the rest of the good folks residing in the cemetery are quite put out by the fact that the cemetery has been sold by the city to a corporation planning on putting office buildings there.  Since Johnny is the only human who can see them (and why Johnny can see them is rather a mystery, although the Alderman thinks it is because he is too lazy not to see them), the dead look to him to save their eternal resting place.  Stopping a big corporation from doing something the city has granted it the legal right to do is no easy task, especially for a twelve-year-old boy and his friends, but Johnny is wonderfully resourceful.<br /><br />Johnny and the Dead rings quite distinctly at times of the type of humor showcased by the author in his Discworld novels.  The dead people add a lot of life to this book, oddly enough.  Their vibrant personalities more often than not clash in a number of very funny ways as they all try to cope with modern life - or the lack of it.<br /><br />In my opinion, Johnny and the Bomb is the best book in the series.  It bears a strong resemblance to Pratchett's Discworld ideas and characterizations, containing much more social commentary, satire, and sidesplitting comedy than the first two books.  This time around, Johnny becomes a time traveler - quite unexpectedly.  The whole gang (Johnny, Wobbler, Bigmac, Yo-less, and Kirsty) goes back in time to 1941, the very day preceding an accidental bombing of the town.  They try to be careful not to mess the future up, but Bigmac and Wobbler seem to have a natural attraction to trouble.  Finding their way back home to the future is a difficult task; arriving back home without Wobbler and having to figure out a way to go back and retrieve him is even harder, especially since it involves convincing the 1941 authorities that the town is going to be bombed at a specific time.<br /><br />The characters of Johnny's remarkable friends are fleshed out in this novel to a much greater extent than they were in the previous two novels.  Time displacement forces the kids to deal with issues of racism and sexism, for example.  Serious issues aside, though, the book is just hilarious; the proffered hypotheses about the different legs of the Trousers of Time is vintage Pratchett material.  This adventure really is the type of thing you might expect to happen on the Discworld, and I daresay any Pratchett fan of any age should enjoy this book (and the whole series) immensely.  I find myself wishing for more Johnny Maxwell stories; I feel as if I know these characters now, and they are a fascinating, increasingly funny bunch of guys to hang around with.to Pratchett's Discworld ideas and characterizations, containing much more social commentary, satire, and sidesplitting comedy than the first two books.  This time around, Johnny becomes a time traveler - quite unexpectedly.  The whole gang (Johnny, Wobbler, Bigmac, Yo-less, and Kirsty) goes back in time to 1941, the very day preceding an accidental bombing of the town.  They try to be careful not to mess the future up, but Bigmac and Wobbler seem to have a natural attraction to trouble.  Finding their way back home to the future is a difficult task; arriving back home without Wobbler and having to figure out a way to go back and retrieve him is even harder, especially since it involves convincing the 1941 authorities that the town is going to be bombed at a specific time. <br /> <br />The characters of Johnny's remarkable friends are fleshed out in this novel to a much greater extent than they were in the previous two novels.  Time displacement forces the kids to deal with issues of racism and sexism, for example.  Serious issues aside, though, the book is just hilarious; the proffered hypotheses about the different legs of the Trousers of Time is vintage Pratchett material.  This adventure really is the type of thing you might expect to happen on the Discworld, and I daresay any Pratchett fan of any age should enjoy this book (and the whole series) immensely.  I find myself wishing for more Johnny Maxwell stories; I feel as if I know these characters now, and they are a fascinating, increasingly funny bunch of guys to hang around with.	2005-09-22
40574:US	53016962	RYFHKMZDBB9JK	0552551066	130118063	Johnny and the Dead (The Johnny Maxwell Trilogy)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You don't really live until you're dead	Johnny Maxwell is just a normal twelve-year old kid, or at least he tries to be. Things just seem to happen to him that don't happen to anyone else - aliens inside a computer game surrender to him and name him their Chosen One, for example (as told in the first book of this series). Compared to that adventure, seeing dead people almost seems rather prosaic. The Trying Times Johnny has been living in have advanced past his parents' shouting and Being Sensible About Things to Phase 3, which sees him now living with his grandfather. He often takes a short cut to school through a local cemetery, and it is there that he meets the Alderman, the long dead and buried Alderman. His friends Yo-less, Bigmac, and Wobbler can't see dead people the way Johnny suddenly can, but events soon convince them that Johnny isn't just fooling around with them. Johnny meets all of the dead people in the cemetery, all of whom are quite put out when they learn that their cemetery, a place which the rules of being dead say they cannot leave, has been sold by the city (for only five pence) to a corporation planning on building office buildings there. Since Johnny is the only human who can see them (and why Johnny can see them is rather a mystery, although the Alderman thinks it is because he is too lazy not to see them), the dead look to him to save their eternal resting place. Stopping a big corporation from doing something the city has granted them the legal right to do is no easy task, especially for a twelve-year-old boy and his friends, but Johnny is wonderfully resourceful.<br /><br />The ending of this book didn't have much spark to it, but overall Johnny and the Dead is an even better read than the first Johnny Maxwell novel Only You Can Save Mankind. It also rings quite distinctly at times of the type of humor showcased by the author in his Discworld novels. There is one bit early on that is just hilarious. Wobbler puts the idea in Johnny's head that dead people basically lurch around like the zombie types in Michael Jackson's Thriller video, and this indirectly leads to the Alderman trying to moonwalk in the cemetery. The dead people as a whole put a lot of life into this book, oddly enough. Among the fascinating, entertaining dead folks we meet are an ardent suffragette, an inventor who is quite proficient at manipulating electronic equipment, a brilliant man named Einstein - Solomon Einstein the taxidermist, and a dyed-in-the-wool Marxist who is quite disappointed at the way things have gone in the world since his death. The vibrant personalities of the dead men and women more often than not clash in a number of very funny ways as they all try to cope with modern life or the lack of it.<br /><br />This book does stand up fairly well on its own, but the characterization of Johnny and his friends is not detailed enough for you to really get to know them without having read Only You Can Save Mankind already. This is considered juvenile fiction, but as with everything Terry Pratchett writes, men and women of all ages, providing they have at least a nascent sense of humor, will find much to enjoy and laugh about in these pages.nd like the zombie types in Michael Jackson's Thriller video, and this indirectly leads to the Alderman trying to moonwalk in the cemetery. The dead people as a whole put a lot of life into this book, oddly enough. Among the fascinating, entertaining dead folks we meet are an ardent suffragette, an inventor who is quite proficient at manipulating electronic equipment, a brilliant man named Einstein - Solomon Einstein the taxidermist, and a dyed-in-the-wool Marxist who is quite disappointed at the way things have gone in the world since his death. The vibrant personalities of the dead men and women more often than not clash in a number of very funny ways as they all try to cope with modern life or the lack of it.  <br /> <br />This book does stand up fairly well on its own, but the characterization of Johnny and his friends is not detailed enough for you to really get to know them without having read Only You Can Save Mankind already. This is considered juvenile fiction, but as with everything Terry Pratchett writes, men and women of all ages, providing they have at least a nascent sense of humor, will find much to enjoy and laugh about in these pages.	2005-09-22
42090:US	53016962	R3M80D7TN7IFPQ	0872200108	190603703	Charmides (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	On the nature of temperance as a virtue	In this dialogue, Socrates seeks to discover the true nature of virtue by trying to define a single virtue, namely temperance.  The young philosopher Charmides, whose beauty initially overwhelms Socrates, first says that temperance consists of doing things in an orderly and quiet way; when Socrates points out the inadequacy of such a definition, Charmides says that temperance is a form of modesty. When Socrates proves to him that modesty can be both good and bad, he retreats and refers to someone else's notion that temperance consists of minding one's own business. Critias then jumps into the fray to defend this third position; once he is put on the defensive, he falls back on two alternate definitions--first, that temperance consists of doing good things, and then that temperance is equivalent to knowing oneself. In the end, no satisfactory definition of temperance is arrived at, although one is left with the impression that temperance has much to do with the knowledge of good and evil.<br /><br />Charmides is a rather short dialogue, but I found it to be somewhat hard to follow as it sometimes broke down into wild abstractions.  I think it helps to read this dialogue together with Laches because both attempt to do the same thing - define a single virtue (courage in the case of Laches, temperance in the case of Charmides).  There's a very good single edition of both dialogues translated by Rosamond Kent Sprague featuring a lot of very helpful supporting material.	2005-09-21
44305:US	53016962	R357VUL5MZPZ7I	0152163875	513721577	Please Bury Me in the Library	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Whimsical little poems with exquisite illustrations	I love books, and I also work in a library, so I really had no choice but to see what this book was about when I came across its intriguing title.  There is no murder or mayhem in these pages, of course, because Please Bury Me in the Library is very much a children's book - one aimed mostly at fairly young children.  This is the kind of a book a parent would read to a young child as the future reader delights in the excellent artwork.  Each picture accompanies a poem by J. Patrick Lewis, who throws in an interesting mix of poetic styles: haiku, free verse, rhyming verse, even an acrostic salute to libraries.  I wasn't all that impressed by some of the poems, but this is largely due to the fact that they are aimed primarily at fairly young children (and I haven't been fairly young in a good many years now) - these are simple little verses that come across much better when read aloud.  I'm sure many children would really enjoy them.  It's really the artwork that makes this book special, though.  Kyle M. Stone's artwork is both whimsical and a little dark - not scary, of course, but dark in a \\"Tim Burton was here\\" sort of way.  As an adult, I feel sure that looking at these illustrations is about as close as I can ever come to once again seeing the world through a child's eyes - and that, in my opinion, makes this book a visual treat for young and old alike.	2005-09-20
48540:US	53016962	RJYXXULPVN0PE	0345475682	504368931	Lightning Out of Lebanon: Hezbollah Terrorists on American Soil	Books	5	19	27	N	N	A timely, objective, eye-opening look at Hezbollah	I was particularly interested in this book because I live reasonably close to Charlotte, North Carolina, and I remember being pretty surprised at the news in 2000 that a cigarette-smuggling ring of Hezbollah operatives had been broken up in the Queen City.  My interest waned fairly quickly, though, as I thought of the suspects as criminals rather than terrorists.  Back before 2001, you just didn't think about terrorists planning to take their murderous jihad to American soil - especially North Carolina.  Of course, such perceptions changed after 9/11, and the story of law enforcement's success in crippling this particular terror cell is of paramount interest to me now.  Lightning Out of Lebanon: Hezbollah Terrorists on American Soil is a real eye-opener.  Besides making an unassailable case that Hezbollah terror cells are operating within numerous United States cities right now, it shows just how lax and inefficient our counterterrorism efforts were and still are, how uncooperative \\"friendly\\" governments can be in terrorist matters, and how obscenely easy it has been for terrorists to gain illegal entry into the country and establish themselves here.  The ring leader of the Charlotte Hezbollah cell even secured a government small business loan to aid him in his money-raising efforts.  The book is also inspirational and hopeful, however, as it shows how effective our law enforcement and security agents can be when they work together as equals.<br /><br />This is not just the story of the Charlotte Hezbollah cell; Lightning Out of Lebanon gives an insightful overview of Hezbollah itself - its history, tactics, and deadly potential.  According to the authors, Hezbollah is potentially much more dangerous than Al Qaeda because it is much more efficient, disciplined, and organized.  And Hezbollah is most certainly here in America - in numerous cities from coast to coast.  Today, these terrorists may only be engaging in criminal activities as a means for raising blood money, but tomorrow, at just a word from their bosses in Lebanon and Iran, they could awaken and commit terrible acts of mass murder and destruction in our very heartland.<br /><br />It is infuriating to see just how easily a Hezbollah cell such as the one in Charlotte could prosper.  These terrorists' secret has always been to fly under the radar and to engage in criminal activities that, in and of themselves, don't seem to be all that substantial.  Smuggling cigarettes from North Carolina to tax-happy Michigan was unlikely to generate much more than a slap on the wrist (or to generate too much concern from potential Tarheel juries).  Immigration Services were so prostrate and overloaded that the bad guys didn't even have to make fake IDs and personal documents - they could easily get them from agencies such as the DMV and Social Security themselves.  The Charlotte ring leaders had multiple IDs provided by these official agencies.  Multiple fake marriages were rarely discovered, providing terrorists with an easy way to remain in the country.  The whole situation would be funny if it weren't so disastrously pathetic.  In many ways, the Charlotte cell ran its operations from a Domino's Pizza establishment and even got a number of unscrupulous American acquaintances to take part in their nefarious crimes - Mohammed Hammoud's American wife, for example, came to serve as the true mastermind behind the group's highly profitable criminal schemes.<br /><br />Fortunately, a number of dedicated law enforcement officials and prosecutors weeded out the true nature of Hammoud's organization - but it wasn't easy.  It is always shocking to go back and see just how hamstrung our nation's defenders were before 9/11 thanks to the \\"China Wall\\" erected between criminal investigators and intelligence agents.  You can't win many games when your own teammates aren't allowed to speak to one another.  It took a man of daring and vision to get around that wall and get something done.  FBI man Bob Clifford was such a man, and his strategy of deliberate aggressiveness proved very successful in the Charlotte case (despite Janet Reno's great concern over violating the civil rights of the terrorists).  Clifford and his team even managed to secure the cooperation of Canadian law enforcement in developing evidence for the trial in question.  Winning foreign cooperation was and is a rare achievement.  This book recounts a number of cases where supposedly friendly governments such as France and Italy not only protected wanted terrorists from American justice, they actually let them escape to kill another day.  One of the Charlotte Hezbollah cell members is sitting fat and happy in Vancouver because the Canadians won't extradite him.  With friends like these, who needs enemies?<br /><br />This book really is a history of both Hezbollah terrorism and recent counterterrorism efforts of the United States.  Both the culture of the Lebanese hotbed of Hezbollah recruiting and the culture of US intelligence/law enforcement agencies are penetrated with great insight and objectivity by the authors.  For every murderous terrorist in this story, there is a determined American hero who overcame great obstacles (most of which were put in place by the U.S. government itself) to truly save the day and make America a little bit safer.<br /><br />This book is a less than gentle reminder of the incredible threat terrorists still pose to Western democracies, especially the United States.  Hezbollah, the authors pretty much prove, may well be a bigger threat than Al Qaeda - and that's a pretty disturbing revelation.  Having revealed all of the weaknesses of past counterterrorism efforts, the authors conclude by putting forth a number of recommendations on how to better reform a system that is still broken.  There could not be a more timely and perhaps more important read than Lightning Out of Lebanon - especially for those who unwittingly aid the terrorists by putting the civil liberties of fanatical Islamist killers over the security concerns of this country in a time of war.  This book provides ample evidence that we must do more, not less, to protect ourselves from the bloodthirsty killers of Hezbollah, Al Qaeda, and other terrorist groups.FBI man Bob Clifford was such a man, and his strategy of deliberate aggressiveness proved very successful in the Charlotte case (despite Janet Reno's great concern over violating the civil rights of the terrorists).  Clifford and his team even managed to secure the cooperation of Canadian law enforcement in developing evidence for the trial in question.  Winning foreign cooperation was and is a rare achievement.  This book recounts a number of cases where supposedly friendly governments such as France and Italy not only protected wanted terrorists from American justice, they actually let them escape to kill another day.  One of the Charlotte Hezbollah cell members is sitting fat and happy in Vancouver because the Canadians won't extradite him.  With friends like these, who needs enemies?   <br /> <br />This book really is a history of both Hezbollah terrorism and recent counterterrorism efforts of the United States.  Both the culture of the Lebanese hotbed of Hezbollah recruiting and the culture of US intelligence/law enforcement agencies are penetrated with great insight and objectivity by the authors.  For every murderous terrorist in this story, there is a determined American hero who overcame great obstacles (most of which were put in place by the U.S. government itself) to truly save the day and make America a little bit safer.   <br /> <br />This book is a less than gentle reminder of the incredible threat terrorists still pose to Western democracies, especially the United States.  Hezbollah, the authors pretty much prove, may well be a bigger threat than Al Qaeda - and that's a pretty disturbing revelation.  Having revealed all of the weaknesses of past counterterrorism efforts, the authors conclude by putting forth a number of recommendations on how to better reform a system that is still broken.  There could not be a more timely and perhaps more important read than Lightning Out of Lebanon - especially for those who unwittingly aid the terrorists by putting the civil liberties of fanatical Islamist killers over the security concerns of this country in a time of war.  This book provides ample evidence that we must do more, not less, to protect ourselves from the bloodthirsty killers of Hezbollah, Al Qaeda, and other terrorist groups.	2005-09-18
49701:US	53016962	R1X5HN52HGXDYJ	0441012752	975603973	Anonymous Rex/Casual Rex Omnibus	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brilliantly clever, strikingly imaginative - two claws up all the way	Forget everything you know about dinosaurs.  Not only did they not become extinct 65 million years ago, they currently make up about 5% of the \\"human\\" population.  Rather than stomp all of us humans out of existence eons ago, they decided just to live in our world secretly (they have much smaller bodies than their ancestors), donning complex human guises involving lots of straps, buckles, and epoxy.  You'd be amazed at just how many celebrities and power brokers are actually dinosaurs in disguise.  All they want is to keep their secret, find the time and opportunity to really be themselves every now and again, and maybe get a good buzz on with basil or certain other herbs if and when the urge strikes.  They live by two golden rules: never let a human learn their secret (and kill any who do) and never, ever, ever engage in interspecies relations with a human.<br /><br />With Anonymous Rex, author Eric Garcia first brought this strange new world to life, garnering critical acclaim and a cult following for his efforts.  He is a brilliantly wicked author, packing loads of comedy into noir-ish tales of dinosaur private investigator Vincent Rubio.  Poor Vince has had a rough nine months.  It all started when his partner Ernie was run over by a taxi in New York.  Vince went a little nuts after that, broke a lot of rules and at least one nose during his investigation of the accident, and got himself declared dinosaur non grata in both New York and back home in Los Angeles.  He is in an emotional and financial tailspin, nursing a major basil addiction and basically trying to find a reason to keep on keeping on.  With little left to his name, he finally gets a case thrown his way, an insurance job investigating a fire at a local dino club.  As luck would have it, the club owner had important contacts in New York, and before you can say Velociraptor, Vince is back in the Big Apple conducting interviews for a case that may well have some relation to his partner's death.<br /><br />This thing gets pretty involved, as a simple case of possible arson soon leads Vince into a conspiracy of dinosaur-sized proportions involving human-dinosaur genetic experimentation.  Slowly but surely, Vince starts assembling the pieces of the puzzle, but progress doesn't come without setbacks - a couple of attempts on his life, some inconvenient deaths of informants and friends, a serious lack of funds, and even a dangerous relationship with a singularly appealing human female.  Danger is Vince's middle name, however, and in time he breaks out of his emotional funk, manages to stay away from basil long enough to clear his head, and relentlessly pursues a solution to a surprisingly complex mystery.<br /><br />The book is written in first person, in the classic style of ye olde detective mysteries from the golden age of Dashiell Hammett and Sam Spade.  And make no mistake - aside from the unique dinosaur angle and the constant showcase of sarcastic wit and genuinely funny writing, Garcia knows how to construct and tell a good mystery.  Anonymous Rex is a thoroughly engaging read from start to finish.  There's an edge to this story, a fair share of surprises along the way, and all sorts of social commentary you can ponder or simply ignore.  If you've been yearning for something different, Vincent Rubio, P.I., is on the case, and the game's afoot.<br /><br />Casual Rex is Garcia's second \\"Rex\\" novel, but it is actually a prequel to Anonymous Rex.  Victor and his partner Ernie are your basic PI's - snooping on roving spouses, hunting down petty thieves, etc.  Their humdrum state of existence changes when Ernie's ex-wife asks them to find her brother and bring him home (forcibly, if necessary).  It seems the poor kid has gotten all caught up in a dino cult called the Progressives.  Most dinosaurs have accepted the fact that they have to go to great pains to pass themselves off as humans, but some yearn for the old lifestyle of complete dino freedom.  Vic and Ernie infiltrate the cult and get their man - but that's just the beginning of the story.  There's something really sinister going on here, and our detective heroes are determined to find out just what the Progressives are up to.  Their mission eventually leads them to a back-to-nature retreat in the islands of Hawaii, where they learn even more than they bargained for about the cult.<br /><br />The fact that Casual Rex wasn't quite as funny as I expected it to be is certainly not a bad thing.  It does, after all, deal with such serious issues as drug abuse (ah, sweet basil), cults, murder, and your proverbial world domination and genocide - as well as friendship, honor, and humanity (or whatever the dinosaur equivalent of that would be).  Garcia's writing style remains delightfully quirky, the absurdist setting is effectively presented (with explanations of dinosaur culture over the millennia enriched by rich and numerous off-the-cuff remarks), the action is well-paced, the tragedies that take place over the course of the novel are surprisingly poignant, and a rising level of suspense (not to mention curiosity) definitely draws the reader in and carries him/her all the way to the end.<br /><br />This Anonymous Rex/Casual Rex omnibus places Casual Rex in front of Anonymous Rex, which is fine if you want to read the prequel first.  If you'd rather read the two books in the order of publication, though, be sure to start with Anonymous Rex.and Ernie infiltrate the cult and get their man - but that's just the beginning of the story.  There's something really sinister going on here, and our detective heroes are determined to find out just what the Progressives are up to.  Their mission eventually leads them to a back-to-nature retreat in the islands of Hawaii, where they learn even more than they bargained for about the cult.   <br /> <br />The fact that Casual Rex wasn't quite as funny as I expected it to be is certainly not a bad thing.  It does, after all, deal with such serious issues as drug abuse (ah, sweet basil), cults, murder, and your proverbial world domination and genocide - as well as friendship, honor, and humanity (or whatever the dinosaur equivalent of that would be).  Garcia's writing style remains delightfully quirky, the absurdist setting is effectively presented (with explanations of dinosaur culture over the millennia enriched by rich and numerous off-the-cuff remarks), the action is well-paced, the tragedies that take place over the course of the novel are surprisingly poignant, and a rising level of suspense (not to mention curiosity) definitely draws the reader in and carries him/her all the way to the end.   <br /> <br />This Anonymous Rex/Casual Rex omnibus places Casual Rex in front of Anonymous Rex, which is fine if you want to read the prequel first.  If you'd rather read the two books in the order of publication, though, be sure to start with Anonymous Rex.	2005-09-17
53650:US	53016962	R2R81751RWAG2R	848450851X	913621245	Rabia/Rage (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Psychologically fascinating novel by a young Stephen King	After the Columbine tragedy, Stephen King basically had all copies of Rage pulled from the shelves - understandable yet unfortunate, as King had always been a stalwart opponent of censorship.  The novel, though, features a high school student who wigs out, shoots two teachers, and holds his class hostage for several hours.  On the face of it, that's what the novel is about, but it's really much more involved than that.  The real heart of the story is the way the students react to their captor during their ordeal; they go way beyond merely sympathizing with him.  It's a little fanciful and simplistic but highly fascinating, and it shows amazing talent from such a young author.  King began the novel, which he originally called Getting It On, when he was a senior in high school (1966), and he brought it back out and finished it five years later.  In 1977, it became the first novel King released under the name Richard Bachman.<br /><br />The story isn't polished or fleshed out completely, but Rage bears many of the hallmarks that would make Stephen King the world's best-selling author.  For me, the most extraordinary thing about this short novel is the fact that I can almost hear Stephen King reading the words aloud in a number of places - I've never experienced this feeling in any other King novel.  There is a very close connection between writer, reader, and characters in this dark story of teen angst taken to an extreme.  King explores some very adult aspects of Charlie's psychological development, and he doesn't stop there - he takes us right inside the minds of several other young characters before he's through.  It's like Lord of the Flies, only different and more emotionally slippery.<br /><br />Charlie Decker has some problems; not long ago, he cold-conked his chemistry teacher in the head with a metal pipe.  Now back in school and closely monitored by the principal, he snaps at the perceived injustice of it all, calmly shoots his teacher and a second teacher who pokes his head in the room, and basically takes his classmates hostage.  In his parlance, he is most definitely getting it on.  While his classmates are shocked and frightened at first, they settle in rather quickly to the situation, begin to commiserate with their captor, and eventually sort of take over the whole show as an us against them mentality blossoms in that secluded room.  Secrets are revealed, accusations are made and answered, and Charlie is not the only one to open up and talk about his inner demons.  Negotiators are less than effective in talking Charlie out of the situation, and all but one of the kids really has no use for their self-serving efforts.  That one boy, Ted Jones, is a problem - he's got ideas about being a hero, and he keeps wearing a peculiar grin that proves just how much Mr. Cool is hiding beneath his mask of popularity.  The rest of the kids actually seem to want to stay there with Charlie; they're learning a whole lot about themselves and their classmates.  Charlie initially wonders if they're hoping to see him take out another adult, and later he wonders if this is a case of judge and jury or jury and defendant.  They all get it own before Charlie's little party is brought to an end, and the psychological and sociological aspects of the entire event are just starkly fascinating.<br /><br />It's really hard to describe this book.  I don't think it is the least bit dangerous, however; after all, books don't kill people.  Some might say that the other kids come to look upon Charlie as a hero, and that's why the book's dangerous, but I would disagree.  I don't think Charlie becomes a hero in anyone's eyes; the other kids come to understand him, to commiserate with him, even to appreciate the extreme opportunity he has given them to open up emotionally in that little bubble of unreality, but they certainly don't worship him or follow in his footsteps.  And it's not like Charlie ends up getting a ticker tape parade for his actions - far from it.  King really breaks down the emotional walls of these characters, mining some of the real issues that teenagers have to deal with in their lives.  To me, this novel is raw but instructive, surreal yet amazingly open and honest, and well worth reading.ions - far from it.  King really breaks down the emotional walls of these characters, mining some of the real issues that teenagers have to deal with in their lives.  To me, this novel is raw but instructive, surreal yet amazingly open and honest, and well worth reading.	2005-09-15
55606:US	53016962	R3DPMX8FW90D8P	1890357154	169594310	Emperor of the Galatians: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderfully profound, intriguing novel	Emperor of the Galatians is a disarmingly profound novel that operates on a number of levels. Even after a second reading, I'm not sure I have a perfect understanding of the novel as a whole, with its allegorical treatment of good and evil, but it really is an intriguing novel. The setting is most unusual, in that it takes place in a modern-day Roman Empire, a sort of netherworld with aspects of the long ago existing side-by-side with modern technology. The sociopolitical situation of Rome and its second-class provinces adds complexity to an enlightening story possessed of an almost mythic quality.<br /><br />The novel largely revolves around four individuals. Jose Alkorta, Minister of Education, comes into possession of some seemingly Galatian papers that indicate three young men will come to Rome and cure the emperor Bonifacio of his recent sickness. Although Alkorta is secretly a Galatian by birth, he is unable to translate any of the papers apart from the accompanying letter found with them. Still, he does his part to pave the way for these young men to make their way to the city, even soliciting the erstwhile help of the stern Security Minister, Vicena. The medium for the strangers' arrival is the new university in Rome, a school that will be Alkorta's primary legacy. The young men do not know each other, although they cross paths in meaningful ways on several occasions. Danilo is a soldier charged with securing an innocent Rinaldo's release from a notorious prison, and both come to enroll in the new medical school in Rome. These two young men are pawns of a dizzying array of forces, including Alkorta, Vicena, and seemingly those of Fate and prophecy themselves. For his part, the suspicious Vicena is determined to find out what these young men are up to. In time, both Danilo and Rinaldo find useful jobs for themselves and begin to converge on a common mission unbeknownst to either of them. Rinaldo finds himself led to a storehouse of information and a scientifically intriguing substance that may well hold the key to Rome's future stability - and Danilo comes to hold the key to Rinaldo's future.<br /><br />There is an extraordinarily human quality to these characters and their situations. Several of them hide their true provincial origins in a metropolitan Rome that welcomes but does not really embrace foreigners. Rinaldo faces a number of human struggles - having lost everything, really, when he was subjected to wrongful imprisonment, his Roman sojourn subjects him to emotional issues such as love and loss, fear, duty, and just a general desire for happiness and fulfillment. Danilo was himself rescued from a potentially dangerous situation in his military unit before embarking on a civilian student life in the big city, and he initially struggles to find a suitable place for himself in this new life he has suddenly been granted. Alkorta, however, is the most intriguing character of all, a leader possessed of a mysterious past and unsuspected secrets that slowly emerge as the story progresses.<br /><br />Emperor of the Galatians was originally published in Germany in 1993 and is the first of author Mihajlo Kazic's three novels to be published in English. This isn't like reading a novel from an American-born writer, particularly in terms of the author's writing style. Characters sometimes make declarations rather than merely speak, the flow of the writing seems a little bit uneven on occasion, and the whole cultural milieu of the story does have a foreign feel to it. I don't mean to say these are weaknesses, however, as they actually piqued my interest even more and made the read a much more distinctive one than it might have been otherwise. Emperor of the Galatians is truly a fascinating book - partly because it is \\"different\\" (in a good way) and reflects a cultural outlook that differs somewhat from my own. Kazic's reverence for words and their power is made manifest loudly and clearly, as he possesses the ability to communicate a great deal in only a few words. Emperor of the Galatians isn't just a novel; it's a reading experience that will stay with me for some time.y to communicate a great deal in only a few words. Emperor of the Galatians isn't just a novel; it's a reading experience that will stay with me for some time.	2005-09-14
61118:US	53016962	R28TFO6AV9OHG8	0374529531	9117281	The Lottery and Other Stories (FSG Classics)	Books	5	109	115	N	N	Illuminating snapshots of life	Many people are familiar with the story \\"The Lottery,\\" but it is just one of many incredible vignettes of life filling this collection.  It is hard to understand today why \\"The Lottery\\" originally provoked such a strong reaction, yet it still packs a punch for first-time readers.  While it does have aspects of horror, the remaining stories are basically literary.  \\"Flower Garden\\" and \\"After You, My Dear Alphonse\\" deal with racism and would seem to be pretty bold statements for the time period (the book was published in 1948); the latter story seems particularly groundbreaking because of the unusual perspective it provides.  \\"Charles\\" is a humorous yet illuminating look at the behavior of children, while \\"Afternoon in Linen\\" is an important statement on why children sometimes behave as they do.  Jackson is at her best when describing the disenchanted adult. The helplessness of women is an important theme in many stories; many of the women described here feel helpless and subservient to their husbands, their neighbors, and their community.  \\"Elizabeth\\" is a fairly long study of how one woman's wishes and dreams remain unfulfilled in later life.  The housewife in \\"Got a Letter From Jimmy\\" is thoroughly exasperated by her husband's feelings, and since she cannot speak her mind to him, she is forced to fantasize about killing him.  In \\"The Villager\\" a woman spontaneously chooses to become someone else entirely for a few minutes, and most of Jackson's heroines spend much time contemplating what could have been.  In \\"Of Course,\\" the fact that a new family has a few unorthodox views builds an unbreachable wall between brand-new neighbors.  The women in these stories are always wondering what other people think about them and worrying about what others will say about them.  Even when a group of women try to do something good to help the less fortunate, it backfires on them in \\"Come Dance With Me in Ireland.\\"  When a female character vacations with her husband in New York in \\"Pillar of Salt,\\" she soon becomes \\"lost,\\" afraid, and desperate to return home.  \\"Colloquy\\" is the shortest story in the collection, but its protagonist speaks for most of Jackson's female characters when she asks whether she alone or the whole world has gone insane.<br /><br />My favorite story here is \\"The Daemon Lover.\\"  Herein, Jackson offers one of the most poignant, touching looks at loneliness, desperation, and fragility I have ever read.  In the story, we spend a day with the protagonist as she prepares for her wedding, having become engaged just the night before to a James Harris.  It is a depressing yet beautiful story, and I actually rate it higher than \\"The Lottery.\\"  The character of James Harris actually flitters throughout several of these stories, a phantom of sorts haunting several of Jackson's more memorable female characters.<br /><br />Jackson deals with very serious subjects, and the illumination provided by her unusual perspectives on life is vivid and poignant.  When addressing racism, she shows how even an individual with the best of intentions and good will can still represent an unfortunate racist attitude.  In speaking to morality and social values, she shows how hard it can be for an individual to go against tradition and the community to do what is right.  She offers powerful insights on child (and adult) psychology.  Even the couple of stories I did not really \\"get\\" offered insight into the living of life.  Readers should not expect a book of horror stories when they pick up this book.  The stories can be maudlin and even depressing, but they are philosophical, psychological, and sociological rather than creepy or spooky.\\"Pillar of Salt,\\" she soon becomes \\"lost,\\" afraid, and desperate to return home.  \\"Colloquy\\" is the shortest story in the collection, but its protagonist speaks for most of Jackson's female characters when she asks whether she alone or the whole world has gone insane.     My favorite story here is \\"The Daemon Lover.\\"  Herein, Jackson offers one of the most poignant, touching looks at loneliness, desperation, and fragility I have ever read.  In the story, we spend a day with the protagonist as she prepares for her wedding, having become engaged just the night before to a James Harris.  It is a depressing yet beautiful story, and I actually rate it higher than \\"The Lottery.\\"  The character of James Harris actually flitters throughout several of these stories, a phantom of sorts haunting several of Jackson's more memorable female characters.      Jackson deals with very serious subjects, and the illumination provided by her unusual perspectives on life is vivid and poignant.  When addressing racism, she shows how even an individual with the best of intentions and good will can still represent an unfortunate racist attitude.  In speaking to morality and social values, she shows how hard it can be for an individual to go against tradition and the community to do what is right.  She offers powerful insights on child (and adult) psychology.  Even the couple of stories I did not really \\"get\\" offered insight into the living of life.  Readers should not expect a book of horror stories when they pick up this book.  The stories can be maudlin and even depressing, but they are philosophical, psychological, and sociological rather than creepy or spooky.	2005-09-11
68100:US	53016962	RNSYTO4I6FGHJ	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	5	75	79	N	Y	A dark, unrelenting, unforgiving, brutal masterpiece	Cujo is special.  This was my introduction to Stephen King; oh, I'd read that story of his about toy soldiers (in seventh grade English class, no less), but this was my first real Stephen King experience.  It was also my first truly adult novel; there's some pretty racy stuff in here, especially when you're an innocent twelve-year-old kid.  Steve Kemp, Donna Trenton's jilted lover, is a cretin.  That's part of the reason why Cujo has always been my least favorite Stephen King novel - until now, that is.  Having finally reread this book, I am quite bowled over by the experience.  This is King at his most visceral, his most unrelenting, his most vicious.  Dark doesn't begin to describe this novel.  The ending was and is controversial (so controversial that it was changed - quite cowardly - in the film adaptation).  Speaking of the film, it's important not to judge this novel by that adaptation - in the movie, young Tad is almost impossible to like because Danny Pintauro was just such an annoying child actor, and Cujo himself is little more than a monster because we don't get inside his increasingly disturbed head the way we do in the novel.  The real Cujo is a good dog.<br /><br />King has said he does not remember writing very much of this novel, that it was written in an almost perpetual drunken haze.  It's ironic because Cujo is an amazingly sober read.  Maybe the booze explains the brutality of the story, but I think not - like any great writer, King lets the story tell itself.  What happens at the end of this novel just happens; King doesn't make it happen.  That ending - actually, the whole book - opens up all kinds of questions about Fate and justice.  I have a hard time liking Donna Trenton, and a part of me thinks there is a certain amount of justice in her fate (although the punishment grossly outweighs the crime in this case).  How do you explain what happens here, though - all these coincidences that seal our characters' - especially the child's - fates?  Why and how does such a horrible tragedy happen?  As the reader, you ask these questions, and they echo the questions we sometimes ask in real life.  King taps directly in to your worst nightmares with this seemingly simple story.<br /><br />The basic foundation of this novel is a pretty simple one: man vs. nature.  In one corner, you have a mother fighting for the life of her son as well as herself; in the other corner, you have Cujo, a two hundred pound St. Bernard, a gentle, loving dog who has gone rabid - very rabid, insanely murderous rabid.  It's essential to realize that there are no villains here, though, only victims.  Curiosity killed the cat, but it gave Cujo rabies, and we experience his own canine mental breakdown as the disease lays waste to his central nervous system.  Cujo would never dream of hurting anyone; the rabies eventually kills the real Cujo, though, and turns his huge canine body into a horrible killing machine, a very fiend from hell itself, the personification of the terrible monster in the closet that frightens young Tad so much every night in his room.  King conjures this malevolent connection in a wonderfully tangible way, going even farther to tie \\"the monster\\" in to the murderous deeds of Frank Dodd - King directly cites events chronicled in The Dead Zone, already building the aura of the doom-shrouded town of Castle Rock.<br /><br />So it's a simple story - yet it's not simple at all.  You have marital discord between the Trentons, the result of a stupid affair between Donna and the aforementioned cretin Steve Kemp.  Vic is trying to save his business at the same time that he is hammered with the news of his wife's infidelity.  You have Tad's fear of the monster in his closet and his trust in his father to keep him safe.  You have the wife of country mechanic Joe Camber and her fears that her son will turn out just like his father.  You basically have all manner of compelling subplots going on at the same time, somehow coming together to conjure an unimaginably horrible series of events.  In other words, this is real life taken to extremes - and there are monsters in real life, oh yes.ming together to conjure an unimaginably horrible series of events.  In other words, this is real life taken to extremes - and there are monsters in real life, oh yes.	2005-09-07
75528:US	53016962	RELWS2YI6C8N7	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not King's best, but among his most emotionally compelling	Firestarter gets comparatively little attention among Stephen King novels.  It doesn't make many readers' list of favorites, it's sometimes falsely dubbed a recycled version of Carrie, and the film adaptation of it didn't do the novel any favors.  I first read Firestarter some twenty years ago, and frankly I remembered it in somewhat fuzzy terms.  Having reread it again now, a quarter century after its original publication, that ambivalence I felt has been turned into - well, something.  I don't think anyone would consider this King's best novel.  It is very much a localized story, built mainly upon emotion; certain questions can be asked about the story's progression, and we never really come to \\"know\\" the bad guys as intimately as we do in so many other King classics - Rainbird is for me a problematic character in this story; like the young protagonist, I just never feel as if I can truly read him.  There is no real adrenaline rush for me in these pages, either, and that is probably the main reason I had such hazy memories of the story after all these years.  Having said all that, though, I have to point to some real strengths of Firestarter.  It is one of King's most poignant novels, sad and depressing rather than horrifying.  The relationship between Andy McGee and his daughter Charlie is by turns heartwarming and heart wrenching; seeing this seven-year-old girl suffer so much can be hard at times, and those moments when Charley screams for her Daddy, her only source of comfort and safety in her unimaginably horrible world, definitely affect you as the reader.  It makes Firestarter a somewhat sobering read, one you may want to put out of your mind rather than revisit - that is this novel's power.<br /><br />Charlie McGee is just a cute little girl, yet she is denied anything resembling a normal life.  Her parents participated in a psychological study back in college that earned them two hundred dollars and strange new powers.  They had unwittingly served as guinea pigs for an experimental-drug called Lot Six - courtesy of The Shop, a covert part of the federal government.  Andy has the ability to \\"push\\" people into thinking and doing what he wants, while his wife Vicki is able to move things with her mind.  Their abilities are comparatively weak, but such is not the case with their daughter: Charlie can start fires with her mind.  Charlie's unprecedented powers make her a subject of great interest for The Shop - and eventually they come for her.  Andy is forced to flee with his daughter after his wife is killed and Charlie herself temporarily abducted by government agents, but his limited power can only take them so far because the \\"push\\" exerts a painful physical toll on him.  Charlie has to grow up in a hurry, as she seeks to understand who and what she is and to distinguish right from wrong in a crazy world that blurs the lines of good and evil.  Her parents taught her that she should never use her power, yet she is put into positions in which that frightening ability borne from something inside her is the only thing that can keep her and her father safe and free.  She is scared of the power, partly because she has trouble controlling it, but even more because a part of her enjoys using it.  King's development of Charlie's feelings in this regard is masterfully done.<br /><br />The novel makes little secret that the eventual ending will be a tragic one.  The climactic events, however, don't take place on an elaborate scope; in fact, the majority of the action goes down in only two distinct locations.  The fulcrum exists in the form of a grotesque human being named Rainbird.  He's really the only interesting antagonist in the entire story, but I just don't know that his actions are justified by the things we learn about him - principally, his fascination with death.  In my mind, he's one of King's weakest villains.<br /><br />This is starting to sound like a negative review, but in actuality I regard Firestarter as a fascinating novel that shows how King is equally proficient at evoking love as he is terror.  There's a strong sociological component to the novel.  After all, the villain here is not a werewolf, ghost, or monster of any kind; it is nothing less than the government of the United States itself.  In the 1970s, we began to learn about some of the heinous experiments our own government had perpetrated upon us (among the least of which was the injection of psychotic drugs to unknown participants) and the equally awful manner in which they covered such things up.  If anything makes Firestarter scary, it is the fact that the novel was inspired by actual government-sponsored crimes of the most despicable kind.  I'm sure the impact of Firestarter resonated much more deeply in 1980 than it does now, but this is only because we now know how untrustworthy the government can be.  Still, Charlie's story is a most compelling one, and it shows us another side of Stephen King during the most productive phase of his unparalleled career.a fascinating novel that shows how King is equally proficient at evoking love as he is terror.  There's a strong sociological component to the novel.  After all, the villain here is not a werewolf, ghost, or monster of any kind; it is nothing less than the government of the United States itself.  In the 1970s, we began to learn about some of the heinous experiments our own government had perpetrated upon us (among the least of which was the injection of psychotic drugs to unknown participants) and the equally awful manner in which they covered such things up.  If anything makes Firestarter scary, it is the fact that the novel was inspired by actual government-sponsored crimes of the most despicable kind.  I'm sure the impact of Firestarter resonated much more deeply in 1980 than it does now, but this is only because we now know how untrustworthy the government can be.  Still, Charlie's story is a most compelling one, and it shows us another side of Stephen King during the most productive phase of his unparalleled career.	2005-09-04
78091:US	53016962	R24O7QQS793OT2	0399151869	808702484	Edenborn	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Masterful sci-fi with poignant insight into the human condition	To those with an interest in astronomy matters, Nick Sagan has been famous since he was a child; it is his voice, after all, that any alien civilization coming across the Voyager spacecraft in the depths of interstellar space will hear bidding them \\"Hello from the children of planet Earth.\\"  In 2003, Nick emerged fully from the shadow of his illustrious father Carl Sagan (the absolute hero of my youth) with the publication of his first novel.  Idlewild consisted of a fascinating story surrounding a group of gifted young people at a very special school.  Their education took place in a virtual reality setting, as did their leisure hours during the school year.  They could visit any time or place, and instead of dorm rooms they had their own elaborate domains built to suit their tastes.  As they neared their eighteenth birthdays, however, the fabric of their virtual reality school began to fray.  One student came up missing, and another one, Halloween, lost his memory as a result of an attempt on his own life.  As things went from bad to worse, Halloween's desperation to escape led to a revelation that would change him and his fellow students forever.  Their entire lives, not just their time at Idlewild, had been lived in virtual reality - in the real world, the Black Ep virus had wiped humanity off the face of the planet, and these special, genetically engineered children represented the last ditch effort of scientists to keep the human race alive.  Upon maturity, when the youngsters would learn the truth, it would be up to them to hopefully find a cure for the virus and begin repopulating the earth.<br /><br />The Idlewild students entered real life prematurely - and reduced in number.  Edenborn takes up their story some eighteen years later.  The survivors divided the earth between them, and two of them (including Halloween) retreated into isolation, leaving only four individuals to pursue the mission they were given.  Even with these four, divisiveness reigned.  In a world population of just over a dozen people, two different families have come into existence.  The European family consists of female clones engineered to be resistant to Black Ep (and thus not entirely human); the African family consists of clones who are essentially human and, as such, dependent on vitamins and drugs to keep the deadly virus at bay.  One family maps a purely technological path to the future, while the other seeks a more human, spiritual path that looks both backwards and forwards at the same time.  Student exchanges take place periodically, which makes for an interesting mesh of worldviews.  The European girls reflect the austere scientific mindset of their \\"mothers,\\" while the Africans follow the Islamic teachings of their \\"father.\\"  Meanwhile, Halloween, the protagonist of Idlewild, is almost completely absent from the scene until the latter stages of the book.<br /><br />This carefully constructed new world soon finds itself in grave danger.  The African children come under the attack of a variant of the Black Ep virus, while an unknown outside entity invades the virtual reality component of the European society, unleashing secrets that could tear that family apart.  These changes are made most manifest in a child named Penny.  Genetic engineering or no, Penny displays all-too-human traits; regarding herself as the best and brightest, she rebels when she doesn't get her way.  That rebellion, in combination with the destabilization wrought by an outsider, threatens the very founders of this new world.<br /><br />Nothing draws distant \\"relatives\\" together like looming tragedy, but the reunion of all but one Idlewild survivor by no means guarantees that disaster will be averted.  We follow the whole story through the eyes of several narrators: a young voice from each family along with the seasoned voice of one of the founders.  The blend of spirituality with scientific artificiality makes for an interesting contrast in lifestyles, while the madness of young Penny works like a virus of its own, distorting the whole experience into something increasingly dark and deadly.  One longs for the return of Halloween, the voice and main character of the first novel, for his is in many ways the real voice of reason in this crazy post-apocalyptic world.  His eventual return to the fold, however, comes too late to truly save the day.  As in the utopia which inspired this novel's title, an outside agent succeeds in seducing one of the innocents and bringing about a dramatic fall from grace.  Edenborn ends with both tragedy and a sense of hope, setting the stage for what should be a fascinating third entry in the series.the madness of young Penny works like a virus of its own, distorting the whole experience into something increasingly dark and deadly.  One longs for the return of Halloween, the voice and main character of the first novel, for his is in many ways the real voice of reason in this crazy post-apocalyptic world.  His eventual return to the fold, however, comes too late to truly save the day.  As in the utopia which inspired this novel's title, an outside agent succeeds in seducing one of the innocents and bringing about a dramatic fall from grace.  Edenborn ends with both tragedy and a sense of hope, setting the stage for what should be a fascinating third entry in the series.	2005-09-02
82403:US	53016962	RPW2I6IBHV5PE	1411630610	157793114	Day of Rest	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A frank, provocative, expectation-defying read	According to the narrator of this gritty, frank, scathingly honest first-person novel, this is a religious book that Christians will not classify as such.  Well, he's right to some extent.  This is a far cry from \\"I saw the light\\" Christian fiction.  Clearly, though, it is largely about religion, casting its line into the murky depths of its philosophical rather than spiritual waters.<br /><br />This book is Sean Banks' (or Banksie's) life story, a rather blunt account of a very hard life.  Born into misery, with an addict for a mother and a violent alcoholic for a father, Banksie followed a dark road on his life's journey (even though he's only 23, he has seemingly lived a lifetime), his only light coming from Laurelly, his sole childhood friend.  She came from much better circumstances than Banksie, but she never abandoned him throughout his many trials, and the two enjoyed an all-too-brief love affair.  She was the person who gave him the strength to finally stand up for himself.  From that point on, no one messed with Banksie, and he did some truly horrible, almost unforgivable things.  He placed no value on anyone else's life, as many a victim came to learn.  As you might suspect, imprisonment quickly became a major part of Banksie's life.  For a time, though, Banksie seemed to get his life on track.  He and Laurelly were happy together, he was earning enough money to get by, and the future looked bright.  Then drug addiction smashed its dark hand over everything, and the two young lovers had to resort to living on the streets, stealing whatever they could in order to keep their supply of ever-more-powerful drugs coming in.  Then true tragedy struck, and Banksie was left burning up inside with a lust for revenge.  He would not blame himself for what happened; instead, he blamed God, and he sought revenge against God's human agents on Earth.  His attacks on Christians far exceed anything that Saul of Tarsus ever did before his conversion on the road to Damascus.<br /><br />The heart of this story, as I read it, is Banksie's philosophical viewpoint on religion, and it represents a most unusual take on the subject.  Through dialogue with a fellow inmate (a preacher with blood on his hands), Banksie comes up with his own definition of redemption.  He does not repent any of his dastardly sins - in fact, he never feels an ounce of remorse for anything he has done, and he certainly does not love God.  He wants to regain the only thing that mattered to him, though, and he knows he must repent in order to get what he wants, so he repents - but for him, it only means committing himself to do things differently than before.  It's an act purely devoid of emotion.  The novel ends (and not without a bit of irony) with Banksie laying down for us his personal interpretation of God's love.<br /><br />Many a Christian might be appalled by this book.  As a Christian myself, though, I'm more intrigued than appalled by what I have read.  My attitude toward Banksie is strangely ambivalent, perhaps because I don't know quite what to think of him.  I certainly don't commiserate with him, yet I don't hate him either - despite his litany of hateful actions.  For a short novel written in such blunt, straightforward terms, Day of Rest provides much food for thought - about both society and religion.  It gives us a bird's-eye view into the kind of tragic life we tend to ignore or pass judgment on, and it asks some of the tough questions that we tend to avoid.  With its bizarre spin on the nature of Christianity and redemption, Day of Rest proves to be a strangely compelling piece of fiction.cus.   <br /> <br />The heart of this story, as I read it, is Banksie's philosophical viewpoint on religion, and it represents a most unusual take on the subject.  Through dialogue with a fellow inmate (a preacher with blood on his hands), Banksie comes up with his own definition of redemption.  He does not repent any of his dastardly sins - in fact, he never feels an ounce of remorse for anything he has done, and he certainly does not love God.  He wants to regain the only thing that mattered to him, though, and he knows he must repent in order to get what he wants, so he repents - but for him, it only means committing himself to do things differently than before.  It's an act purely devoid of emotion.  The novel ends (and not without a bit of irony) with Banksie laying down for us his personal interpretation of God's love. <br /> <br />Many a Christian might be appalled by this book.  As a Christian myself, though, I'm more intrigued than appalled by what I have read.  My attitude toward Banksie is strangely ambivalent, perhaps because I don't know quite what to think of him.  I certainly don't commiserate with him, yet I don't hate him either - despite his litany of hateful actions.  For a short novel written in such blunt, straightforward terms, Day of Rest provides much food for thought - about both society and religion.  It gives us a bird's-eye view into the kind of tragic life we tend to ignore or pass judgment on, and it asks some of the tough questions that we tend to avoid.   With its bizarre spin on the nature of Christianity and redemption, Day of Rest proves to be a strangely compelling piece of fiction.	2005-08-31
84005:US	53016962	R2Q8207RGMXI0Z	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of King's most unforgettable, well-crafted novels	I've always had sort of weird feelings about The Dead Zone.  It is a fantastic novel, yet it has never rated among my personal King favorites.  Maybe it's because I envision the story taking place in a cold, harsh world, devoid of color and light.  This really isn't a horror novel at all, so there are really no thrills and chills to be found until the few exhilarating moments that make up the climax of this pretty depressing story.  The Dead Zone is one of King's most accessible novels, however, and it exemplifies so many of this great author's strengths.  First and foremost, the man knows how to tell a story - no one does it better, in my opinion.  King's magic gift for characterization is also on display here, as John Smith, a thoroughly \\"Everyman\\" protagonist comes across as quite real and exceedingly human; he's a truly ordinary man placed in the most extraordinary of conditions.  King truly does the character right in the form of a truly masterful conclusion, as well.<br /><br />If you could go back in time to 1932 and meet Adolf Hitler, would you kill him?  That's the kind of question that ultimately comes to consume Johnny's mind as this story nears its end.  Would you sacrifice yourself for the lives of so many other people, virtually all of them strangers?<br /><br />John Smith is just an ordinary fellow; he's got a job he enjoys, he's fallen in love with a good woman, and he's as happy as he's ever been.  Then The Accident happens, and Johnny wakes up to learn that his world will never be the same.  He's been in a coma for well over four years, and he faces a painful road to recovery both mentally and physically.  His girl has married someone else, his mother has gone off the deep end of religious zeal, he faces painful, scarring surgeries in the brutal months ahead, and he really struggles to find a reason for living in such a harsh new world.  He has gained something from the awful experience, however, and it's both a blessing and a curse.  At times, he can see the future just by touching a person or an object.  It's a frightening power, one that alienates him even further from those around him.  When word gets out, he finds himself deluged with pleas for help from people all over the country.  All he wants is to live an ordinary life again, but his psychic powers make this impossible.  His mother believes God has special plans for Johnny, and in the end he thinks she may be right.  He alone, as things turn out, can save his country and maybe the entire world from devastating future destruction wrought by a madman.<br /><br />Smith is one of King's most sympathetic characters.  He's one of us, really, and we suffer along with him as he starts life anew.  His physical problems are horrendous, but they pale in comparison to his emotional loss.  He's lost his girl, yet he can't even blame her for thinking he would never recover and thus starting her life anew in someone else's arms.  He doesn't know what to think or do about this strange power he has developed; it scares people, and it scares him - yet he knows it allows him to do some good things for people.  He also knows he can't run away from it.  The problem is that no one really believes his predictions until they have proven themselves to be accurate.  That is why he has to make the most heroic, most gut-wrenching decision of his life completely on his own.<br /><br />John Smith is a fabulous character, and The Dead Zone is a truly masterful modern novel.  While some of the subtext of the story is rooted in the 1970s, this really is a book for all seasons.  It will never make my list of King's top five novels, but it's one of the most compelling stories you'll ever read.ture just by touching a person or an object.  It's a frightening power, one that alienates him even further from those around him.  When word gets out, he finds himself deluged with pleas for help from people all over the country.  All he wants is to live an ordinary life again, but his psychic powers make this impossible.  His mother believes God has special plans for Johnny, and in the end he thinks she may be right.  He alone, as things turn out, can save his country and maybe the entire world from devastating future destruction wrought by a madman.      Smith is one of King's most sympathetic characters.  He's one of us, really, and we suffer along with him as he starts life anew.  His physical problems are horrendous, but they pale in comparison to his emotional loss.  He's lost his girl, yet he can't even blame her for thinking he would never recover and thus starting her life anew in someone else's arms.  He doesn't know what to think or do about this strange power he has developed; it scares people, and it scares him - yet he knows it allows him to do some good things for people.  He also knows he can't run away from it.  The problem is that no one really believes his predictions until they have proven themselves to be accurate.  That is why he has to make the most heroic, most gut-wrenching decision of his life completely on his own.      John Smith is a fabulous character, and The Dead Zone is a truly masterful modern novel.  While some of the subtext of the story is rooted in the 1970s, this really is a book for all seasons.  It will never make my list of King's top five novels, but it's one of the most compelling stories you'll ever read.	2005-08-30
87877:US	53016962	RIMWEUQBT1DKQ	1590591046	76318275	In Search of Stupidity: Over 20 Years of High-Tech Marketing Disasters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How to lose friends and bankrupt people	Years ago, on Saturday Night Live, there was a Jeopardy skit, and one of the contestants (played by Adam Sandler) answered every question (or questioned every answer) the same way: \\"Who is the marketing genius who came up with this one?\\"  (or something akin to those words).  I thought about that old SNL sketch many times as I read through this fascinating book.  In Search of Stupidity is in many ways a history of the personal computer business and the radical changes that have taken place over the years.  All manner of companies have crashed and burned during this time.  Big Blue nosedived from its place of blue-chip royalty, Netscape shot itself in the foot, countless dot.com startups dot.came and dot.went, and a shocking number of other important companies disappeared.  After reading this book, one can no longer ask why Microsoft came to rule the roost; Bill Gates made fewer stupid mistakes than his would-be competitors.  And, yes, stupid is not too strong a word; it's the only way to describe the suicidal deaths of so many high-tech legends of yesteryear.<br /><br />This book really brought back some memories for me: visions of my old Commodore 64, for example, as well as Coleco's Adam (a system I absolutely lusted after as a kid); it also introduced me to products and services I do not remember.  It's amazing to look back now and see just how differently things could have gone in the high-tech business had stupidity not taken down many an important player in the game.  At one time, three companies led the way: Microsoft (with its DOS operating system), Lotus (with its spreadsheets), and Ashton-Tate (with its databases) - oh, how things have changed.  Merrill R. Chapman was certainly well-placed to chronicle this list of marketing disasters; he worked for some of the companies that collapsed (a voice of common sense crying unheeded in the wilderness), owned an astounding number of early computer systems, and stood there taking the pulse of his peers at many a computer show.<br /><br />Chapman looks at a number of companies here.  He shows how IBM blew its chance to really steer the whole future of high-tech by depending solely on its fabled aura of invincibility (as opposed to, say, marketing or making smart decisions) - an aura which was stripped away forever by the introduction of the disappointing OS/2 operating system (which, for example, would not print to anything but IBM printers when it was finally released, well past schedule).<br /><br />Then there's MicroPro, an early leader in the word processing market who (seeing that an upgrade to its successful WordStar line would never make its deadline) stupidly introduced WordStar 2000 alongside it- the fact that these were two separate products with no direct relationship to one another thoroughly confused consumers and forced the company to spend all its time trying to distinguish the two products in the public's mind.  That's nothing compared to Ashton-Tate, however, which at one time marketed some five database programs at the same time.  (These were the guys behind dBase, which saw itself supplanted by competitors after Ed Esber, perhaps the worst CEO in history, went out of his way to alienate everyone in the dBase community).  Oftentimes, these sorts of positioning problems were an after-effect of ill-thought mergers.  Not only did this sort of thing confuse consumers, it also created bitter factions within the companies themselves. Ed Esber, by the way, was not the only top dog who couldn't hold his tongue.  Netscape's Mark Andreesson did his company no favors with his own seeming inability to stop running his mouth (thereby increasing Bill Gates' determination to crush Netscape like a bug); sacrificing a couple of years to needlessly rewrite the entire code of the Netscape browser in 2000 did the company no favors either, allowing Microsoft to dominate the browser market.<br /><br />Even the successful companies dabbled with stupidity.  Even as Intel's Dancing Bunnies cavorted across television screens declaring just how essential the new Pentium chip was, consumers discovered that the glorious new chip could not count, thanks to a fault in its math coprocessor.  Microsoft fostered confusion by its \\"two thoroughbred\\" ads pushing Windows NT and Windows 95 simultaneously (seemingly unaware of the fact that a horse race can have only one winner), and Gates' maniacal assault on Netscape courted legal trouble from the Department of Justice (as did his vow to continue business as usual after securing a relatively favorable settlement in the company's first legal go-round).  Apple, which was seemingly well-placed to dominate the market early on, found out the hard way that labeling potential customers \\"lemmings\\" (in a fateful Super Bowl ad) does not exactly win over the hearts and minds of the target audience.<br /><br />Stupidly named products, attempts to sell a brand rather than the product or service itself (remember [...]sock puppet, who is now peddling auto loans), dependence on tradition and \\"invincibility\\" instead of sound marketing, evidence of hostility toward developers and the software community in general - all of these stupid mistakes and more are chronicled here in these pages.  Here you will rediscover dinosaurs of the early high-tech industry currently residing in multiple landfills across the southwestern United States, and I can assure you that your mind will be blown by some of the suicidal decisions now-defunct companies made.  Chapman is an engaging writer, making In Search of Stupidity as entertaining as it is instructive.ision screens declaring just how essential the new Pentium chip was, consumers discovered that the glorious new chip could not count, thanks to a fault in its math coprocessor.  Microsoft fostered confusion by its \\"two thoroughbred\\" ads pushing Windows NT and Windows 95 simultaneously (seemingly unaware of the fact that a horse race can have only one winner), and Gates' maniacal assault on Netscape courted legal trouble from the Department of Justice (as did his vow to continue business as usual after securing a relatively favorable settlement in the company's first legal go-round).  Apple, which was seemingly well-placed to dominate the market early on, found out the hard way that labeling potential customers \\"lemmings\\" (in a fateful Super Bowl ad) does not exactly win over the hearts and minds of the target audience.    Stupidly named products, attempts to sell a brand rather than the product or service itself (remember [...]sock puppet, who is now peddling auto loans), dependence on tradition and \\"invincibility\\" instead of sound marketing, evidence of hostility toward developers and the software community in general - all of these stupid mistakes and more are chronicled here in these pages.  Here you will rediscover dinosaurs of the early high-tech industry currently residing in multiple landfills across the southwestern United States, and I can assure you that your mind will be blown by some of the suicidal decisions now-defunct companies made.  Chapman is an engaging writer, making In Search of Stupidity as entertaining as it is instructive.	2005-08-28
107118:US	53016962	R1Z8X625SQSSGX	1589395115	273142803	Quest of the Seal Bearers Book 1: The Warriors Return	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An engaging, energetic, entertaining fantasy adventure	Epic fantasy quests are a dime a dozen, but good ones are of course much rarer - and Quest of the Seal Bearers certainly has the makings of a good one.  This first novel of the series does have the markings of a young novelist, but, in this case, that's more of a positive than a negative.  A few aspects of the plot would sound silly if I described them on their own, and I don't think a more experienced author would have gone in those directions, but Coleman makes them work - and I have to give him a few bonus points for audacity in the process.  In my perception, there's a youthful air of real energy swirling around the pages of this novel, and it gives the story an identity and character all its own.  The Warriors Return is not only interesting and entertaining; it's just plain fun to read.<br /><br />The story centers around a group of teenagers who are recruited to help save another world.  These fledgling heroes crave the kind of adventure they can't find in their boring home town, so they've organized an Action and Adventure Club.  This year's planned destination is Adventure Island - but the Club members never get that far.  Instead, they are maneuvered into a fateful rendezvous with Fantasma, the ruler of Mendala.  His planet is in major trouble, as an evil fellow named Davron has discovered the ancient Book of War and is using it to unleash horrible, indestructible monsters on his world.  More than Mendala hangs in the balance because Davron's ultimate goal is to secure power over dimensions beyond that planet itself.  The only individuals who can hopefully defeat Davron are the ancestors of those who defeated the last evil wizard to exploit the Book of War 10,000 years ago - and these young people are none other than the Earth-bound members of the Action and Adventure Club.<br /><br />Mendala is a rich fantasy world, much like Earth yet quite exotic at the same time.  Two forms of magic are in evidence there, as are some wondrous geographic locations such as the tunnels of Glorandor and the cloud-borne Rainbow Mountain with its menagerie of legendary creatures.  The most striking creatures of this world, however, are the unnatural beasts unleashed by the Book of War - huge rats, flying pigs, rock soldiers, and assorted slimy and exceedingly dangerous creations borne of darkness.<br /><br />There's a slight snafu in the young heroes' transfer from Earth to Mendala, leaving the club members scattered in both time and place.  The majority of this first book in the series consists of the young friends finding one another and coming together for their first frontal assault against Davron and his minions.  We learn a lot about the planet, its society, and its system of magic through these varied introductions to this strange new world.  While it can be a bit difficult to keep so many characters straight in your head as you're bouncing back and forth between isolated groupings of them, I think the author does an excellent job of telling these mini-stories concurrently, always with a view toward bringing everything (and everyone) together in the end.  Each character has a distinct story to tell about his/her experience on Mendala - a few are newly-arrived while others are well-established there already (one of them has even become a king).  These individual stories really represent rich and quite interesting reads on their own, but they also effectively set the tone for the group dynamics that come later.<br /><br />The magical qualities of this new world do offer some comparatively easy solutions to major problems, but all of the different talents and skills the heroes draw upon are really diverse and intriguing.  The sense of danger is also quite real as the heroes are constantly harassed by infernal creatures and attacked and way-laid on frequent occasions.  The big confrontation at the end also plays out well, although it carries the feel of what it is - the first major confrontation between organized forces of good and evil in a storyline that will includes additional volumes.<br /><br />As a fantasy fan, I have to say I was really quite impressed by The Warriors Return, and I look forward to the second installment in the Quest of the Seal Bearers series.  Coleman clearly has his own voice in the genre and is not simply re-hashing the same old fantasy quests we've read time and time again.  These young characters are real and believable in their thoughts and reactions, and that fact allows the book to engage the reader on a personal level.  The fact that the heroes consist of high school teenagers may make the book especially appealing to younger fans of fantasy, but fantasy lovers of all ages should find something to enjoy in The Warriors Return.of good and evil in a storyline that will includes additional volumes. <br /> <br />As a fantasy fan, I have to say I was really quite impressed by The Warriors Return, and I look forward to the second installment in the Quest of the Seal Bearers series.  Coleman clearly has his own voice in the genre and is not simply re-hashing the same old fantasy quests we've read time and time again.  These young characters are real and believable in their thoughts and reactions, and that fact allows the book to engage the reader on a personal level.  The fact that the heroes consist of high school teenagers may make the book especially appealing to younger fans of fantasy, but fantasy lovers of all ages should find something to enjoy in The Warriors Return.	2005-08-17
110671:US	53016962	R32Q86Q34YRWAO	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Life without love is just a cosmic joke	The writings of Robert Heinlein's later years are a good bit different from the science fiction classics he produced in his prime.  Job: A Comedy of Justice, published in 1984, is basically religious satire clothed in the guise of fantasy.  And, while it's not as odd as, say, Number of the Beast, it ultimately goes in a weird direction that pushes the envelope and then some.  Job is probably one of Heinlein's most readable novels, though.  While it's ostensibly about religion, it plays as more of a divine comedy than a moralistic, intellectual assault on Christian beliefs.<br /><br />Job is a modern retelling of the story of Job.  The Biblical Job, of course, was the subject of a wager between God and Satan.  Satan would throw everything he had at Job, and God bet that his servant's faithfulness would remain intact - as it did, despite Job losing all of his family and wealth while suffering terrible physical torments.  Our modern Job is Alex Hergensheimer, a fundamentalist preacher turned fund-raiser from a most devout, sexually repressed version of America.  On vacation in the Polynesians, he stupidly wagers that he can walk across a bed of hot coals.  Now, fire-walking is generally a pretty dangerous business, but in Alex's case, walking on the hot coals is the easy part.  The hard part comes when he emerges from the ordeal - and finds himself in a world that is not his own.  It looks like his world, but he finds himself boarding a different ship and living the life of another man - someone named Alec Graham.  He decides to play things by ear and try to solve the mystery when he returns to the States.  The only good thing about his extraordinary situation is the companionship he finds with a stewardess named Margrethe.  This delightful young lady had fallen in love with Graham, and she believes Alex to be him - and Alex soon returns those feelings most strongly.  Then the ship hits an iceberg, and the two lovers are stranded in the ocean.  This is when Alex knows he is either going crazy or somebody is really and truly out to get him - you just don't find giant icebergs floating in the South Pacific.<br /><br />Change becomes a constant in the lives of Alex and Margrethe, as they randomly travel from one world to another.  The change can come at the drop of a hat, but the two always remain together.  It's hard to make a living when you're suddenly thrown into another world in which the hard-earned money you've saved is suddenly worthless, though.  The pair are forced to rely on the kindness of strangers as they make their way to Alex's home destination of Kansas, traveling through worlds that feature exotic aircraft, no aircraft, modern automobiles, horses and buggies, etc.  With all of these inexplicable things happening to him, Alex becomes convinced that the end of the world is nigh - and he is constantly worried over the future of his beloved Margrethe, who has rejected Christianity in favor of her native Danish beliefs (Odin, Valhalla, etc.).  It turns out to be a valid concern on his part, as the final chapters take Alex well beyond Earth itself.<br /><br />The whole world-phasing thing initially puts the book on a science fiction foundation, but the later chapters change the whole scope of the novel.  Religion becomes the central theme, and Alex finally finds out what has been going on all this time.  It's deus ex machine writ very large indeed.  I can't say it's a completely fulfilling conclusion to this weird drama, but it does tie everything together.  It's rather campy, however, and that fact dilutes the force of whatever religious statements Heinlein was trying to make.  What emerges most strongly is the power of true love, which trumps both heaven and hell in Alex's heart.<br /><br />In the end, what you have in Job is a work of imaginative religious satire.  In this story, God does indeed play with dice - loaded dice, in fact, and the Adversary is rather an all-right kind of guy.  Even though he paints the Godof heaven as a rather impotent child of sorts, Heinlein never manages to offend those of us with Christian beliefs, though, largely because the whole story is just too fantastic to be taken all that seriously.  Some may find this a thought-provoking novel, but I can't say I take all that much away from it.  It's entertaining, but it lacks the bite that infused much of Heinlein's fiction.nts the God of heaven as a rather impotent child of sorts, Heinlein never manages to offend those of us with Christian beliefs, though, largely because the whole story is just too fantastic to be taken all that seriously.  Some may find this a thought-provoking novel, but I can't say I take all that much away from it.  It's entertaining, but it lacks the bite that infused much of Heinlein's fiction.	2005-08-15
111888:US	53016962	R3VRDF66X5JAV5	1413747167	80629383	King without an Empire	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Highly imaginative sci-fi with complex spiritual aspects	King Without an Empire is an unusual novel, full of exotic ideas and notions from advanced nanotechnology to hallucinogenic spiritual journeys.  I must admit I found parts of the narrative, especially toward the end, rather confusing, and the whole novel is more esoteric than I expected.  I was drawn to the plot summary, which promised a trip to Alpha Centauri and a planet secretly colonized by Nazis.  The planet of Pangea, however, cannot possibly be described in anything approaching simple terms, and there is little so mundane as goose-stepping to be found in its unusual cities.<br /><br />The protagonist of the novel is Michael Bassett, a fantastically rich businessman who finances a project that will take him to the solar system around Alpha Centauri, Sol's nearest neighbor.  In the initial stages of the story, we see Bassett globetrotting from one place to another to interview scientists capable of making his dream of interstellar travel come true.  He meets a lot of strange characters and gets a short education in the history of Black Ops technology in the West.  Apparently, he finds who and what he needs, as the next thing you know, he's landed on an alien planet alongside a small group of scientists.  Their ship destroyed, the men go about setting up camp and getting along with life on this alien world, but the field trip to Pangea soon becomes a wild, dangerous, perplexing adventure.  The men meet up with a stranger who claims to have worked for the Third Reich during World War II and taken part in a secret mission of interstellar discovery.  Then a somewhat mystical entity called Lady Circe appears, sending Michael on a quest to become a man of knowledge.  The spiritual journeys he takes invariably involve the drinking of hallucinogen-laced liquids.<br /><br />This is where things start to get a little fuzzy.  Bassett discovers incredible things during his \\"trips,\\" which tend to blur the lines between the real and unreal.  You also have to question how much of Bassett's experience is being staged by the most exotic form of alien intelligence I've ever encountered, an oceanic entity which seeks to communicate with Bassett in what can only be the most unconventional of ways.  Another source of confusion is the fact that Pangea is in many ways identical to Earth.  America, Germany, England - all of these nations exist on Pangea; what's more, the animal life forms inherent to the planet match those of Earth in millennia past.<br /><br />Bassett soon finds himself imprisoned and tortured for years before being released into a world that is beyond strange.  It's a technological wonderland run by an advanced race of beings called the Eons, yet Nazis rule the Germany of this, the Continental Kingdom, in the most iron-fisted and repressive of ways.  The Eons don't care about human lives; in fact, they routinely conduct intrusive and cruel tests on the human population - including Bassett.  In the latter stages of the novel, though, Bassett finally gets the chance to pursue his spiritual quest to become a man of knowledge.  It all leads up to a rather nebulous conclusion.<br /><br />Collins packs all kinds of incredible science-fiction ideas into the narrative.  His description of the technological advancements of the Eons fills a number of pages.  The level of detail he routinely includes on this and other matters tends to take something away from the story's progression, however.  We are given entire histories of minor characters who disappear as suddenly as they appear, and Bassett's personal story is set aside at times for intricate descriptions of technological marvels.  All in all, Collins tells a somewhat confusing story, and it took a second reading before I felt I had a good understanding of what happened to Bassett on Pangea.n how much of Bassett's experience is being staged by the most exotic form of alien intelligence I've ever encountered, an oceanic entity which seeks to communicate with Bassett in what can only be the most unconventional of ways.  Another source of confusion is the fact that Pangea is in many ways identical to Earth.  America, Germany, England - all of these nations exist on Pangea; what's more, the animal life forms inherent to the planet match those of Earth in millennia past.   <br /> <br />Bassett soon finds himself imprisoned and tortured for years before being released into a world that is beyond strange.  It's a technological wonderland run by an advanced race of beings called the Eons, yet Nazis rule the Germany of this, the Continental Kingdom, in the most iron-fisted and repressive of ways.  The Eons don't care about human lives; in fact, they routinely conduct intrusive and cruel tests on the human population - including Bassett.  In the latter stages of the novel, though, Bassett finally gets the chance to pursue his spiritual quest to become a man of knowledge.  It all leads up to a rather nebulous conclusion. <br /> <br />Collins packs all kinds of incredible science-fiction ideas into the narrative.  His description of the technological advancements of the Eons fills a number of pages.  The level of detail he routinely includes on this and other matters tends to take something away from the story's progression, however.  We are given entire histories of minor characters who disappear as suddenly as they appear, and Bassett's personal story is set aside at times for intricate descriptions of technological marvels.  All in all, Collins tells a somewhat confusing story, and it took a second reading before I felt I had a good understanding of what happened to Bassett on Pangea.	2005-08-14
118642:US	53016962	R3GS3V5KIKD332	0061092193	308641592	Men at Arms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Personal isn't the same as important	Men at Arms reunites us with the stalwart defenders of our beloved Ankh-Morpork: the Night Watch.  Along the way we also meet up with some of the Discworld's most distinctive secondary characters (including Foul Ole Ron and Big Fido), get a glimpse of affirmative action Ankh-Morpork-style, discover the identity of the rightful king (if Ankh-Morpork still had a king, which it doesn't, which isn't the fault of the shady characters in this book trying to replace the Patrician with the aforementioned heir to the throne, who doesn't want the job anyway), converse once more with Gaspode the talking dog, and - if that's not enough - make ready for the wedding of the year between Captain Samuel Vimes of the Night Watch and Lady Sybil Ramkin, proprietor of the Sunshine Sanctuary for Sick Dragons and the richest woman in Ankh-Morpork.  Captain Vimes is in fact retiring from the Watch, but his retirement involves much more than the traditional gift watch presentation from his men.  A washed-up aristocrat named Edward D'eath takes it upon himself to restore the long-lost monarchy, a circumstance that can only come about over the Patrician's dead body.  Even clowns aren't safe from this deadly conspiracy.<br /><br />The trouble begins with an explosion and robbery at the Guild of Assassins.  Someone has stolen nothing less than the only \\"gonne\\" on Discworld, and a series of murders shock the town.  OK, nothing's really going to shock the people of Ankh-Morpork, but the fact that people keep turning up full of holes where guts should be definitely stirs up the Watchmen.  The Patrician is also less than happy about things, so he makes sure the Watch gets to the bottom of things by forbidding Captain Vimes to investigate.  The Watch itself is growing; thanks to some new laws pushed through by the Silicon Anti-Defamation League, it has ethnically balanced itself with the addition of a dwarf, a troll, and a woman to the force.  The woman, Angua, also happens to be a werewolf, and I don't have to tell you that dwarfs and trolls are natural enemies.  Luckily, Constable Carrot, the 6'6\\" dwarf (he was adopted, you know) who is just so doggoned nice that people will actually listen to him and do as he requests, is there to keep the Watch united and performing its duty the way Carrot (alone) thinks it should be done.  After a dwarf is killed and a troll arrested by the Day Watch (on the basis that any troll is surely guilty of something), there's an ever-present danger that the city's trolls and dwarfs will have a go at each other (and it won't be like last time, when both groups somehow managed to ambush one another at the same time).<br /><br />Constable Detritus really steals the show here.  Watching a troll think is always entertaining, but Detritus really comes into his own as this story progresses.  At first, he can't salute without knocking himself out, but by the end he's recruiting and training fellow trolls (in his own endearing way) and warming up quite well to his dwarf partner.  He also manages to show us that, in the right conditions (such as the kind of very cold temperature you find in a pork futures market), trolls can be brilliant thinkers.<br /><br />People always die in Discworld novels, but there was one death in Men at Arms that really took me by surprise.  A bit sad, it was.  Don't be sad about Captain Vimes leaving the Night Watch, though.  Furthermore, don't worry about the future of the City Guard, as it does not fall into the hands of Sergeant Colon or Corporal Nobbs (who, as we all know, has already been disqualified from the human race for shoving).  I'm sure the men and women and dwarfs and trolls and werewolf of the Night Watch will be as ready as ever for the next threat that rears its ugly head in Ankh-Morpork; after all, Carrot's still on the job.don't have to tell you that dwarfs and trolls are natural enemies.  Luckily, Constable Carrot, the 6'6\\" dwarf (he was adopted, you know) who is just so doggoned nice that people will actually listen to him and do as he requests, is there to keep the Watch united and performing its duty the way Carrot (alone) thinks it should be done.  After a dwarf is killed and a troll arrested by the Day Watch (on the basis that any troll is surely guilty of something), there's an ever-present danger that the city's trolls and dwarfs will have a go at each other (and it won't be like last time, when both groups somehow managed to ambush one another at the same time). <br /> <br />Constable Detritus really steals the show here.  Watching a troll think is always entertaining, but Detritus really comes into his own as this story progresses.  At first, he can't salute without knocking himself out, but by the end he's recruiting and training fellow trolls (in his own endearing way) and warming up quite well to his dwarf partner.  He also manages to show us that, in the right conditions (such as the kind of very cold temperature you find in a pork futures market), trolls can be brilliant thinkers.   <br /> <br />People always die in Discworld novels, but there was one death in Men at Arms that really took me by surprise.  A bit sad, it was.  Don't be sad about Captain Vimes leaving the Night Watch, though.  Furthermore, don't worry about the future of the City Guard, as it does not fall into the hands of Sergeant Colon or Corporal Nobbs (who, as we all know, has already been disqualified from the human race for shoving).  I'm sure the men and women and dwarfs and trolls and werewolf of the Night Watch will be as ready as ever for the next threat that rears its ugly head in Ankh-Morpork; after all, Carrot's still on the job.	2005-08-11
126257:US	53016962	R2P2MXC56DOEFP	1412047005	812937424	Seeds of Heaven	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A spiritual journey into man's past and future possibilities	I found Seeds of Heaven to be a fascinating story, full of insight, surprises, and a sense of vision rarely seen in works of fiction.  What the author is attempting to do, in this and future volumes of The Gaian Chronicles, is to offer a reconstructed history of life on earth.  This is fiction based on New Age ideas and discoveries as drawn from the work of alternate thinkers such as Zechariah Sitchin, Graham Hancock, and others.  It begins in Atlantis, casts the reader's eye upon scenes such as the Garden of Eden and the Great Flood, and continues up to the building of Egyptian civilization following a great cataclysm that literally changed the topography of the planet.  Physical existence on earth is shown to be but a precursor to an afterlife consisting of a number of heavenly levels.  A number of famous individuals can be found inside the narrative, some of whom you may not even notice unless you are really in tune with the author's methods and intentions.<br /><br />In this scenario, the mysterious leap from pre-human civilizations to the ancient cultures of man is explained by the arrival and ministrations of Arcturians representing the Intergalactic Federation of Sovereign Planets.  At its head stands the Progenitor, and it is she who guides the development of history in this world.  Disobeying protocols, a number of the Arcturians took human wives and produced a progeny called the Children of Light.  The main character, Seraphis, is one of them.  Interestingly enough, he dies following the first chapter of the book.  The afterlife is just life on another plane, however, so Seraphis' story takes us into the first levels of heaven even as it reflects upon and discerns meaning from his own past.  It is his wife Isis and children Osiris and Amen Ra who will be called upon to rebuild New Atlantis (Egypt) in the days following the great cataclysm.  That disaster, in which deserts become seas and vice versa, is far from natural, and its most significant aftereffect is the destruction of Atlantis itself and the loss of the powerful link uniting the different cultures of earth under Arcturian oversight.  An evil, grasping Child of Light called Hister ignores the warnings of ancient teachings by waging war on the kingdom of Thule, bringing destruction to his own land as a result.  The novel primarily deals with man's response to and recovery from the disaster - leaving open, at least for the time being, troubling questions about the events leading up to Hister's foolish act.<br /><br />Despite the large scope - historically, culturally, and philosophically - Seeds of Heaven is also a very personal book.  I found the main characters, particularly Seraphis, to be well-developed individuals of significant depth and passion.  You have peasants who rise to the rank of great men based on their own ingenuity and intelligence, an emperor of the east who voluntarily stays behind to lead those of his people denied a spiritual exodus of more advanced souls, a vain and hungry leader seeking to grab enormous power in the wake of the great disaster, and engaging spiritual leaders residing in the higher planes of existence and seeking increased enlightenment.<br /><br />It is important to note that the author has a web site that discusses his purposes behind the novel, the ideas that define his imagination, and the significance of terms and concepts some readers may not be familiar with.  Even the cover art has significance that doesn't immediately reveal itself to all.  It's a safe bet that those familiar with the ideas behind Seeds of Heaven will enjoy the read much more than those yet to encounter the kind of eastern philosophical and generally New Age ideas that form the backdrop of the story.  I have some familiarity with the type of Interventionism ideas that Abao expands upon in his narrative, so I had no trouble keeping up with the shifting places and events of the story.  Those without such knowledge may find the novel confusing at times and may well have trouble understanding the author's purpose in telling this story.  Seeds of Heaven is not light reading, nor is it meant to merely amuse readers for a few hours.  The book harbor truths as the author has come to see them, builds itself quite well on the ideas of alternative thinkers that have come before, and stands as a valuable challenge to those willing to expand their mind beyond conventional thinking.sing at times and may well have trouble understanding the author's purpose in telling this story.  Seeds of Heaven is not light reading, nor is it meant to merely amuse readers for a few hours.  The book harbor truths as the author has come to see them, builds itself quite well on the ideas of alternative thinkers that have come before, and stands as a valuable challenge to those willing to expand their mind beyond conventional thinking.	2005-08-07
139288:US	53016962	R2O7MNOZW0XENO	1411630750	487868841	King of Glory	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An inspirational, deeply personal story of God's infinite love	Kristen Halter gives us an amazing story of God's love and mercy in the pages of King of Glory.  There's no hiding the light of salvation under a bushel here, as Jesus' boundless love for every individual is made manifest by his inclusion in the story itself.  The characters can't physically detect Him, but He is right there beside them, calling to them, encouraging them, alleviating their pain.  His constant presence makes this an incredibly personal story yielding an uncommonly strong connection with the human heart.  Christians will treasure King of Glory because it demonstrates the kind of personal relationship with God we should all seek to establish.  Non-Christians may be put off by the overtly Christian nature and purpose of the story, but those who follow King of Glory through to its conclusion will have their hearts challenged and will know that Jesus has spoken to them in the form of this novel.  Let me hasten to add the fact that the book is not \\"preachy,\\" despite its obvious and overriding evangelical nature.  It communicates its Gospel message quite clearly, but it does so by turning readers' eyes to Jesus and showing them how much He loves them and how much He suffered on their behalf.<br /><br />It all starts with an incredible archaeological discovery in a cave outside Jerusalem.  The retired archaeologist who was led there by God to make the discovery does nothing with it because that is God's will.  Instead, he secures it in a safe place until such time as the right person comes along to discover it.  That person is Giselle, a single mom struggling to make ends meet and take care of her son.  She gave up her dreams in order to follow the path God lay before her, but she is far from content.  At times, she feels hatred for God for letting her son suffer the pains of not having a father, then hates herself for her feelings.  She raises young Jonathon to love and look to his heavenly Father, but she oftentimes sees herself as a complete nobody of no importance.  She is therefore shocked when she discovers that God has chosen her to present a great treasure, the one discovered by the archaeologist several decades earlier, to the world.  It is an artifact with the potential to change everything.<br /><br />Another central character is Gregorio Vargas, lead singer of the Jesus Freaks, a wildly popular Christian band.  Approaching his mid-40s, Gregorio yearns to find a soul mate, one who will understand and amplify his passion for the Lord.  Unlike Giselle, he has fame and money, but material things don't make him happy in this life.  As you might expect, he and Giselle are drawn to each other.  Even after both of them find what they have desired for so long, their faith is tested by the work of evil forces.  Bad things do happen to good Christians, and many have struggled to understand why this is so.  Just saying it is God's will doesn't do much to comfort the suffering, but Halter offers a poignant example of the depth of meaning and importance in that divine will.<br /><br />King of Glory leads up to a powerful conclusion that reinforces everything the author has been talking about.  Heavenly joy is born of human sorrow, and the love of Jesus shines through the darkest of nights.  It's a powerful, emotional ending that reaches out and grabs you.  Make no mistake about it: Jesus lives in the pages of King of Glory.o importance.  She is therefore shocked when she discovers that God has chosen her to present a great treasure, the one discovered by the archaeologist several decades earlier, to the world.  It is an artifact with the potential to change everything. <br /> <br />Another central character is Gregorio Vargas, lead singer of the Jesus Freaks, a wildly popular Christian band.  Approaching his mid-40s, Gregorio yearns to find a soul mate, one who will understand and amplify his passion for the Lord.  Unlike Giselle, he has fame and money, but material things don't make him happy in this life.  As you might expect, he and Giselle are drawn to each other.  Even after both of them find what they have desired for so long, their faith is tested by the work of evil forces.  Bad things do happen to good Christians, and many have struggled to understand why this is so.  Just saying it is God's will doesn't do much to comfort the suffering, but Halter offers a poignant example of the depth of meaning and importance in that divine will. <br /> <br />King of Glory leads up to a powerful conclusion that reinforces everything the author has been talking about.  Heavenly joy is born of human sorrow, and the love of Jesus shines through the darkest of nights.  It's a powerful, emotional ending that reaches out and grabs you.  Make no mistake about it: Jesus lives in the pages of King of Glory.	2005-07-31
146864:US	53016962	R2G68CNH203IK8	0441012108	652303425	Omega	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fascinating sociological science fiction	Some readers don't seem to grok Jack McDevitt, but he remains one of my all-time favorite writers of science fiction - and Omega did not disappoint this fan.  He may take technological shortcuts at times, but McDevitt is a master at creating exceedingly human characters and seeing what they will do in futuristic sociological situations.  In Omega, the story revolves around a newly discovered, intelligent alien race - one that unknowingly lies in the path of imminent destruction.<br /><br />McDevitt's readers have followed Patricia \\"Hutch\\" Hutchinson through some wonderfully exciting adventures (in The Engines of God, Deepsix, and Chindi).  In what looks to be the final Hutch novel, the focus shifts considerably.  The intrepid hero of past jaunts now finds herself behind a desk, serving as the Director of Operations at the Academy, when word comes in that intelligent life has been discovered on a distant planet.  Mankind had come close before, finding two exceedingly primitive alien societies, turning up lost artifacts on a number of worlds left by the mysterious Monument-Makers, and discovering a gigantic ship that served effectively as a museum of past interstellar races.  Overshadowing everything was the discovery of omega clouds, wholly mysterious entities roaming the universe and destroying life-bearing planets.  One of these omega clouds is headed for Earth, but governments and scientists have put little money into research efforts because the cloud is not due for another 900 years.  The newly-discovered inhabitants of the planet unceremoniously dubbed Lookout, however, have a mere nine months before seemingly inevitable destruction.<br /><br />Hutch coordinates the rushed effort to get people out there to do what they can to save lives.  Because of their resemblance to a popular children's cartoon character, the inhabitants there are dubbed Goompahs - and the people of earth fall in love with them (which raises all sorts of issues in and of itself).  The first Academy personnel to reach the planet surreptitiously stash recording devices all over the place, allowing scientists and linguists to begin trying to interpret the language and understand the culture based on recorded conversations, debates, plays, etc.  The Goompahs are unusual in that they live comparatively simple lives seemingly free of war and full of play; their cities all cluster around a central isthmus, and they seem to have no desire to expand across their seas.  They are, in essence, many a scientist's dream come true - but they will all be dead within the year unless mankind can figure out a way to save them (and to do so in such a way that they are not alerted to mankind's presence).<br /><br />An intensive effort is made to destroy or divert the deadly cloud - and to camouflage the Goompah cities in the event the cloud does hit.  As disaster draws nigh, brilliant minds try to figure out a way to warn the Goompahs of the coming cataclysm and evacuate them to higher ground - Protocol or no Protocol.  Everyone involved becomes fascinated by these noble innocents and their simple yet enlightened Goompah philosophy of life.  This is the equivalent of a sociological study of an alien culture - and McDevitt works his way through all sorts of ethical dilemmas and provocative questions in his typically deft, insightful manner.  As the cloud closes in, the pace of the story goes into overdrive, and true heroes emerge on both sides of the alien divide.  It feels strange not to have Hutch out there making more of her patented miracles happen, but the scientists on the frontlines of this unprecedented effort grow into well-developed characters capable of producing some on-the-fly magic of their own.<br /><br />Omega does have a few small faults, however.  Technology such as light-benders (allowing for invisibility) makes things far too easy for the scientists, a couple of human dimensions of the story (especially the early death of one of the project leaders dueto another person's moment of utter stupidity) don't have the lasting impact they should have, and the ultimate explanation of the omega clouds themselves is rather disappointing.  Still, McDevitt never fails to sweep me up in the events he describes, and I enjoyed this novel just as much as the author's earlier works in the Hutch series.t leaders due to another person's moment of utter stupidity) don't have the lasting impact they should have, and the ultimate explanation of the omega clouds themselves is rather disappointing.  Still, McDevitt never fails to sweep me up in the events he describes, and I enjoyed this novel just as much as the author's earlier works in the Hutch series.	2005-07-27
150448:US	53016962	R1VFJM2DAP788J	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Will change the way you look at the entire series	The only bad thing about Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is the fact that I will never be able to look at the previous books the same way again.  The concluding events of Book Six really change everything - no longer can I talk about Harry Potter and begin sentences with the words \\"I'll bet...\\" or \\"I wouldn't be surprised if...\\"  Some of my hopes and intuitions would seem to be thoroughly dashed now.  I'm not saying this is a bad thing, but this book left me both eaten up inside and horribly empty at the same time.  My suspicions were correct in some regards, but I was thoroughly shocked in places.  The ending is just heart-breaking, seemingly ensuring that the seventh and final book will be extremely dark.<br /><br />A large part of the book sort of takes you back to the good old days, though.  There are even stretches where Voldemort's shadow seems to fade completely away momentarily.  There's a new teacher to get to know, a new dimension to the studies of our sixth year heroes, and, of course, Quidditch matches to be played.  The half-blood prince worked out much differently than I had envisioned, adding yet another air of mystery over the year's proceedings.  Then there's Malfoy, whose changed manner and mysterious doings harbor no good whatsoever - he's no longer the Malfoy we've known before now.  Then there is, of course, that whole teenaged thing, as the relationships in this book take center stage.  Ron and Hermione, of course, argue a lot - but it goes much further than ever before this year.  As for Harry's burgeoning love life, things finally go in the direction I always wanted them to go (and I loved the subtle way in which Rowling nursed it along)  - but, of course, all bets are off with the momentous changes that take place in the end.<br /><br />I just have so many questions now, as it seems hard to believe that what happened did actually happen in the way it happened, and it seems like it should never have happened at all.  Alas, I can not go into more detail here, though.  Book Seven will be unlike any that have come before (and this book itself was quite different in that Harry doesn't even appear until page 38).  Enjoy the first 550 pages of this one, as these pages feature the last days of anything approaching innocence in this magical world we all love so much.  The ending may well leave you in tears; you may not even feel like the same person after you finish it.  I don't consider Book Six quite as strong as Book Five, but, at the same time, I think it proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that J.K. Rowling is the best writer of our generation.n not go into more detail here, though.  Book Seven will be unlike any that have come before (and this book itself was quite different in that Harry doesn't even appear until page 38).  Enjoy the first 550 pages of this one, as these pages feature the last days of anything approaching innocence in this magical world we all love so much.  The ending may well leave you in tears; you may not even feel like the same person after you finish it.  I don't consider Book Six quite as strong as Book Five, but, at the same time, I think it proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that J.K. Rowling is the best writer of our generation.	2005-07-24
152737:US	53016962	R1HY6B88OFSWP2	0876808224	316033115	Ain't God Good!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Jerry's first book is full of wit and wisdom	Folks kept telling Jerry Clower he should cut a record, and he went on to become the premiere country comic in the land.  Then a few people told Jerry he should write a book, and he did (several, in fact) - and this is the first one.  This isn't an autobiography, although Jerry does talk a lot about his life and the book does contain a wealth of pictures; it's really just Jerry being Jerry, telling funny stories, talking about how he grew up and later backed his way into show business, spreading the Gospel that he lived every day of his life by, going on about how much his family means to him, etc.  I have no doubt that Jerry Clower was the funniest man who ever lived; I never got the chance to see him in person, but I've always felt as if I knew him.  He could forever more put on a show and have folks rolling in the aisles, but he was 100% genuine, honest, sincere, a living example of the best kind of man.  Listen to one of his albums and/or read this book, and you'll feel like you know him, as well.<br /><br />Jerry had released four hugely successful records when Ain't Got Good! was originally published in 1975.  Some of his most famous material finds its way into this book, and it's amazing how you can hear Jerry speaking every word you read.  Folks, if you ain't ever heard Coon Huntin' Story, you just don't know what funny is.  If the name Marcel Ledbetter means nothing to you, you might as well not even come around my part of the country.  Whether you are a Southerner or a Yankee or anything else, you need to seek out Jerry Clower and get to know him through his records and books.<br /><br />This whole book reads as if Jerry is sitting right there having a personal conversation with you.  He's proud to be from Amite County, Mississippi, and he's incredibly honest about his childhood.  He talks about growing up a bigot before finding Christ and getting some sense knocked into his head.  Success never changed him a lick, and he goes out of his way to credit the family, friends and employers who inspired, supported, and loved him.  He can talk all day about his wife Homerline (also known as \\"that woman what lives with Mr. Clower\\") and his four children, and he devotes one chapter to the incredible responsibilities inherent in fatherhood.  This book is full of life lessons, especially when it comes to the simple things of life so often taken for granted.  More than anything else, though, Jerry talks about God in Ain't God Good! (notice it's a declaratory fact, not a question).  Jerry was what you could call a lay preacher, and his very life was a testimony to his faith.<br /><br />The world will never see the likes of Jerry Clower again; he was probably the nation's last true humorist.  Lots of folks can tell funny stories, but Jerry Clower could (to borrow a thought from one of his friends) tell stories funny.  He's a man we can all still learn from and pattern our lives after, and this book is a true blessing in all sorts of ways.the family, friends and employers who inspired, supported, and loved him.  He can talk all day about his wife Homerline (also known as \\"that woman what lives with Mr. Clower\\") and his four children, and he devotes one chapter to the incredible responsibilities inherent in fatherhood.  This book is full of life lessons, especially when it comes to the simple things of life so often taken for granted.  More than anything else, though, Jerry talks about God in Ain't God Good! (notice it's a declaratory fact, not a question).  Jerry was what you could call a lay preacher, and his very life was a testimony to his faith.   <br /> <br />The world will never see the likes of Jerry Clower again; he was probably the nation's last true humorist.  Lots of folks can tell funny stories, but Jerry Clower could (to borrow a thought from one of his friends) tell stories funny.  He's a man we can all still learn from and pattern our lives after, and this book is a true blessing in all sorts of ways.	2005-07-23
155846:US	53016962	R1JZYQPAVAW8BW	B00010V5FI	418953915	Thirty minutes of Senate history : a series of thirty "historical minutes" presented to the Senate Democratic Conference, February-November 1997 (SuDoc Y 1.3:S.PUB.105-33)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Contains some very interesting tidbits of Senate history	Thirty Minutes of Senate History is a collection of short vignettes of Senate history as presented by Senate Historian Richard A. Baker to weekly meetings of the Senate Democratic Conference in 1997.  I was a little uncomfortable when I realized that this publication originated with the Democrats (I daresay this is the only thing I own with a foreword by Tom Daschle), but this is actually a pretty interesting little collection.  Certainly, Democrats figure more prominently than Republicans in these historical anecdotes, but it's really not a partisan publication (and the most recent \\"event\\" mentioned was way back in 1969).  There really are some fascinating facts lurking in these pages.<br /><br />Naturally, it begins with some of the formative moments of Senate history, including its somewhat inauspicious move to Washington, D.C. (to a then-unfinished building).  Many might be interested to learn that Senators came within one vote of establishing no salary whatsoever for themselves (Benjamin Franklin endorsed the idea of no salary because he thought it would help ensure that senators came from and represented the wealthy - folks still assume old B.F. was the consummate democrat, despite this and other proof).  Always fractious, the Senate had a spirited debate over the purchase of Thomas Jefferson's library to replace the books the British used to help burn down the Capitol in 1814 (it seems Jefferson had a few foreign books in his collection).  Did you know that one U.S. Senator has been killed in battle?  Senator Edward Dickinson Baker died at The Battle of Ball's Bluff in the early days of the War Between the States.  Perhaps the most fascinating story included here is that of the arrest of a reporter - by the Senate - in 1848 for failing to name the official who leaked a copy of the treaty with Mexico.  Held within Senate chambers and treated to dinner and a bed by the sergeant at arms each night, the reporter lived the life of Riley (and kept right on working - at double his salary) for the one month of his Senate imprisonment.<br /><br />Not surprisingly, some of the Senate stalwarts earned special mention among the 30 short presentations here - men such as Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun (but not, surprisingly, Henry Clay), as well as some powerful men basically forgotten over the years.  Of course, the caning of Senator Charles Sumner by Representative Preston Books earns an entry - and it actually talks about the incendiary and personally nasty Sumner speech that led to that tragedy.  Among all of the fascinating facts mentioned in these pages, however, is the description of California Senator Clair Engle, unable to speak because of a brain tumor, lifting a frail arm and pointing to his eye to indicate his Aye vote to help end the marathon Civil Rights filibuster of 1964 (following a fourteen and a half hour opposition speech by Robert Byrd).g - at double his salary) for the one month of his Senate imprisonment.  <br /> <br />Not surprisingly, some of the Senate stalwarts earned special mention among the 30 short presentations here - men such as Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun (but not, surprisingly, Henry Clay), as well as some powerful men basically forgotten over the years.  Of course, the caning of Senator Charles Sumner by Representative Preston Books earns an entry - and it actually talks about the incendiary and personally nasty Sumner speech that led to that tragedy.  Among all of the fascinating facts mentioned in these pages, however, is the description of California Senator Clair Engle, unable to speak because of a brain tumor, lifting a frail arm and pointing to his eye to indicate his Aye vote to help end the marathon Civil Rights filibuster of 1964 (following a fourteen and a half hour opposition speech by Robert Byrd).	2005-07-21
159894:US	53016962	R15WBZ4EMKBREH	B00010VUQW	949740142	The Senate Caucus Room (SuDoc Y 1.3:S.PUB.105-35)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A look at the design and history of the Caucus Room	If you've ever wondered (and I doubt anyone has) about the history of the Senate Caucus Room, this little government document is calling your name.  It discusses the construction of the Russell Senate Office Building, describes the architectural design of the Caucus Room, and provides a short bio on designers John Carrere and Thomas Hastings (both of whom, I was sad to learn, were educated in France and thus brought a distinctly French flavor to their otherwise classical design).  The Senate Office Building itself opened in 1909 (although the fourth side of the building would not be completed until 1933, strangely enough), and I was surprised to learn that senators didn't even have real offices prior to this.  Of course, the main focus here is the Senate Caucus Room.  This document gives you a little tour of the room's architecture and overall style (including some of the furniture), lets you take a gander at the original architectural design plans, and then goes on to discuss some of the historic events that have taken place in the room - including Senate investigations of the Titanic tragedy, the Teapot Dome Scandal, Pearl Harbor, Vietnam, and Watergate.  Prominent testimony regarding organized crime in the 1950s and 1960s as well as some of the McCarthy hearings also took place there.  Additionally, a number of senators have announced their candidacy for President in the Caucus Room (of those listed, only JFK went on to actually become President).  Interspersed throughout the text are photographs of the room itself, as well as photographs of (and a few cartoons about) some of the historic events held there.<br /><br />This government document is actually a fairly interesting read.  One of the photographs really caught my attention; it is a picture of Woodrow Wilson being blindfolded prior to drawing the first draft number of World War I - it looks as if he's getting ready to go before a firing squad.  All in all, I would much prefer my President to never be blindfolded - especially when surrounded by Senators.lindfolded - especially when surrounded by Senators.	2005-07-19
161423:US	53016962	R26XLNG3C8Z3GS	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Unbelievably fantastic and completely absorbing	Having just reread the entire Harry Potter series in preparation for Book Six, it seems like the time is now right for me to finally review Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.  To call the book fantastic is a gross understatement.  Without doubt, it is the most absorbing novel I've ever read - even on multiple readings.  It may be well over 800 pages, but it's still a quick read.  I'm betting most fans read this book in two days or less - you just can't put it down.  There were times when I wanted to throw it at something, though, just because so many awful things happen to these beloved characters over the course of Harry's fifth and - by far - most trying year at Hogwarts.  You sit there enraged, struggling to believe such awful events can possibly be happening, and you're quite powerless to do anything about it - except plow on, hoping for a proverbial break in the clouds.  At other times, I wanted to put down the book and cheer - especially for Fred and George and Professor McGonagall.  Heck, even Peeves had me cheering in this one.<br /><br />They're not lying when they call this a coming-of-age story.  Fifteen is a tough age for anyone, a sort of purgatory between childhood and adulthood, but for Harry it's uniquely unbearable.  He's just seen Cedric Diggory killed and barely escaped from a fully restored Lord Voldemort, and what happens?  He goes right into a wizarding deprivation tank on Privet Drive, with absolutely no word for weeks on end about what is going on.  Then Dementors attack him, and he's suddenly facing expulsion and a hearing before a council of grand wizards.  Once he is reunited with his friends and godfather, the adults still keep him in the dark - and he blows up, as well he should.  Knowing almost nothing about what the newly restored Order of the Phoenix is actually doing, he's then packed off to Hogwarts - where he is almost completely ignored by Professor Dumbledore.  The most unbelievable (and enraging) thing about all of this is the fact that Cornelius Fudge, the git running the Ministry of Magic, refuses to believe Voldemort has returned, and the Daily Prophet devotes the whole year to stories about the unbalanced, unstable Harry Potter and his attention-seeking claims.  Then, as if things couldn't get any worse, you have the arrival of Dolores Umbrage - easily the most hateful, infuriating character of the series - as Professor of Defense Against the Dark Arts and - in short order - High Inquisitor of Hogwarts.  Well, I won't go through the whole list, but Harry is really on his own more than ever this year - facing the largest obstacles imaginable.<br /><br />When I first read this novel, I felt that Harry was really just a little bit on the mean side during this fifth year at Hogwarts.  A second read shows me that I was wrong, however.  Harry is a teenager, in many ways a normal teenager despite his unique situation.  The whole relationship thing with Cho Chang, for example, is perfectly envisioned.  And the young man has a right to be mad - the fact that he even survived Hogwarts this year, let alone another encounter with Lord Voldemort, is darned impressive.  We really learned a lot about all of the characters in this book - Snape, in particular.  Good old Ron finally gets a few moments in the sun of his own, Neville emerges as a crucial character to the whole saga, and Hermione (my favorite character) is still her delightful self - except even more so.  And I love Luna Lovegood.<br /><br />I didn't think any book could be as good as The Goblet of Fire.  Now, I don't see how any book could be as good as Order of the Phoenix.  Knowing J.K. Rowling, though, I expect the best is yet to come.act that Cornelius Fudge, the git running the Ministry of Magic, refuses to believe Voldemort has returned, and the Daily Prophet devotes the whole year to stories about the unbalanced, unstable Harry Potter and his attention-seeking claims.  Then, as if things couldn't get any worse, you have the arrival of Dolores Umbrage - easily the most hateful, infuriating character of the series - as Professor of Defense Against the Dark Arts and - in short order - High Inquisitor of Hogwarts.  Well, I won't go through the whole list, but Harry is really on his own more than ever this year - facing the largest obstacles imaginable.    When I first read this novel, I felt that Harry was really just a little bit on the mean side during this fifth year at Hogwarts.  A second read shows me that I was wrong, however.  Harry is a teenager, in many ways a normal teenager despite his unique situation.  The whole relationship thing with Cho Chang, for example, is perfectly envisioned.  And the young man has a right to be mad - the fact that he even survived Hogwarts this year, let alone another encounter with Lord Voldemort, is darned impressive.  We really learned a lot about all of the characters in this book - Snape, in particular.  Good old Ron finally gets a few moments in the sun of his own, Neville emerges as a crucial character to the whole saga, and Hermione (my favorite character) is still her delightful self - except even more so.  And I love Luna Lovegood.      I didn't think any book could be as good as The Goblet of Fire.  Now, I don't see how any book could be as good as Order of the Phoenix.  Knowing J.K. Rowling, though, I expect the best is yet to come.	2005-07-18
162401:US	53016962	R381QU68UWU6J5	B00010XZ6K	607948535	The White House grounds and gardens, 1992-1996 (SuDoc I 29.2:W 58/3/992-996)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A detailed look at the White House grounds 1992-1996	Although it's not something I would ever really think about, the White House gardens are in fact a living monument, and all of the details about every tree, flower, shrub, etc., are recorded quite meticulously.  Since 1976 (through 1996, at least), it has been the habit of the U.S. government to produce government documents showing just how the gardens appeared throughout the course of each given administration.  This government document, covering the years 1992-1996, obviously describes the White House gardens as they existed during the first administration of President William Jefferson Clinton.  I should mention the size because the book is unusual in that regard; I'm not sure of the exact dimensions, but it's basically like legal paper size blown up to swelled proportions.<br /><br />The sheer amount of information is incredible.  First, you get a chronological listing of every change or addition made to the White House grounds during the specified years - some trees and plants succumb to disease, several suffer storm damage, and some are removed or replanted as a result of new construction.  The rest of the publication consists primarily of landscaping diagrams showing the location of virtually every living thing on the property, shown in conjunction to its position on the grounds.  All of the trees and shrubs are covered; not only can you see where they lie on the grounds, corresponding tables list each one's common and scientific names, along with the date of original planting (and removal, in some cases).  In the same fashion, you then get detailed garden and border details for the East Garden, West Garden, and Children's Garden.  Several photographs are included - including photographs of plaques in the Children's Garden - but these are all black and white and comparatively low in number.<br /><br />If you're a landscaping fanatic, The White House Grounds and Gardens publications will make you go all tingly.  It's not something I can get too excited about personally, but it is interesting to get a glimpse of the grandeur and history of the White House grounds - and the level of detail is really quite amazing.ut personally, but it is interesting to get a glimpse of the grandeur and history of the White House grounds - and the level of detail is really quite amazing.	2005-07-17
162950:US	53016962	R91ALNHHH624X	B00010U18A	991866137	Handling and maintaining the White House collection (SuDoc PR 42.2:W 58)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Helpful guidelines for handling all sorts of valuable objects	I don't know why, but I'm just fascinated with government documents.  This little booklet, Handling and Maintaining the White House Collection, is basically a guide published by The Ushers Office of The Office of the Curator in 1997 telling ushers how to treat objects in the White House Collection.  Basically, the message is Don't Touch Anything!, but the booklet lays out fairly detailed rules for handling and caring for the different kinds of objects in the White House collection - and those guidelines can be applied to almost any collection of valuable objects.<br /><br />This little booklet could actually be of use to anyone who deals with valuable objects.  Besides laying down basic guidelines, the guide goes into detail about the proper handling, cleaning, and transportation of art works; furniture; silver, vermeil, porcelain, and glass objects; draperies and upholsteries; rugs; and candelabra and candlesticks - with a little information on transporting objects to offsite storage thrown in on the side.  There are also a number of photos demonstrating the proper way of handling and moving most of the objects discussed.  Certainly, there's a limited audience for this particular document, but it does have some really good information for those interested.	2005-07-17
162961:US	53016962	R1MCPVOZGEB7C9	B00010DLMI	175719336	The White House grounds and gardens, 1988-1992 (SuDoc I 29.2:W 58/3/988-992)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A detailed look at the White House grounds 1988-1992	Although it's not something I would ever really think about, the White House gardens are in fact a living monument, and all of the details about every tree, flower, shrub, etc., are recorded quite meticulously.  Since 1976 (through 1996, at least), it has been the habit of the U.S. government to produce government documents showing just how the gardens appeared throughout the course of each given administration.  This government document, covering the years 1988-1992, obviously describes the White House gardens as they existed during the administration of President George Herbert Walker Bush.  I should mention the size because the book is unusual in that regard; I'm not sure of the exact dimensions, but it's basically like legal paper size blown up to swelled proportions.<br /><br />The sheer amount of information is incredible.  First, you get a chronological listing of every change or addition made to the White House grounds during the specified years - some trees and plants succumb to disease, several suffer storm damage, and some are removed or replanted as a result of new construction.  The rest of the publication consists primarily of landscaping diagrams showing the location of virtually every living thing on the property, shown in conjunction to its position on the grounds.  All of the trees and shrubs are covered; not only can you see where they lie on the grounds, corresponding tables list each one's common and scientific names, along with the date of original planting (and removal, in some cases).  In the same fashion, you then get detailed garden and border details for the East Garden, West Garden, and Children's Garden.  Several photographs are included - including photographs of plaques in the Children's Garden - but these are all black and white and comparatively low in number.<br /><br />If you're a landscaping fanatic, The White House Grounds and Gardens publications will make you go all tingly.  It's not something I can get too excited about personally, but it is interesting to get a glimpse of the grandeur and history of the White House grounds - and the level of detail is really quite amazing.rsonally, but it is interesting to get a glimpse of the grandeur and history of the White House grounds - and the level of detail is really quite amazing.	2005-07-17
164336:US	53016962	R2MKTBTEWKSJ1G	0756401941	215357459	The Dragon Circle: The Stargods #2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	With Book 2, this series finally finds its running shoes	In The Dragon Circle: The Stargods #2, Irene Radford delivers a more engaging story than that found in The Hidden Dragon: The Stargods #1, fleshing out the story significantly by bringing outsiders into the action and providing closer connections between the protagonists and the world they left behind.  Five months have passed since the O'Hara brothers, wanted smugglers just trying to earn enough money to regain their citizenship and help their Mum find their missing sister, made a blind jump to an uncharted system in a desperate attempt to escape close pursuit by the Imperial Military Police (IMPs).  They discovered a pristine world free of the pollution and biodomes of the Galactic Terran Empire, a local population of primitives descended from a long-ago colonization attempt, and actual, real-life dragons.  With months of repairs staring them in the face, the brothers set to work trying to provide for the villagers while defending their charges from the ruthless evil of a high priest borne of dragons.  As long as they kept this place a secret, they knew they could eventually make a fortune supplying bonafide natural foods to the mega-industrialized empire.  Rather quickly, they began to regard the planet as home, and the local villagers as their family and friends.  The villagers, for their part, looked upon the brothers as gods.<br /><br />Suddenly, their paradise is threatened by disaster when Konnor O'Hara discovers a hidden beacon inside his ship, placed there by his cruel megalomaniac of an ex-wife who seeks to keep him from returning to claim his son.  In short order, IMPs arrive in the system, and the peaceful brothers are forced to fight for the planet and people they have come to call their own.  Outnumbered and certainly outgunned, they must rely on the psychic powers they have developed during their time on this planet, their knowledge of the land, and the aid of two dragons.  These dragons, it must be said, are almost secondary to the story.  They are important, and it seems clear that their knowledge will be of life-changing importance at some point, but the first two books in The Stargods series should not be looked upon as traditional dragon-oriented works of fantasy.  The brothers must also deal with internal intrigue, as the high priest Hanassa, whom the brothers believed they killed in the first novel, proves to be as dangerous a threat as ever.<br /><br />Along with the IMPs who arrive in system with hostile intent are a couple of individuals of great importance to two of the three O'Hara brothers.  Konnor in particular seems to take center stage as the story develops, for he must leave this planet and return home within a matter of days if he is going to contest his ex-wife for custody of the son who knows him only as a summer councilor and not yet as a father.  Loki's character is also developed much more fully in this second novel of the series, however, as the most take-charge and seemingly calculated of the brothers finds love in the form of a native Tracker seemingly sent to the village to aid him in this time of crisis.  Kim, the most sensitive of the brothers, fades into the background at times, particularly as he grows more and more dependent on the psi-raising yet addictive effects of the local Tambootie plant.<br /><br />I felt as if something were missing in The Hidden Dragon, but whatever that something was, it is noticeably present in The Dragon Circle.  By connecting two of the brothers much more closely with their pasts, much more of a human side of their characters is revealed, and it is this human depth that makes this novel a much more satisfying read than its predecessor.  The action is also more consistent and intriguing here, as the struggles detailed in The Hidden Dragon were frustratingly repetitive.  Radford also manages to set the stage for at least one future novel very effectively in these pages.  Past, present, and future all seem to be in collision; much remains to be done, and many questions remain to be answered.  I for one eagerly await the third novel in The Stargods series.ne, and many questions remain to be answered.  I for one eagerly await the third novel in The Stargods series.	2005-07-16
164369:US	53016962	R1H11PO1S2JMCI	0761830367	65607949	The Hopes and Fears of Future Years: Loss and Creation: Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam: A Story of the Last Half of the Twentieth Century: A Quartet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A law school built on honesty and integrity?  It is possible	The Hopes and Fears of Future Years: Loss and Creation is the third novel in Lawrence R. Velvel's extraordinary Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam quartet.  With this series of novels, the author, dean of the Massachusetts School of Law, tries to identify the source of the problems that have festered and spread throughout American society since the middle of the twentieth century, starting with the legal profession.  Greed, immorality, a disregard for ethics, honor, and justice, and other troubling issues have formed a society of politicians who routinely lie, business executives whose crooked ways have led to increasing business scandals, judges who ignore the Constitution when it gets in the way of their own opinions, law schools built around engorging the riches of the faculty and administration rather than on preparing new generations of able lawyers, and basically a society that is just lawyered up to its very neck.  I don't agree with every single one of Velvel's opinions, but the man knows how to frame an argument, makes his points extremely well, and says the things that really need to be said about the problems in our legal system today.  It is just a remarkable breath of fresh air to hear a lawyer buck the all-powerful system and criticize those who have hijacked what should be a noble profession.<br /><br />The books in this series are essentially nonfiction novels, and Velvel proves himself adept at keeping his storytelling engaging - even as he shares details of the seemingly boring legal profession with us.  The first two novels explored the lives of two brilliant yet unfortunate young Jewish lawyers who encountered one grossly unfair setback after another yet persevered without betraying their ideals.  Truly, it is hard to be an honest lawyer, as Lionel Wolfe exemplifies.  This novel finds him on the brink of radical change.  Having been fired five times for grossly unfair reasons, he finally decides to escape the poisonous legal culture of Washington, D.C.  Despite some misgivings, he decides to accept the post of dean at Free State, a small and struggling little law school.  Despite some bad omens in the process of securing the job, he sets in to furiously prepare the law school for its crucial upcoming visit by the Board of Regents - while also continuing his work on a big-money case he has been involved with for several years.  Sadly, history repeats itself yet again for Wolfe.  Some of the school's students, however, float the balloon of their starting their own law school, and in unbelievably short order (seven months), the Northern New England Law School (NNELS) opens its doors to students for the first time.<br /><br />It was fascinating to see just how much work was involved in making NNELS a reality, but starting the school is really just the beginning.  Wolfe and his colleagues immediately go to work planning for their first inspection by the Board of Regents; a failed inspection would doom the school because it would be unable to grant law degrees or qualify its students to take the state bar exam.  The inspection process is nerve-wracking enough on its own, but Wolfe - naturally - faces almost insurmountable obstacles thanks to the corrupt president of Free State and a prominent politician who threatens to cut NNELS' inspection prospects off at the head.  Free State is extremely down but not out, and Wolfe finds himself greatly pressured to give in to a hypocritical politician's stubborn (and obviously greedy) desires to move the law school (be it Free State or NNELS) to a certain building in a neighboring town - despite the fact the location is run-down and in a seedy section of town.  It's impossible to describe all of the worries Wolfe endures throughout the whole long, drawn-out process of forming NNELS, keeping it afloat, and defending it against self-interested political assault - and all while maintaining the mission of the school to cater to those students traditionally excluded from the legal profession.  It's an amazing story that really draws you into every minor success and potentially devastating setback Wolfe encounters.  And, with this third book in the series, there is finally as much triumph as there is tragedy in the related events.<br /><br />This series just keeps getting better.  Velvel is a zealous proponent of legal reform, and his storytelling ability makes the Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam series of books the most effective way I know of for getting his points across to a larger audience.  Hopefully, many of those in the legal profession in particular will be exposed to these amazing nonfiction novels because, as Velvel makes clear beyond a shadow of a doubt, the legal system is in dire need of reform.  You might expect dry, boring writing from an academic lawyer, but Velvel is all about breaking through stereotypes.  These books need and deserve to be read.al profession.  It's an amazing story that really draws you into every minor success and potentially devastating setback Wolfe encounters.  And, with this third book in the series, there is finally as much triumph as there is tragedy in the related events. <br /> <br />This series just keeps getting better.  Velvel is a zealous proponent of legal reform, and his storytelling ability makes the Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam series of books the most effective way I know of for getting his points across to a larger audience.  Hopefully, many of those in the legal profession in particular will be exposed to these amazing nonfiction novels because, as Velvel makes clear beyond a shadow of a doubt, the legal system is in dire need of reform.  You might expect dry, boring writing from an academic lawyer, but Velvel is all about breaking through stereotypes.  These books need and deserve to be read.	2005-07-16
169236:US	53016962	RX95NQWDRGGYR	0743492609	277827243	The Painted Kiss: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An exquisite, mesmerizing work of historical fiction	The Painted Kiss is a truly exquisite novel and a most impressive debut by author Elizabeth Hickey.  While I do read a good bit of historical fiction, most of what I read is built around historical events; this novel, though, is intensely personal, an imagined account of the unusual relationship between artist Gustav Klimt and the younger Emilie Floge (who became a successful fashion designer in Vienna).  The cover art depicts Klimt's 1902 portrait of Emilie, and a number of Klimt's best-known artistic creations inform the narrative of this wonderfully lush work of modern literature.  It is in some ways a disturbing read, as the relationship under the microscope is far from ideal, and the reader cannot help but sympathize greatly with Emilie as her character narrates the story from her first meeting with Klimt as a curious 12-year-old girl to Klimt's death and beyond, culminating in 1945 war-torn Austria.  As I mentioned, I don't normally read novels of this type, and I must say that I was mesmerized by the entire story.  Hickey is an artist in her own right, an artist of words, and she captures Emilie's soul as deeply and hypnotically as any portrait ever could, including the haunting portrait that graces the cover.<br /><br />I know next to nothing about art, so I found this book's story of Viennese art history in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century most informative.  The author works many of Gustav Klimt's portraits, and the women who posed for them, into the novel, and I would encourage the reader to seek out the images of these portraits online or in art gallery books - Klimt's actual historical portraits make for the most vivid of visual aids when it comes to immersing yourself in this story.  Hickey has done an impressive job researching the principals as well as Viennese society and its surprisingly complex culture of artists.  Along with Klimt, you also meet two of his prot&eacute;g&eacute;s in the art nouveau Viennese movement, Egon Schiele and Oskar Kokoschka.  The proclivity of these artists to paint nude women made them controversial artists, and Klimt further established his reputation by pioneering the Secession Movement in Vienna.<br /><br />Emilie Floge first met the older Klimt as a 12-year-old, and she was less than excited when her father arranged for her to take art lessons from the poor, unknown artist.  She and her sister Helene were exposed to a completely new world in his art studio, and Emilie inevitably fell in love or something much like it with Klimt.  He returned her feelings in an unquantifiable manner, but even Emilie realized fairly early on that he was a philanderer who did more than merely paint many of the society ladies who posed for portraits with him.  It was a dysfunctional relationship between a man who would never commit or change his ways and a self-conscious young lady who could never pull away from his influence.  It's generally understood that Emilie was Klimt's mistress, but their relationship, as represented in The Painted Kiss, is much more complicated than that; sex actually plays a minor (albeit disturbing) part in their relationship as imagined by Elizabeth Hickey.  Emilie is a fascinating character in her own right, enjoying great success as a fashion designer in Vienna and maintaining a place in society despite the open secret of her personal relationship with Klimt.  Even twenty-seven years after his death, in the midst of the travails of 1945 Austria, Klimt still dominates the life of Emilie.<br /><br />The artist does the reader a service by mentioning several of the changes she made in the historical facts of her subjects' lives.  It can't be easy creating a story around a relationship when history records very little of the details, and I think Hickey has done a masterful job.  While I never came to completely understand the motivations of the two main characters, I was perpetually mesmerized by the story that played out before me.  This novel inevitably draws comparisons to Girl With a Pearl Earring; not having read that novel, I can't compare the two.  I can, however, declare that The Painted Kiss is an incredibly rich, perfectly enchanting work of modern literature that I found absorbing and truly magnificent.arl Earring; not having read that novel, I can't compare the two.  I can, however, declare that The Painted Kiss is an incredibly rich, perfectly enchanting work of modern literature that I found absorbing and truly magnificent.	2005-07-12
169590:US	53016962	R1ZW8ABAR2S155	1413764908	696675152	A Broken Charity: The Rise and Fall of the Jewish Educational Center	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The story behind the story of the JEC debacle	The downfall of the Jewish Educational Center may have made national headlines, but I was completely unfamiliar with this particular charity and its many, self-defeating problems.  Reading about the related events from the perspective of the author, I'm left shaking my head at the level of gross incompetence and outright fraud perpetuated by the leaders of this once-respectable charity.  Jack E. George served as the administrator of Schneerson Hebrew Day School, which operated under the auspices of the Jewish Educational Center and depended upon charity in order to hold classes that included the children of many poor Russian immigrants in the San Francisco area.  George explains the debacle of the charity's downfall and the dissolution of the school from his viewpoint, one which lacked true knowledge of what was going on much of the time.  With all of the court cases against Rabbi Bentzion Pil settled, he was apparently free to tell the story as he knew and lived it.<br /><br />Until the morning George discovered that payroll checks were not forthcoming because the IRS had raided the offices of the JEC, the charity seemed to be quite successful.  It had, among other things, pioneered the project of receiving donated cars and other materials, selling them for a profit, and using that money to fund the charity.  Such charity auctions were bringing in millions of dollars a year.  Not only was the IRS investigating the JEC, though, the state attorney general's office and other agencies were as well.  Initially, George sees no reason to doubt the assurances provided employees by Rabbi Pil and his wife, but it doesn't take him long to discover that the JEC is in a real mess of its own creation.  The books were so incomplete as to make an accountant shed tears, a lot of cash money coming in was not even recorded, and - as the feds had already discovered - financial records showed much more money coming in than going out.  George's interest is in saving the school, but he becomes increasingly privy to what is going on with the JEC and the ongoing investigations into its business practices.  He sticks with the school through thick and skin, trying to save it in any form - eventually, it does open elsewhere under a new name, and George is troubled to see the litany of past recordkeeping mistakes continue unabated.  George describes the struggle to keep the school doors open while dealing with the constantly troubling and sometimes contradictory instructions of those controlling the JEC and its successor organization.<br /><br />There is a certain amount of ambiguity to the whole story.  It's never made abundantly clear whether the whole case is one of shoddy record-keeping or outright criminal behavior.  It would seem to be a great deal of both.  Rabbi Pil himself eventually paid a legal price for wrongdoing, yet it's not clear just how extensive his questionable business practices were.  As for George, I hardly pulled for or against him, largely because the book is, by editorial design, predominantly objective in nature.  With the author having excised many of his personal feelings about the matters he discusses, it's hard to inject yourself into his struggles.  Of course, had he made the book personal, his motives and designs would have been called into question.<br /><br />A Broken Charity stands as a valuable object lesson for those involved in charitable organizations, stressing the necessary ethical foundation and sound business model required for those at the top and encouraging individuals to try and learn as much as possible about the organizations seeking their contributions.  The story of the Jewish Educational Center is truly a tragic tale, and it serves as a vivid reminder that there are always some truly committed, humanitarian individuals made to suffer the most in even the most scandalous of financial meltdowns.becomes increasingly privy to what is going on with the JEC and the ongoing investigations into its business practices.  He sticks with the school through thick and skin, trying to save it in any form - eventually, it does open elsewhere under a new name, and George is troubled to see the litany of past recordkeeping mistakes continue unabated.  George describes the struggle to keep the school doors open while dealing with the constantly troubling and sometimes contradictory instructions of those controlling the JEC and its successor organization.    <br /> <br />There is a certain amount of ambiguity to the whole story.  It's never made abundantly clear whether the whole case is one of shoddy record-keeping or outright criminal behavior.  It would seem to be a great deal of both.  Rabbi Pil himself eventually paid a legal price for wrongdoing, yet it's not clear just how extensive his questionable business practices were.  As for George, I hardly pulled for or against him, largely because the book is, by editorial design, predominantly objective in nature.  With the author having excised many of his personal feelings about the matters he discusses, it's hard to inject yourself into his struggles.  Of course, had he made the book personal, his motives and designs would have been called into question. <br /> <br />A Broken Charity stands as a valuable object lesson for those involved in charitable organizations, stressing the necessary ethical foundation and sound business model required for those at the top and encouraging individuals to try and learn as much as possible about the organizations seeking their contributions.  The story of the Jewish Educational Center is truly a tragic tale, and it serves as a vivid reminder that there are always some truly committed, humanitarian individuals made to suffer the most in even the most scandalous of financial meltdowns.	2005-07-12
171037:US	53016962	R1SKMAS8H5F0FL	0595341632	194154484	Love in the Time of the Apocalypse	Books	5	8	8	N	N	And a quirky, satirical, witty, surreal apocalypse it was	The first word that comes to mind in describing Gregory Blecha's Love in the Time of the Apocalypse is unique.  Surreal and farcical on the one hand, satirical and poignant on the other, this novel follows its own drum of apocalyptic imaginings.  If you have any preconceived notions about where this story will take you, you might as well leave them at the door, as Blecha will undoubtedly surprise you one way or another.  This isn't Left Behind, nor is it a soporific recitation of man's ills in a hopelessly maudlin, post-apocalyptic setting.  The writing is sharp and oftentimes pointedly funny, and no Four Horsemen come plodding in to overshadow the main character's personable manner of dealing with monumental change.<br /><br />Economic collapse has led to the disintegration of American society into several radical spheres: Southern agrarians, Pentecostals aligned with the Aryan Nation, a welfare queen system in the east, eco-terrorists running amuck, etc.  It's a mess, but life isn't all that bad for our protagonist, Bryan.  When we meet him, he's enjoying a vacation with his girlfriend Char and some friends at an Amish casino in Las Vegas (yes, the Amish staff are rather ichthyne in appearance thanks to some unbridled genetic experimentation, but try not to stare).  Bryan has no idea that he's about to become one of the most wanted men in what is left of America.  In the wake of a spat with his girlfriend, he finds himself kidnapped by the Aryan Nation/Church of the Creator; here, he first learns of his possible supposed importance, but he can't figure out what is really going on.  Even the Feds are after him, launching an attack on his captors which allows him to escape across a river.  In time, he survives two weeks in solitary confinement, falls into the hands of the Earth Liberation group (who are intent on defaming or destroying everything resembling an American monument), survives a helicopter crash only to be captured by a drugged child army, falls into the clutches of some extreme scientific researchers, and finally, after a lot more trials and tribulations find outs the truth about himself (a truth that almost everyone seems to already know except for him).  The ending takes something of a strange turn, but it's a perfectly fitting conclusion that does answer all of the questions generated by the story's numerously disparate elements.<br /><br />On the surface, especially in the opening chapters, Love in the Time of the Apocalypse reads primarily as a comedy, and the author indeed fills the entire book with great wit and light-hearted moments.  The novel definitely has its serious overtones, however.  The fractured American society of the story is in some ways a distorted mirror image of American society today, one which could well come with a notice saying the images appearing in this mirror are closer than they may appear.  I would not take this notion too far myself, however, as I think Blecha's true subject matter is human nature more than it is economics, government, or the social structures of society.  Love is a word which features prominently in the title, but the very notion of love seems to me to be a secondary aspect of this novel.  Bryan does indeed love his girlfriend Char, which he proves by resisting a number of randy women who accost him during his increasingly surreal adventures, but I personally would not think of this novel in terms of a love story.<br /><br />Basically, Love in the Time of the Apocalypse is a refreshingly sharp and singular novel that is impossible to encapsulate in the form of a review.  No religious conviction is required because this is not that kind of apocalyptic story.  With its quick pace, wonderful narrative flow, and propensity to surprise the reader at several turns, this is definitely a book worth many a reader's time and attention.s of some extreme scientific researchers, and finally, after a lot more trials and tribulations find outs the truth about himself (a truth that almost everyone seems to already know except for him).  The ending takes something of a strange turn, but it's a perfectly fitting conclusion that does answer all of the questions generated by the story's numerously disparate elements.    On the surface, especially in the opening chapters, Love in the Time of the Apocalypse reads primarily as a comedy, and the author indeed fills the entire book with great wit and light-hearted moments.  The novel definitely has its serious overtones, however.  The fractured American society of the story is in some ways a distorted mirror image of American society today, one which could well come with a notice saying the images appearing in this mirror are closer than they may appear.  I would not take this notion too far myself, however, as I think Blecha's true subject matter is human nature more than it is economics, government, or the social structures of society.  Love is a word which features prominently in the title, but the very notion of love seems to me to be a secondary aspect of this novel.  Bryan does indeed love his girlfriend Char, which he proves by resisting a number of randy women who accost him during his increasingly surreal adventures, but I personally would not think of this novel in terms of a love story.      Basically, Love in the Time of the Apocalypse is a refreshingly sharp and singular novel that is impossible to encapsulate in the form of a review.  No religious conviction is required because this is not that kind of apocalyptic story.  With its quick pace, wonderful narrative flow, and propensity to surprise the reader at several turns, this is definitely a book worth many a reader's time and attention.	2005-07-11
178489:US	53016962	R294NBOW17NA43	0595339565	277765195	Jannaway's Mutiny	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A masterful work of historical fiction	Some trace the unofficial end of the British Empire to the mass mutiny among sailors of the Royal Navy's Atlantic Fleet at Invergordon, Scotland in September 1931.  Struggling to deal with the worsening depression, the government sought to institute cuts across the board (in the public sector as well as the navy).  While a 10% cut was a terrible burden for the lowest-paid ratings, those who had joined up before 1925 (and were on a different pay scale) essentially faced a 25% cut.  Such a sacrifice would inevitably lead to not only hardship but probable homelessness for the sailors' families, and so the decision was made to organize a mass strike.  The mutiny was rather remarkable in its civility, as the mutineers treated officers with deference and continued to carry out essential duties - they basically just prevented their ships from going to sea.  The end result was a victory for the strikers, in that those on the old pay rate received only a 10% pay cut like everyone else, but the mutiny had long-lasting repercussions.  A month later, Britain abandoned the gold standard, and a name change from the Atlantic Fleet to the Home Fleet a month later began an effort to put the embarrassing incident behind the Royal Navy.<br /><br />Jannaway's Mutiny is a wonderfully human story that examines some of the causes of the mutiny, but more than anything it is a story of love and loss, class conflict, and contrasting sides of human nature - built around the life and career of a naval officer who finds himself somewhat at the focus of the mutiny.  It is not Jannaway's mutiny per se, but he can certainly be seen as one revealing face behind the conflict that played out at Invergordon.  Frank Jannaway was an officer, but he had come up the hard way - from the lower decks, and he had - in fact - been forced to join the Navy in the first place.  Living with his mother on the estate of Sir Jervis Yarrow, Frank had been given the opportunity to study at a good school and develop his impressive musical skills - until Yarrow's daughter took an interest in him.  Since any kind of relationship between Sir Jervis' daughter and his housekeeper's son simply would not do, Jannaway was quickly hustled into the Navy.  Before that, he had already suffered much at the hands of Yarrow's arrogant son Roddy - and on one occasion, he had in fact been molested by the older boy.  As luck would have it, Jannaway eventually ended up serving under Captain Yarrow on board the HMS Winchester, where he (like everyone else on board) was bullied and, following one tragedy, wrongly blamed for an incident which took the live of an old schoolmate.  The men below liked and respected Jannaway, however, and he learned of the mutiny plans prior to the general strike; while he, as an officer, could take no part in such a display, he did play an integral role in how it came about and how it was handled.<br /><br />Over the course of this historical novel, we follow the lives of Jannaway, Roddy Yarrow - and Anita Yarrow.  Anita's fancy for Jannaway led to his forced entry into the Navy, and she went on to somewhat disgrace her father with a failed marriage to an awful bugger of a man.  Exiled to Malta, she is delighted to meet up with Jannaway again, and the two quickly fall in love.  It is a love affair that Anita abruptly ends during their engagement period - ostensibly because Jannaway is not of her class but in truth for a very different reason - one she could not possibly tell him.  And so it was that Jannaway remained in the Navy and came to serve under Roddy Yarrow at Invergordon.<br /><br />Frankly, I was surprised at just how engrossing a read this turned out to be.  The events of the mutiny itself pale in comparison to the ups and downs of these characters' lives, and the whole story reveals a great deal about class consciousness and society in early-20th century England.  Charles Gidley Wheeler has really given us a fabulous work of historical fiction here, and I giveJannaway's Mutiny nothing less than my highest recommendation.thing less than my highest recommendation.	2005-07-06
180871:US	53016962	R2OY3BJX3CLK1N	0811816494	757019148	Goblin Market	Books	5	43	49	N	N	Beautiful, sensual, and subject to infinite interpretation	Goblin Market, a verse fairy tale that was first published in 1862, is a rather fascinating piece of masterful poetry.  It tells a wonderfully sensuous tale that has inspired a myriad of interpretations.  I've spent more time reading about Goblin Market than I did actually reading it - savoring it, rather, for it really calls for a much more personal treatment than a mere reading.  This pre-Raphaelite work harbors latent eroticism that echoes with both renunciation and desire.  Thus, some term it a work of repressed Victorian eroticism and grin knowingly (and leeringly) as they recount the fact that Goblin Market was quite a popular children's fairy tale in its day.  Christine Rossetti was herself a recluse along the lines of Emily Dickinson, allowing her heart to sing freely even as she kept herself separated from any possible objects of her latent desires.<br /><br />In the poem, one sister gives in to the temptation of the forbidden fruit offered by the dark goblins forever lurking in the twilight to seduce their victims to a first taste of their exotic wares.  The desire to obtain more of the passion fruit overtakes her young life, yet the goblins appear to her no more; as a result, she begins to waste away near to death.  At this point, her sister, who sensibly avoided temptation, willingly seeks to bargain with the goblins, only to have them force their juicy wares upon her.  The fruity residue is enough, however, to revive her sister.  The act of salvation is obviously the juiciest part of the story on a number of levels - such a sensual act between sisters, with lines such as \\"Hug me, kiss me, suck my juices\\" and \\"Eat me, drink me, love me,\\" cries out for interpretation of all kinds - and those quick to criticize the hypocritical prudishness of Victorian society have a veritable field day with it.<br /><br />Some say this is not a poem for children's ears?  Balderdash.  Like any masterful work of poetry, Goblin Market can be read and interpreted on many levels.  Children will delight in its lyrical rhyming patterns, its allusions to wee goblins hawking the most delicious of fruits, and interpret the salvation of the tempted sister in comparatively innocent terms.  I say leave the interpretations to the adults.  And what interpretations there are of this lengthy poem.  Some see in it a recreation of the genesis story, a story of sacrifice and redemption, a tale of lesbian yearning, a declaration of the power of sisterhood, a commentary on women as commodities in market society, evidence of sexual molestation by Rossetti's father, etc.  There's no limit to the interpretations put forth about what is, on the surface, an engaging fairy tale set to verse.<br /><br />This is a fascinating work of lyrical poetry that can be read fairly quickly yet will sustain your interest through multiple readings, all sorts of fascinating research into analysis and interpretation, and just plain wonderment.  As sensual as it is beautiful, Goblin Market is probably one of the most fascinating and insightful products of Victorian literature.any levels.  Children will delight in its lyrical rhyming patterns, its allusions to wee goblins hawking the most delicious of fruits, and interpret the salvation of the tempted sister in comparatively innocent terms.  I say leave the interpretations to the adults.  And what interpretations there are of this lengthy poem.  Some see in it a recreation of the genesis story, a story of sacrifice and redemption, a tale of lesbian yearning, a declaration of the power of sisterhood, a commentary on women as commodities in market society, evidence of sexual molestation by Rossetti's father, etc.  There's no limit to the interpretations put forth about what is, on the surface, an engaging fairy tale set to verse.   <br /> <br />This is a fascinating work of lyrical poetry that can be read fairly quickly yet will sustain your interest through multiple readings, all sorts of fascinating research into analysis and interpretation, and just plain wonderment.  As sensual as it is beautiful, Goblin Market is probably one of the most fascinating and insightful products of Victorian literature.	2005-07-04
181338:US	53016962	R15DFHB5M4XL1S	1593301596	816341345	The Empire Menaced: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Dearth Nadir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Much more than a mere dark comedy spoof	In all honesty, I'm not exactly sure what my reaction to this book is.  By rights it is a satirical take on Darth Vader's personal story, but it seemed to move beyond this, particularly in the later stages of the book, to some kind of psychological and sociological diatribe replete with dark insight and meaning - far removed from standard spoof material.  In its way, The Empire Menaced is a quite an intellectual tome.  I have a pretty extensive vocabulary, and there were several occasions upon which I had to reread a paragraph to try and get some handle on what the author was trying to say with the kind of words you only find in a dictionary.<br /><br />The premise of the novel is that Dearth Nadir, in the interest of telling his own story, actually managed to manifest himself into some kind of electronic submission that ultimately found residence in the Earth's Internet (although he later took over the body of some poor software programming dope).  Thus, he knows all about our culture - and he had a hand in George Lucas' representations of a certain space opera.  Lucas didn't get a lot of things right, though, and he definitely sugarcoated some of the less savory aspects of the story.  (Surprisingly, though, Nadir does not complain about the fact that a talentless actor was chosen to play him as a young Jeteye.)  In Dearth's illuminating auto-biography, we learn that Queen, then Senator, Mandala was a lusty wench who sexually abused young Dearth as a child (it was no less than \\"a harrowingly premature exposure to the Sartrean Hole\\"), his old master W'at'O was apparently an Islamic jihadist, Chi-Gong had something going with his mother, and Kobe-San was not quite the man we thought he was.  Nadir's whole romance with Mandala began as an act of revenge against her rapacious treatment of him as a lad.  As for Jug Jug, he is in fact the ultimate black caricature - but he's only doing it for show.  Dearth's turn to the Dark Side cannot be distilled down to one point, and he basically declares the subject closed by equating his suffering with the recalcitrant evil that now dominates his worldview.  One thing is certain, though: he's no boot-scraping sycophant of the Emperor.  Most of his hatred seems to be directed inward, although Dearth's darkest passions all seemed wrapped up in his relationship with Mandala.<br /><br />The actual transformation from the promising young Jeteye to Dearth Nadir is far different than anything conveyed by Lucas' films (of course, one must also keep in mind that this book was published a year before Episode III hit the screen), and it is interesting that the man behind the mask, so to speak, represents the self-image of the newly turned Jeteye traitor.  I'm afraid the point of the book was somewhat lost for me in the concluding chapters, however, as Dearth wallows in the memories of his lusty relationship with Mandala (this book is definitely not for children, I should note).  Dearth becomes the equivalent of the patient on the couch who, forgetting the very presence of his therapist, gushes forth with uninhibited descriptions of the subject matter, all sorts of emotional self-analyses, and ruminations on the debilitating emotional effects of family and heredity.<br /><br />This is a book that, depending upon your level of devotion to the Star Wars saga, you will quite likely either love or hate.  Ironically, I find myself somewhere in the middle.  As I mentioned, it's hard for me to pin this book down; what started out as a brilliant little spoof eventually took on sociological aspects that sometimes confused me.  Of course, this very aspect of the book also distinguishes it from the ubiquitous nature of the traditional spoof.  In the author's hands, this becomes nothing less than a philosophical study of life and truth, a sociological treatment of society and the individual, and far more than the general reader expecting a dark comedy spoof may expect from the experience.basically declares the subject closed by equating his suffering with the recalcitrant evil that now dominates his worldview.  One thing is certain, though: he's no boot-scraping sycophant of the Emperor.  Most of his hatred seems to be directed inward, although Dearth's darkest passions all seemed wrapped up in his relationship with Mandala.      The actual transformation from the promising young Jeteye to Dearth Nadir is far different than anything conveyed by Lucas' films (of course, one must also keep in mind that this book was published a year before Episode III hit the screen), and it is interesting that the man behind the mask, so to speak, represents the self-image of the newly turned Jeteye traitor.  I'm afraid the point of the book was somewhat lost for me in the concluding chapters, however, as Dearth wallows in the memories of his lusty relationship with Mandala (this book is definitely not for children, I should note).  Dearth becomes the equivalent of the patient on the couch who, forgetting the very presence of his therapist, gushes forth with uninhibited descriptions of the subject matter, all sorts of emotional self-analyses, and ruminations on the debilitating emotional effects of family and heredity.      This is a book that, depending upon your level of devotion to the Star Wars saga, you will quite likely either love or hate.  Ironically, I find myself somewhere in the middle.  As I mentioned, it's hard for me to pin this book down; what started out as a brilliant little spoof eventually took on sociological aspects that sometimes confused me.  Of course, this very aspect of the book also distinguishes it from the ubiquitous nature of the traditional spoof.  In the author's hands, this becomes nothing less than a philosophical study of life and truth, a sociological treatment of society and the individual, and far more than the general reader expecting a dark comedy spoof may expect from the experience.	2005-07-04
190454:US	53016962	R2G35SZ1QMOYY5	0761827595	102763348	Trail of Tears: Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam: A Story of the Last Half of the Twentieth Century: A Quartet (Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam, a Quartet, Volume 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	No good deed goes unpunished in America's legal system	Like Misfits in America, the first volume of Lawrence Velvel's Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam quartet, Trail of Tears attempts to show what has gone terribly wrong in the American legal system in the latter half of the twentieth-century and how the problem has spread throughout American culture.  I must make the point that Velvel is not writing tragedy; as bad and intractable as he shows relevant matters to be, his writing is infused with the optimism of a man still committed to realizing the American Dream, and his characters are paragons of virtue who refuse to betray their ideals - no matter how badly they suffer from their commitment to honesty and morality.  Trail of Tears, even more than Misfits in America, basically shows that no good deed goes unpunished in the America of today.  Success comes to those who are greedy, immoral, unethical, always prepared to stab anyone in the back to further their own interests.  What has taken place in the legal profession has spread throughout the entire culture, Velvel laments, giving us crooked lawyers, business scandals of the worst sort, judges who ignore their constitutional duties, a government that can no longer be trusted, and presidents who commit immoral acts and \\"lawyer\\" their way out of them when they get caught.  The problem is endemic, but Velvel is doing something to facilitate change in his role as dean of the Massachusetts School of Law (geared toward those too often denied the ability to study law) and as the author of this compelling series of books.<br /><br />Trail of Tears centers on the career of Lionel Wolfe, a character we became somewhat familiar with in Misfits in America.  Wolfe's career is one of such injustice that the reader cannot help but be enraged at the undue suffering this good man if forced to endure.  Like Harry Brohnz, the protagonist of Misfits in America, Wolfe emerges from law school with his home-grown commitment to honesty and social justice intact (despite his Michigan professors' best efforts to purge him of all ethical thoughts).  He still believes that hard work and upright behavior lead to success, and he cannot betray his ideals, no matter how obvious it becomes that they stand as huge impediments to his career.  Over the course of that career, we seem him punished for his hard work and commitment time and time again.<br /><br />Wolfe leaves the Department of Justice to take an academic position at a small D.C. law school.  Having taken the dean at his word, he is appalled to soon find himself stuck at a law school seemingly determined to remain mediocre (despite the dean's promises), struggling to support a growing family on a low-paying salary (without promised raises) and abysmal health insurance.  A few years later, he is in line to become the new dean of the law school, eager to take the steps necessary to improve it, when he is turned down at the last minute because he is Jewish.  Forced to seek part-time work to supplement his paltry salary, Wolfe finds work at several area law firms over the years.  Each time, he meets with much success and actually puts in more hours than each firm's full-time lawyers, only to be fired for the most unethical of reasons: his superiors are jealous of his knowledge and talent, he is too honest, a secret cabal of partners does not like him, etc.<br /><br />As one of the first lawyers to pursue antitrust work, Wolfe is a valuable asset everywhere he works, and he meets with great success in the cases he works on.  He eventually leaves the academic world altogether to become a partner in a well-established law firm.  After his greatest trial success, however, he finds himself demoted and then effectively fired (and in those days, partners simply were not fired or forced out) - his biggest mistake, it turned out, was actually handing over all of the documents the opposing side asked for in discovery.  In the perverted legal system of the last few decades, this is a big no-no.  Clients and lawyers simply hide any relevant material they don't want the other side to see.  Wolfe's turbulent career also introduced him to all sorts of unethical behavior such as the practice of overcharging clients, hiring lawyers under false pretences, and putting power in the hands of secret cabals who make decisions based on their own self-interests.<br /><br />Wolfe's story is truly a tragic - and infuriating - one.  He suffers the ignominy of being fired four times, each time for unethical reasons and despite his personal success and commitment.  Time and again, he is left scrambling to support his family while most of his fellow lawyers, schmoozers and liars all, are simply rolling in dough.  By the end of this book, his spirit is almost broken.<br /><br />One should not look for answers as to what is to be done in the first two books of this series.  In Misfits in America and Trail of Tears, Velvel has shown his readers what is wrong, how bad things are, and how the American Dream was perverted so sickeningly.  I daresay he has been amazingly effective at proving his case and showing how all Americans suffer from this culture of elitism, unethical behavior, and unpunished criminal behavior.  The next two books in the series will address conditions for change, as Wolfe (like Velvel himself) does what he can to change the pervading culture by co-founding a new law school (which places him in direct conflict with the pervading legal culture of elitism and unethical behavior).aterial they don't want the other side to see.  Wolfe's turbulent career also introduced him to all sorts of unethical behavior such as the practice of overcharging clients, hiring lawyers under false pretences, and putting power in the hands of secret cabals who make decisions based on their own self-interests.    Wolfe's story is truly a tragic - and infuriating - one.  He suffers the ignominy of being fired four times, each time for unethical reasons and despite his personal success and commitment.  Time and again, he is left scrambling to support his family while most of his fellow lawyers, schmoozers and liars all, are simply rolling in dough.  By the end of this book, his spirit is almost broken.    One should not look for answers as to what is to be done in the first two books of this series.  In Misfits in America and Trail of Tears, Velvel has shown his readers what is wrong, how bad things are, and how the American Dream was perverted so sickeningly.  I daresay he has been amazingly effective at proving his case and showing how all Americans suffer from this culture of elitism, unethical behavior, and unpunished criminal behavior.  The next two books in the series will address conditions for change, as Wolfe (like Velvel himself) does what he can to change the pervading culture by co-founding a new law school (which places him in direct conflict with the pervading legal culture of elitism and unethical behavior).	2005-06-26
191711:US	53016962	R2MLH7LERF3IP4	0764227955	822690195	The Shadow Within (Legends of the Guardian-King, Book 2)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Christian fantasy at its most enthralling, absolute best	This is only Karen Hancock's third published novel, but she's already my favorite writer of both Christian fiction and fantasy; a few more books as incredible as The Shadow Within, and she may just become my favorite writer period.  I don't really want you to think of this book as Christian fiction, though; certainly, the foundation of the story is built upon Christian allegory, but you don't have to be a Christian in order to enjoy this rich, action-packed, emotionally poignant story.  This is fantasy at its best, with extraordinarily compelling characters populating a vibrant, amazingly realistic environment - and Hancock is a remarkably talented storyteller.<br /><br />In The Light of Eidon, the first book in the Legends of the Guardian-King series, readers were transported to a mediaeval fantasy world marked by religious and political conflict.  There we met Abramm Kalladorne, the fifth son of the king of Kiriath, a seemingly weak branch on a noble family tree of warrior kings.  To the shame of his family, he had pursued a life of service to the god Eidon; then, just as he was set to rise from novitiate to full member of the Mataion order, his whole world came completely unraveled.  He discovered that his spiritual mentor of eight years was using him as a means to secure power for himself, and then his own brother sold him into slavery among barbarians in the southern kingdom of Esurh.  The weak and passive young man developed into a gladiator of great renown, saved a kingdom by defeating a great source of evil in the land, and eventually found a new purpose in life by accepting the \\"heretical\\" Terstan faith.<br /><br />In this, book two of the series, Abramm returns to Kiriath to claim the throne that should, by all rights, be his.  The action starts out hot and heavy, with Abramm attempting to kill the kraggin, a gigantic sea monster terrorizing the bay outside the capital.  This helps him win over a number of men to his side, and he does the improbable by successfully displacing his inferior older brother on the throne.  Having become king, Abramm now faces an even bigger challenge - holding on to the throne.  His brother Gillard is determined to seize power back into his own hands; many important lords are suspicious of Abramm's motives, fearing he will allow the Mataio to begin a purge of heretics and nonbelievers in the land; hired assassins lie in wait to end his reign quickly; and his old enemy among the holy Guardians of the Red Flame vows to destroy the new king by whatever means necessary.  Abramm's greatest struggle is with himself, however.  He wants nothing more than to reveal the golden shield upon his chest that marks him as a Terstan, but he has to hide his religious beliefs for fear that he would be branded a heretic and stripped of everything he holds dear.  As one crisis after another arises, he struggles to understand Eidon's plans for him, seeking his god's guidance in doing the right thing for his friends and subjects.  His faith in Eidon is put to the ultimate test, pitting him against his own brother as well as a supernatural creature made for the sole purpose of destroying him, and this makes for a shockingly impressive ending.<br /><br />Hancock's skills at characterization are virtually unsurpassed.  Abramm himself is a man of profound depth and feeling.  Even as he struggles to put all of his trust in Eidon, though, his sister Carissa, who spent two years trying to rescue him from slavery and then turned her back on him when he accepted the Terstan faith, finds herself compelled to come to terms with the Shadow of religious doubt that has alienated her from her family, her friends, and her God.  Her journey toward truth offers a great counter-point to Abramm's struggle to give himself over completely to Eidon's strength and protection.  Even minor characters come completely to life in Hancock's able hands.  The uncle whom Abramm must somehow win over to his cause serves to focus the power of the increasingly suspenseful action, but it is Lady Madeleine, the second daughter of a neighboring king, that increasingly steals the show.  Plain of face, bold, and intrusive, she drives Abramm crazy at times, even as she is completely captivating the reader.  She makes for an exhilarating addition to this fantastically rich fantasy world of Hancock's creation.<br /><br />I fear I have hardly done this novel justice with this review.  If you care anything at all about fantasy, you really must experience Karen Hancock for yourself.  Don't let the Christian fiction tag scare you away, as Hancock blows apart every misconception there is about the genre.  The Legends of the Guardian-King series proves that sword and sorcery with no shortage of violent action can indeed work as a vehicle of Christian allegory.  Some have compared Hancock to Tolkien and C.S. Lewis; I'm not sure I would make such a comparison, as her writing is unique, but the Christian story is definitely in these pages and capable of inspiring and warming the hearts of those readers who want to embrace it.ower of the increasingly suspenseful action, but it is Lady Madeleine, the second daughter of a neighboring king, that increasingly steals the show.  Plain of face, bold, and intrusive, she drives Abramm crazy at times, even as she is completely captivating the reader.  She makes for an exhilarating addition to this fantastically rich fantasy world of Hancock's creation. <br /> <br />I fear I have hardly done this novel justice with this review.  If you care anything at all about fantasy, you really must experience Karen Hancock for yourself.  Don't let the Christian fiction tag scare you away, as Hancock blows apart every misconception there is about the genre.  The Legends of the Guardian-King series proves that sword and sorcery with no shortage of violent action can indeed work as a vehicle of Christian allegory.  Some have compared Hancock to Tolkien and C.S. Lewis; I'm not sure I would make such a comparison, as her writing is unique, but the Christian story is definitely in these pages and capable of inspiring and warming the hearts of those readers who want to embrace it.	2005-06-25
191998:US	53016962	R3R64KEBBQYA5K	0761826963	282390120	Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam: A Story of the Last Half of the Twentieth Century, Vol 1: Misfits in America	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A bold, sweeping insider's look at the perversion of the American Dream	Misfits in America is, at its heart, the author's diagnosis of the perceived ills that defined the second half of the twentieth century in America.  I might describe the book as a literary memoir, and it is amazingly engaging.  Lawrence Velvel is an extraordinary man in many ways, and his years of experience in the legal profession come through resoundingly in the text of this book.  Among other things, Velvel is the dean of the Massachusetts School of Law (which he helped found) - a law school committed to providing a legal education to minorities, working class individuals, and others traditionally excluded from studying law.  You might wonder just how engaging a story a legal scholar can tell - but Misfits in America is anything but dull, boring prose.  Velvel may be an academic, but he is also a born story-teller who kept me fascinated from start to finish.  Even as he uses the story to voice his own social criticism of modern American life and justice, making a few points that I don't personally agree with, I never bristled a single bit.<br /><br />This book, the first in Velvel's Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam quartet, basically tells us the story of Harry Brohnz, a brilliant thinker with an amazing ability to go right to the heart of every problem, a man who should have had an incredibly successful legal career.  Harry, though, was handicapped by a seemingly unconquerable commitment to social justice and a belief that good always prevails through hard work and dedication, that one should work for the benefit of others, and that honesty is always the best policy.  These are all wonderful character traits, but they are liabilities for anyone wanting to be truly successful in the perverted legal system of post-World War II America.  Things should not be this way, and that is what Velvel's story is really all about.  He gives us an incredibly refreshing look at our modern legal system, decrying the elitism of the whole culture (especially law schools), and condemning the outright greed and selfishness that is ingrained into and drives far too many lawyers and judges today.<br /><br />Misfits in America is also a look at growing up Jewish in mid-twentieth-century America, as the narrator, Harry Brohnz, Lionel Wolfe (who becomes the focus of Trail of Tears, the second book in the quartet), and their fraternity brothers at Michigan all come from Jewish households.  The college stories are fascinating, not least because, for this class of extraordinary young men, academic success paled in comparison to winning the inter-fraternity sports championship, and the days were filled more with pranks than learning.  Velvel criticizes the university system as a whole for, to some degree, wasting four good years of its students' lives; not only did universities seem not to care about academics, they turned a blind eye to cheating.  Much more pointed criticism is directed at the law schools, however, where elitism ran rampant.  Every school (except Yale) wanted to be Harvard, and Harvard grads (unless they were Jewish) got all the best jobs.  Law school itself did little to prepare its students for actual legal work, instead concentrating on demoralizing students and wringing every remaining drop of social justice and ethics out of their systems.  Since Jews were unable to land jobs at major law firms (even if they had a Harvard degree, as Brohnz did), both Brohnz and Wolfe go to work for the Department of Justice - where both idealistic young men are further appalled by the attitude of the government, which was just as likely to trod on individual rights as not.<br /><br />Brohnz is even further disillusioned after his move to the academic world.  Unable to get the job he wanted and impatient to move in the direction of constitutional law, Brohnz joins the faculty at a small, Midwestern law school, hoping to make a difference in the lives of at least some law school students.  While there, he becomes increasingly disillusioned with the ongoing war in Vietnam.  Believing that Johnson's war was unconstitutional (since Congress alone was given the right to declare war), he begins bringing suits against the government arguing this very point.  No matter how brilliant his work, though, he draws little attention - he's battling both the elitism that says professors at small Midwestern law schools don't merit attention and a government that has long ago abandoned the principles it was founded upon.  Velvel believes that federal judges ignored their constitutional duty during the Vietnam conflict, and that argument forms the crux of this book.<br /><br />This is both a tragic and hopeful book.  Velvel makes no secret of the fact that he believes federal judges continue to ignore their constitutional duties, that the whole legal system is afflicted with elitism of the worst sort, and that America as a society has lost its way over the course of the last half-century.  Harry Brohnz, never able to shake his belief in social justice, ultimately comes to believe that most people can always be counted upon to do the wrong thing.  Still, he never gives up his ideals, never sells his soul, never stops trying to do the right thing himself.  Velvel himself basically calls out those who have perverted the ideals of the American Dream - judges, politicians, academics - and shows how their betrayal of ethics has spread to society itself in the form of business scandals, a loss of faith and trust in the government, etc.  Misfits in America is a truly powerful book that challenges all of us, especially those in law and politics, to do whatever we can to insure that the American Dream is not lost to us forever.  You will find much more than an inside look at the legal profession in these pages; you will gain insight into the very fabric of modern American society.th the ongoing war in Vietnam.  Believing that Johnson's war was unconstitutional (since Congress alone was given the right to declare war), he begins bringing suits against the government arguing this very point.  No matter how brilliant his work, though, he draws little attention - he's battling both the elitism that says professors at small Midwestern law schools don't merit attention and a government that has long ago abandoned the principles it was founded upon.  Velvel believes that federal judges ignored their constitutional duty during the Vietnam conflict, and that argument forms the crux of this book.   <br /> <br />This is both a tragic and hopeful book.  Velvel makes no secret of the fact that he believes federal judges continue to ignore their constitutional duties, that the whole legal system is afflicted with elitism of the worst sort, and that America as a society has lost its way over the course of the last half-century.  Harry Brohnz, never able to shake his belief in social justice, ultimately comes to believe that most people can always be counted upon to do the wrong thing.  Still, he never gives up his ideals, never sells his soul, never stops trying to do the right thing himself.  Velvel himself basically calls out those who have perverted the ideals of the American Dream - judges, politicians, academics - and shows how their betrayal of ethics has spread to society itself in the form of business scandals, a loss of faith and trust in the government, etc.  Misfits in America is a truly powerful book that challenges all of us, especially those in law and politics, to do whatever we can to insure that the American Dream is not lost to us forever.  You will find much more than an inside look at the legal profession in these pages; you will gain insight into the very fabric of modern American society.	2005-06-25
195167:US	53016962	RKNVGVHRI6QR5	0897335201	136858146	The Rebellion of The Beasts: Or, the Ass is Dead! Long Live the Ass!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gleefully scathing political and social satire	2004 saw the first publication of this gleefully savage satire in some 180 years, and I must say that the author of The Rebellion of the Beasts or, The Ass is Dead! Long Live the Ass!!! was brilliantly scathing in his allegorical attack on the English monarchy of his day.  I found this book well-nigh hilarious in its obvious lampooning of political corruption and courtly behavior.  It's not hard to see why the author, in 1825, published the work anonymously.  The content of this book is just the sort of thing that could get you boiled in oil and/or separated from your head by a very much not-amused king.  Strangely enough, however, the book seems to have come and gone rather quietly in its day, which explains why it has basically lain dormant for almost two centuries.  Although the novel is attributed to Leigh Hunt, the identity of the author is by no means certain - I personally find compelling reasons to doubt the given attribution.  It has obvious parallels with George Orwell's Animal Farm, but there is no evidence that Orwell ever perused this little gem of satirical genius.<br /><br />In the story, the human narrator tells of how he snuck into the library at Cambridge as a prank and pilfered an old manuscript by Cornelius Agrippa, by which he learned how to brew a concoction that gave him the ability to converse with the animals.  He acquires his amazing skill on the very eve of the animals' long-planned revolt against the vile, cruel human race.  After a successful rebellion and the subjugation of man, the animals all come together to establish a government.  The \\"Rights of Brutes\\" are quickly established as the first step to liberty and justice for all animals (except man, of course).  Different factions soon emerge among the species, however.  There were royalists, such as the royal horses, and ultra-royalists, such as the rats; natural predators who favored military despotism; moderate constitutionalists such as the sheep and goats; high democrats such as the raves and kites, and even terrorists such as the vultures and ravens.  The strongest voice to arise from the debate, however, was that of the ass; this most power-hungry and deceitful of creatures quietly set about to gain power for himself via political intrigue, outright deception, general warmongering, and complicity with the equine wife of a leading royalist.  Political enemies are identified and eliminated in alarming fashion, until such time as the ass centralizes all power in himself alone.  As dictator, the ass determines all policy, proclaims the one and only state religion, and eliminates any individual or species he views as a threat.<br /><br />This is where the story turns truly hilarious.  Much time is devoted to a description of the ass's royal court.  Courtiers show their respect for the ass by licking his tail, and the author describes the protocol of licking tail in gleefully great detail.  We are also treated to a number of official titles for the donkey king, all of them along the lines of \\"his asinine majesty.\\"  The priestly class of elephants is also skewered.  We learn how an amazing number of half-elephant offspring start turning up all over the place, an oddity given the fact that the elephant priests are so known for their chastity and faithfulness to their elephant wives (albeit rumors abound that certain priests disregard gender as much as species in these matters).  We hear all about the Book of Morals, the authoritative religious work that is only valid when elephant feces have marred great portions of the actual writing.  I could go on, but you get the idea.  Alas, the great dictatorship of the ass is brought down by none other than the queen, whose infidelity marked a divide that ends in bloody revolution.<br /><br />This is rapier-sharp allegorical castigation of the king and court of merry old England at the time of original publication, political and social satire told with the greatest of wit.  The author ascends to new heightsof satirical prowess.  Even in our own time, it is by no means difficult to see what the author is actually saying in this allegorical description of the rebellion of the brutes.  Comparisons with Orwell's Animal Farm will doubtless get The Rebellion of the Beasts more exposure than it might otherwise get, but this newly recovered novel is of great merit in and of itself.  There is no shortage of power-hungry asses in the world today, and the allegorical traits described in this book apply very well to modern governments of all kinds.  The price of freedom and liberty is eternal vigilance, and The Rebellion of the Beasts shows you the very personality traits and manners of political subterfuge to always be on the lookout for.  Plus, lest we forget, it's a viciously funny read.new heights of satirical prowess.  Even in our own time, it is by no means difficult to see what the author is actually saying in this allegorical description of the rebellion of the brutes.  Comparisons with Orwell's Animal Farm will doubtless get The Rebellion of the Beasts more exposure than it might otherwise get, but this newly recovered novel is of great merit in and of itself.  There is no shortage of power-hungry asses in the world today, and the allegorical traits described in this book apply very well to modern governments of all kinds.  The price of freedom and liberty is eternal vigilance, and The Rebellion of the Beasts shows you the very personality traits and manners of political subterfuge to always be on the lookout for.  Plus, lest we forget, it's a viciously funny read.	2005-06-22
198749:US	53016962	RJ6G8LN5KM2HK	1420819992	9040961	Descent to Avalon: The Coyoteman Chronicles - Book Two	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Takes The Coyoteman Chronicles to an even deeper level	Descent to Avalon is the second book in The Coyoteman Chronicles, and it really takes the storyline begun in Las Vegas Rite to a whole new level.  Having recently escaped from Las Vegas and the clutches of King Peter (who was much more than he seemed) to be reunited with his parents, young Taine and his feisty companion Joanne soon embark on the next stage of their journey, a rite of passage ostensibly guided by the mystical Coyoteman.  We learned in the first novel that Coyoteman, was not only real, he was an immortal Cynamid who had been on earth for millions of years and, in order to protect the humans from his DNA-shifting brethren, had begun a campaign to exterminate the others of his kind.  Still, his ways are mysterious, particularly to Taine and Joanne, but much more about Coyoteman is revealed in the pages of this second novel.<br /><br />In the interest of fulfilling a promise made, Taine and Joanne hit the roads of the post-apocalyptic western United States once again and are soon welcomed into the tribe of the Morongo Valley Indians.  Some of the local braves have yet to return from a rite of passage journey to Los Angeles (which is even more dangerous after The Change than it was before), and Taine and Joanne head west in search of clues to their whereabouts.  They are soon set upon by a gaggle of religious fanatics; while Joanne is able to escape, Taine is taken prisoner.  The cultists worship a \\"deity\\" called Uncle Christ, and Taine finds himself completely at the god's mercy.  Uncle Christ sets out to brainwash the lad, which means wiping all traces of Coyoteman's friendship and aid from his mind.  Joanne finds refuge with an old-timer named Darth Shadi, but her plans for rescuing Taine - even with Coyoteman's help - seem remote at best.<br /><br />We really get our first good look at Coyoteman's true nature in the pages of this novel.  Less than a god and something other than human, his ways are by no means infallible or even, at times, fathomable - for he is pretty tight-lipped about his purposes and his true motivations for sending Taine and Joanne on their current quest.  His gifts are even harder to interpret at the time they are given.  Uncle Christ, though, proves to be the most memorable character in Descent to Avalon; taking upon himself the role of the holy trinity, he demands utmost faith and commitment from his followers, displays the ability to know their very thoughts, and makes a big show of selecting men and women to make the transition to heaven - via crucifixion.  Darth Shadi is also a wonderful character, probably the most human character to yet emerge in this series.<br /><br />The author (whose pen name is the scientific term for coyote) continues to offer expressions of his own Coyote Zen philosophy in the short quotes introducing each chapter (along with a poem, The Coyote Prayer, at the very end of the book).  This gives him a distinct voice in the world of fiction, making The Coyoteman Chronicles a spiritual rite of passage of sorts for the reader himself/herself.  There are many questions still to be answered in this series (not the least of which is the true purpose behind Coyoteman's incredible gift to Taine and Joanne), as well as one minor character who is sort of left dangling here in this second book, but enlightenment on these and other issues should be forthcoming in the upcoming conclusion to the trilogy.le - for he is pretty tight-lipped about his purposes and his true motivations for sending Taine and Joanne on their current quest.  His gifts are even harder to interpret at the time they are given.  Uncle Christ, though, proves to be the most memorable character in Descent to Avalon; taking upon himself the role of the holy trinity, he demands utmost faith and commitment from his followers, displays the ability to know their very thoughts, and makes a big show of selecting men and women to make the transition to heaven - via crucifixion.  Darth Shadi is also a wonderful character, probably the most human character to yet emerge in this series.   <br /> <br />The author (whose pen name is the scientific term for coyote) continues to offer expressions of his own Coyote Zen philosophy in the short quotes introducing each chapter (along with a poem, The Coyote Prayer, at the very end of the book).  This gives him a distinct voice in the world of fiction, making The Coyoteman Chronicles a spiritual rite of passage of sorts for the reader himself/herself.  There are many questions still to be answered in this series (not the least of which is the true purpose behind Coyoteman's incredible gift to Taine and Joanne), as well as one minor character who is sort of left dangling here in this second book, but enlightenment on these and other issues should be forthcoming in the upcoming conclusion to the trilogy.	2005-06-19
199058:US	53016962	R3OYHITQP8XFAX	141406716X	347594526	Las Vegas Rite: The Coyoteman Chronicles - Book One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Post-apocalyptic fantasy from a unique perspective	I wasn't entirely sure what to expect from The Coyoteman Chronicles.  I knew it was a post-apocalyptic fantasy, but I feared it might be built around some type of shamanism or New Age philosophy that would take precedence over the actual story.  I needn't have worried because Las Vegas Rite is truly an enjoyable novel - and a meaningful one.  In many ways, it's a coming of age story, its lessons magnified by the fact that the central character's coming of age coincides with his introduction to actual human society (in its post-apocalyptic form).  The protagonist's journey outside his very insular world is truly a rite of passage in every sense of the word, and his spirit guide, the Coyoteman, is a source of ancient and mysterious wisdom.<br /><br />It's not entirely clear what happened to human society, but \\"The Change\\" of eighteen years ago saw virtually all social institutions burst apart at the seams (not surprisingly, the trouble all started in California).  Phil, Diana, and their infant son Taine escaped the growing insanity and violence of Pasadena and its nearby environs by heading for the hills; along the way they met a man named Hardin, and it was he who basically established the family unit in a remote location with the means to survive on their own.  After Hardin died, the Coyoteman began appearing to young Taine, seemingly as an imaginary friend full of guidance and wisdom.  Now eighteen, Taine has decided that the time has come for him to leave the only home he has ever known and see what is out there to be found in the world his parents left behind.  The population has been greatly reduced by the sufferings of the past, but the end of civilization had not brought about the end of mankind (although a kind man might now be hard to find).  Following the sometimes cryptic advice and warnings of the Coyoteman, Taine works his way to a deserted town ripe for exploring, whereupon he gets his first furtive look at his fellowman.  Eventually, he finds his way to Las Vegas, a dangerous place run as a personal fiefdom under the self-appointed King Peter.  It is a whole new world for Taine, and he engages himself quite fully in the experience (especially when it comes to Peter's beautiful young charge Veronica, as well as a young revolutionary named Joanne).  Still, there is much about this new life that goes against Taine's principals, and Coyoteman still appears from time to time to point his young charge back toward the path of his destiny.<br /><br />Las Vegas Rite is an insightful and almost profound novel punctuated by enigmatic truths that actually energize the events and experiences of Taine's journey.  Each chapter in Taine's life serves as an instructive vignette on various themes of an enlightening sort.  Through it all, Taine grows into an increasingly noble young man.  The taste of sin lingers in his mouth but grows increasingly acrid to him, as his thoughts never stray very far from home.<br /><br />The author's pen name, Canis Latrans, is the scientific term for coyote, and he does seem to stand somewhat apart from mankind.  Taking on the spiritual mantle of the coyote (combining Native American spirituality with Zen philosophy), he seeks to offer a unique interpretation of mankind and this thing we call life.  The quotes at the beginning of each chapter, the words of the Coyoteman, and a couple of illustrative intermissions all represent the voice of the coyote, if I understand things correctly.  This literary device, if I may call it that, really sets this novel apart, making Las Vegas Rite as instructive as it is exciting.  You've got to love a novel that succeeds so beautifully on two entirely different levels.to Las Vegas, a dangerous place run as a personal fiefdom under the self-appointed King Peter.  It is a whole new world for Taine, and he engages himself quite fully in the experience (especially when it comes to Peter's beautiful young charge Veronica, as well as a young revolutionary named Joanne).  Still, there is much about this new life that goes against Taine's principals, and Coyoteman still appears from time to time to point his young charge back toward the path of his destiny. <br /> <br />Las Vegas Rite is an insightful and almost profound novel punctuated by enigmatic truths that actually energize the events and experiences of Taine's journey.  Each chapter in Taine's life serves as an instructive vignette on various themes of an enlightening sort.  Through it all, Taine grows into an increasingly noble young man.  The taste of sin lingers in his mouth but grows increasingly acrid to him, as his thoughts never stray very far from home. <br /> <br />The author's pen name, Canis Latrans, is the scientific term for coyote, and he does seem to stand somewhat apart from mankind.  Taking on the spiritual mantle of the coyote (combining Native American spirituality with Zen philosophy), he seeks to offer a unique interpretation of mankind and this thing we call life.  The quotes at the beginning of each chapter, the words of the Coyoteman, and a couple of illustrative intermissions all represent the voice of the coyote, if I understand things correctly.  This literary device, if I may call it that, really sets this novel apart, making Las Vegas Rite as instructive as it is exciting.  You've got to love a novel that succeeds so beautifully on two entirely different levels.	2005-06-19
199675:US	53016962	R212AHNS3G084C	B0006WTWT2	911768087	The bluffer's guide to literature	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An amusing little book	The art of conversation, particularly of a literary nature, seems to be going the way of the dodo, but one of the ultimate truths of life is that there will always be literary snobs among the general population who may, if you are unlucky enough to be seated near them during a dinner party, attempt to show you how much smarter they are than you by engaging in the art of highbrow conversation.  Woe to the gentleman or lady who cannot hold such a person at bay with literary knowledge of his/her own, for no one likes to look stupid.  To guard against such a happenstance, you can go one of two ways.  You can actually read and enjoy literature, or you can learn just enough to bluff your way through and/or out of any highbrow conversation on the subject.  This little book, published in 1971, is naturally targeted toward those who just want to fake it.<br /><br />I myself prefer to actually read literature, but I thought I might enjoy some tongue-in-cheek humor in the form of this little guide by Martin Seymour-Smith (interestingly enough, the author's name appears nowhere on the cover, although David Frost's name is extremely prominent - when all he did was write a short introduction).  It's necessarily out-of-date at this point (the author himself wrote that in-crowd fads would change within three years), but it does address some topics that are eternal.  Among the literary subjects discussed here are ambiguity, the anti-novel, the avant-garde, concrete poetry, Dadaism, existentialism, imagism, naturalism, projective verse, prosody, surrealism, and symbolism.  Authors meriting a short section of their own include Ezra Pound, Jean Genet, Kafka, Robert Lowell, Shakespeare, T.S. Eliot, and William Burroughs.<br /><br />I found it to be a funny little book, as it routinely advises the bluffer-to-be not to actually read important novels and poetry.  Instead, one should do a slight bit of investigation to find out what critics say about literature, discern the different types of criticism, and, when called upon to engage in related conversation, toss out ambiguous statements in company with knowing nods and, on occasion, harrumphs of a sort, so that you will look like an expert.  Never get drawn into details, for that is quicksand.  Instead, when you find yourself in trouble, know the code words that will repel the literary snob in such a way that he not only leaves you alone, he leaves thinking you are a man or woman of formidable intellect and understanding.<br /><br />At 62 pages, The Bluffer's Guide to Literature is a short read - but an entertaining one.  I actually learned a thing or two about some subjects I was not familiar with.  I suspect, however, that the only individuals who might enjoy this book today, decades after its publication, are genuine literature enthusiasts looking for a good laugh or two.  Would-be-bluffers of the twenty-first century, I'm afraid, must look elsewhere for their timely literary crib notes.and, when called upon to engage in related conversation, toss out ambiguous statements in company with knowing nods and, on occasion, harrumphs of a sort, so that you will look like an expert.  Never get drawn into details, for that is quicksand.  Instead, when you find yourself in trouble, know the code words that will repel the literary snob in such a way that he not only leaves you alone, he leaves thinking you are a man or woman of formidable intellect and understanding.      At 62 pages, The Bluffer's Guide to Literature is a short read - but an entertaining one.  I actually learned a thing or two about some subjects I was not familiar with.  I suspect, however, that the only individuals who might enjoy this book today, decades after its publication, are genuine literature enthusiasts looking for a good laugh or two.  Would-be-bluffers of the twenty-first century, I'm afraid, must look elsewhere for their timely literary crib notes.	2005-06-18
209288:US	53016962	R1PQEUL1F5QXZZ	0396080103	859338737	Bizarre Crimes	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A short book of somewhat humorous cartoons	This is a little book, consisting of 33 minimalistic cartoons depicting bizarre - and relatively harmless - crimes.  You can easily go through the whole book in less than a minute.  Several of the cartoons are funny, in their own little way.  My favorite was the first one, in which a huge magnifying glass has been placed in a doorframe, thus making a little bug appear rather monstrous to the startled \\"victim.\\"  Many are just silly: a swimming pool filled with spaghetti, peanut butter spread between the sheets of a bed, bagpipes attached to a car's muffler.  I didn't really get the joke on a couple of them.<br /><br />Judged purely on its own merits, it's not a bad collection of cartoon sketches - but it is exceedingly short.  It's not the kind of thing I would want to spend money on, although serious cartoonists might want to take more than a cursory look at Don Dougherty's work.  Six of these cartoons, I should mention, originally appeared in the Saturday Review, so Dougherty isn't just some hack peddling his sketches.	2005-06-10
209427:US	53016962	RYOA885SJQCUY	0971703116	741929991	Green Weenies and Due Diligence: Insider Business Jargon-Raw, Serious and Sometimes Funny	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A primer on the secret language of business-speak	No one wants to seem ignorant or take a chance on looking foolish - especially in front of men and women who have a hand in keeping your monthly paycheck coming in as well as advancing your career.  The problem is that business has a language of its own, full of colloquialisms, acronyms, and expressions that were probably never even mentioned in business school.  The new employee looking to get ahead needs to absorb as much information as possible - but without looking like a newbie.  You can't just interrupt a business meeting to ask the speaker what in the world he meant by some odd phrase.  Maybe, if you have a co-worker you feel comfortable talking to, you can find answers there.  If not, where can you turn?<br /><br />Those entering the business world no longer have to negotiate the lingo ropes the hard way, as Ron Sturgeon has taken it upon himself to compile a whole book's worth of business jargon that will demystify some of the strange expressions you are likely to hear as you begin your journey up the ladder to success.  Green Weenies and Due Diligence defines over 1200 terms, any number of which you are likely to hear at some point in the corporate environment.  The book is broken up into two main sections: Green Weenies contains the more humorous sayings, while Due Diligence features much more serious content.  Many of the humorous expressions really are quite funny; I know I plan on including some of them in my personal repertoire so as to amuse (or mystify) family and friends.<br /><br />Who knew that businessmen were so witty?  They've really come up with some really good material that hits the mark surprisingly well.  You'll be familiar with some of these terms already: e.g., herding cats, whistling past the graveyard, the light's on but nobody's home; others are just plain common sense when you hear them.  Chances are, though, that a lot of these terms and expressions will be unfamiliar to you.  Several are a little on the raw side, but Sturgeon points out that he's just reporting what he has heard in his own business dealings.<br /><br />You may well recognize some of your co-workers and/or managers in the jargon related to employee types and operations.  Among the other general topics addressed in the humorous section are strategic issues, sales and marketing, contracts and technology, and acquisitions and divestitures (a really ripe field for business jargon).<br /><br />Obviously, the first section is a more entertaining read, but the Due Diligence section contains short and effective definitions of some pretty complicated, technical concepts related to important fields such as investments, accounting, taxation, banking, real estate, insurance, and business planning.  Normally, this would be very dry material, but Sturgeon makes it interesting - as well as informative.  Unlike your basic business dictionary, this section of the book won't put you to sleep - and I daresay you'll find much clearer definitions here than you will in any stuffy old business dictionary.  Sturgeon's not your corporate suit-type; he's a self-made man who knows how to communicate on a level that even laymen can grasp.<br /><br />Alongside the text itself, this book is also blessed with numerous illustrations by Gahan Wilson.  These distinctive illustrations really add a great deal to the reading experience.  The bottom line is that Green Weenies and Due Diligence is as entertaining as it is informative.  Anyone in the business world, from the rookie just out of college to the CEO wanting to brush up on the slang of a younger generation of business leaders, can truly benefit from the knowledge compiled in these pages.  It is important to note that the utility of this book also extends to those outside the business community, as well.  A significant number of the humorous expressions make their way into all walks of life - in my opinion, this book has information anyone can benefit from.eon points out that he's just reporting what he has heard in his own business dealings.   <br /> <br />You may well recognize some of your co-workers and/or managers in the jargon related to employee types and operations.  Among the other general topics addressed in the humorous section are strategic issues, sales and marketing, contracts and technology, and acquisitions and divestitures (a really ripe field for business jargon).   <br /> <br />Obviously, the first section is a more entertaining read, but the Due Diligence section contains short and effective definitions of some pretty complicated, technical concepts related to important fields such as investments, accounting, taxation, banking, real estate, insurance, and business planning.  Normally, this would be very dry material, but Sturgeon makes it interesting - as well as informative.  Unlike your basic business dictionary, this section of the book won't put you to sleep - and I daresay you'll find much clearer definitions here than you will in any stuffy old business dictionary.  Sturgeon's not your corporate suit-type; he's a self-made man who knows how to communicate on a level that even laymen can grasp.   <br /> <br />Alongside the text itself, this book is also blessed with numerous illustrations by Gahan Wilson.  These distinctive illustrations really add a great deal to the reading experience.  The bottom line is that Green Weenies and Due Diligence is as entertaining as it is informative.  Anyone in the business world, from the rookie just out of college to the CEO wanting to brush up on the slang of a younger generation of business leaders, can truly benefit from the knowledge compiled in these pages.  It is important to note that the utility of this book also extends to those outside the business community, as well.  A significant number of the humorous expressions make their way into all walks of life - in my opinion, this book has information anyone can benefit from.	2005-06-10
212914:US	53016962	R2W79QB1ORP996	0781273552	250410851	Good-natur'd Man, The (BCL1-PR English Literature)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Goldsmith's first brilliantly ludicrous comedic play	I must admit I have only now discovered Oliver Goldsmith, but already he strikes me as one of the most fascinating writers of the eighteenth century.  He was apparently quite a character, a young Irishman who knew poverty as a youth, embraced absurdity, bristled with envy of others, craved applause and adulation, and spent his money so extravagantly that he died in poverty at the age of 45.  He was not much of a speaker, largely due to the fact that always said what he thought, letting the words issue forth from his mouth without vetting any of them with his brain, but he was, in his own way, a brilliant writer.  He is best remembered for his only novel, The Vicar of Wakefield, and his genuinely funny comedies, particularly She Stoops to Conquer.  The Good-Natur'd Man (1768) was, I believe, his first play.  The boring melodrama of the theatre of his era was not for Goldsmith, as he injected so much wit and comic genius into his plays that both She Stoops to Conquer and The Good-Natur'd Man continue to be performed and enjoyed to this day.<br /><br />Goldsmith seemingly enjoyed poking fun at the rare species of man that can be called, well, good-natured.  Honeywood is such a man: generous to a fault, so concerned with others that he forgets himself, and far too trusting of friends and strangers alike.  His uncle has had quite enough of his nephew's foolishness and intends to teach him a lesson, one set to be delivered by the bailiff on account of an unpaid debt.  When the tables are turned and he is in need, let young Honeywood see who his friends truly are - that is the plan.  As the story unfolds, a comedy of errors emerges.  Honeywood, helpful to a fault, helps arrange for a friend to elope with a young lady whom the friend's father (Mr. Croaker) believes to be his own daughter (and thus the friend's sister); fooled into thinking a great pretender named Lofty helped bail him out of trouble with the authorities, he agrees to pitch woo, on behalf of Lofty, for the very girl he pines after himself; and he comes to the aid of Mr. Croaker in several capacities.  This may all sound like a bad episode of Three's Company, but the play is in fact marvelously witty and ingeniously constructed.<br /><br />Mr. Croaker basically steals the show, however.  Croaker is the type of man who sees calamity at every turn; he sees more plots on a daily basis than do all of the city's undertakers put together; if Chicken Little were to run up to him and yell the sky is falling, Mr. Croaker would doubtless go on about his having predicted just this very thing some time ago.  This ludicrous farce of a play gives Mr. Croaker a number of \\"woe is me\\" moments, none so hysterical as his misinterpretation of a dropped note that leads him to believe incendiaries are out to kill him and his family.<br /><br />Everything ties up quite nicely, at the end of a rather riotous fifth and final act.  The play had rather an ignominious opening, but the public took to it quite well over the course of its nine-night run.  A singular oddity of the play is the fact that one scene was met with disapproval by the audience and banned after the first night (and excised from the original publication of the drama, as well).  In the scene, Honeywood had bribed the bailiff and his assistant into granting him some extra time to pay his debt; when the distinguished young lady he secretly pines for shows up for a visit, he disguises his \\"friends\\" by putting them in gentlemanly dress.  He cannot disguise their manner of conversation, however, and much hilarity ensues.  His high-minded audiences did not care to see common men posing as gentlemen, apparently, and made their disapproval quite well known with a dreadful display of hissing.  Fortunately, we can read the play in its original form, complete with this very funny scene that obviously plays much better today than it did in Goldsmith's time.he pines after himself; and he comes to the aid of Mr. Croaker in several capacities.  This may all sound like a bad episode of Three's Company, but the play is in fact marvelously witty and ingeniously constructed.    Mr. Croaker basically steals the show, however.  Croaker is the type of man who sees calamity at every turn; he sees more plots on a daily basis than do all of the city's undertakers put together; if Chicken Little were to run up to him and yell the sky is falling, Mr. Croaker would doubtless go on about his having predicted just this very thing some time ago.  This ludicrous farce of a play gives Mr. Croaker a number of \\"woe is me\\" moments, none so hysterical as his misinterpretation of a dropped note that leads him to believe incendiaries are out to kill him and his family.       Everything ties up quite nicely, at the end of a rather riotous fifth and final act.  The play had rather an ignominious opening, but the public took to it quite well over the course of its nine-night run.  A singular oddity of the play is the fact that one scene was met with disapproval by the audience and banned after the first night (and excised from the original publication of the drama, as well).  In the scene, Honeywood had bribed the bailiff and his assistant into granting him some extra time to pay his debt; when the distinguished young lady he secretly pines for shows up for a visit, he disguises his \\"friends\\" by putting them in gentlemanly dress.  He cannot disguise their manner of conversation, however, and much hilarity ensues.  His high-minded audiences did not care to see common men posing as gentlemen, apparently, and made their disapproval quite well known with a dreadful display of hissing.  Fortunately, we can read the play in its original form, complete with this very funny scene that obviously plays much better today than it did in Goldsmith's time.	2005-06-07
213329:US	53016962	R3MK4WPO8CGPOK	0595322093	231534454	A Serpent Cherished	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating novel drawn from the pages of history	Scarlet O'Hara at her worst has nothing on Mary Eliza Pillow, and the real life story of this woman and the troubles she brought upon her flawed knight in shining armor form the basis of this remarkable work of historical fiction.  Ann Roscopf Allen's historical novel A Serpent Cherished reads like a story lifted from today's headlines, complete with lies, deception, greed, lust, sex, scandal, fury and - in the end - murder, but the events retold in this novel date back to the late nineteenth century South (centered in Arkansas and Memphis).  The very public drama of these events scandalized Southern society of its day; now, in this modern retelling of the story, it offers readers a most unusual look into that Victorian society of the 1880s and early 1890s.<br /><br />Mary Eliza Pillow was the wife of General Gideon Pillow, a hero of the War Between the States.  The general's economic fortunes declined after his return home, and his young widow was left destitute following his death.  Far too proud to ever admit she was poor (or to curtail her spending), Mrs. Pillow is in a very real sense rescued by Colonel H. Clay King.  Clay owed a great deal to his former commanding officer (General Pillow basically covered up a charge of desertion against him), and he tells his wife that it is only right that he help the widow of the man who helped him so much during the war.  So it is that Mary Eliza Pillow moves on to Clay's Arkansas plantation, ostensibly to manage the place.  It's pretty obvious to all concerned, including Mrs. King, that the 60-year-old Clay has taken quite a fancy to the young, beautiful Confederate widow, however.  Mrs. Pillow puts her womanly wiles to use and, in little time at all, manages to usurp Mrs. King's place in the mansion (with Mrs. King safely ensconced in Memphis).  She takes on all of the wifely duties, and King agrees to bequeath the plantation to her when he dies.  That isn't good enough for the new mistress of the house.  King eventually seeks to appease her by drawing her up a deed to the property (but never intending for it or a second deed to be filed).  This is where the trouble really starts.  Eventually, Mary Eliza files the one surviving deed drawn up by Colonel King, claiming she is just trying to protect herself and her children.  King refuses to divorce his wife, for religious and proprietary reasons, and now the beautiful yet deadly woman he invited into his own home forces him to either back down and marry her or fight for what is rightly his.  Things get ugly, threats are made, and the battle lines are drawn.<br /><br />Several court cases ensue, wild and racy affairs featuring as many lies as truths, as justice is rather egregiously mocked inside the courtrooms.  By the time the drama plays out completely, lives are ruined, reputations are destroyed, and one person is dead - shot down in the streets of Memphis.  It is really an ugly series of events that sometimes seem unbelievable - yet the basic facts of the case are true.  The author relies upon both primary and secondary resources in terms of framing the story, and she incorporates newspaper reports of the sensational trials into the novel.<br /><br />I was constantly amazed by the devious things Mary Eliza Pillow did in order to lay claim to all of Colonel King's property, and I marveled at the continued weakness of the Colonel in acceding to her requests.  You cannot help but commiserate with him in his eventual rage, yet there's no doubt that the bed he found himself lying in was one of his own making.  The whole drama has much to reveal about the Victorian mindset of the late-nineteenth century South.  Colonel King, as a successful lawyer, went to great pains to keep his relationship with Mrs. Pillow out of the public eye.  He didn't have a problem abandoning his wife and taking a live-in mistress, but he was constantly afraid that the truth would get out and he would be scandalized.  Mrs. King also cared more for appearancesand her own reputation than she did for her husband's faults.  It just would not do to divorce him, and she could scarcely imagine what would happen to her if the Colonel's living situation became known among those of her social circles in Memphis.  Vain though she was (and no paragon of virtue herself), Mrs. King suffered more than anyone at the cold and calculating hands of her husband's mistress.<br /><br />A Serpent Cherished is a truly fascinating read.  I should note, however, that the narrative perspective changes from one chapter to the next.  This can be somewhat disconcerting early on, as the \\"speaker\\" of each chapter is not readily identified.  Allen is a wonderfully skilled writer, however, and one soon gets to know these characters quite well.  We basically hear the story through the voices of Colonel King, Mrs. King, and Mrs. Pillow's companion Kizzie.  Each of these characters brings a completely different viewpoint to the drama, especially Kizzie, whose loyalty to Mrs. Pillow is stretched to the limit as she watches her friend and benefactor lie, cheat, and destroy a man who always treated her well.  We do not hear from Mary Eliza herself, but her presence overshadows every page of this story.  Readers' feelings for the main characters of this sordid tale may vary to some degree, but no one can be any less than fascinated by the actions and exploits put on display in this intriguing work of historical fiction.pearances and her own reputation than she did for her husband's faults.  It just would not do to divorce him, and she could scarcely imagine what would happen to her if the Colonel's living situation became known among those of her social circles in Memphis.  Vain though she was (and no paragon of virtue herself), Mrs. King suffered more than anyone at the cold and calculating hands of her husband's mistress. <br /> <br />A Serpent Cherished is a truly fascinating read.  I should note, however, that the narrative perspective changes from one chapter to the next.  This can be somewhat disconcerting early on, as the \\"speaker\\" of each chapter is not readily identified.  Allen is a wonderfully skilled writer, however, and one soon gets to know these characters quite well.  We basically hear the story through the voices of Colonel King, Mrs. King, and Mrs. Pillow's companion Kizzie.  Each of these characters brings a completely different viewpoint to the drama, especially Kizzie, whose loyalty to Mrs. Pillow is stretched to the limit as she watches her friend and benefactor lie, cheat, and destroy a man who always treated her well.  We do not hear from Mary Eliza herself, but her presence overshadows every page of this story.  Readers' feelings for the main characters of this sordid tale may vary to some degree, but no one can be any less than fascinated by the actions and exploits put on display in this intriguing work of historical fiction.	2005-06-07
216498:US	53016962	RP9PNCE319X08	0399150978	476868297	Idlewild	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	An impressive science fiction debut by Carl Sagan's son	When I was growing up, Carl Sagan was my hero.  Thus, I was pretty much duty-bound to read the work of his son Nick (whose recorded greeting \\"Hello from the children of planet Earth\\" accompanies the Voyager spacecraft that is already traveling beyond our solar system).  Idlewild made quite a splash in the science fiction genre when it was published in 2003, and I certainly consider it an impressive debut novel.  It's only natural that some will mention The Matrix when speaking about Idlewild, as it is centered upon a virtual reality existence, but Sagan clearly has a voice of his own which he expresses quite effectively over the course of the novel.<br /><br />As the book opens, out protagonist wakes up knowing nothing about himself or his location; all he knows is that someone is trying to kill him.  His exploration of the world around him makes for a surreal experience: a disembodied voice tries to speak to him, he casts no reflection in mirrors, and Lovecraft-inspired nightgaunts seem to do his bidding.  As a reader, it's hard to get your bearings in the beginning, but the protagonist's story soon begins emerging from the chaos.  His name is Halloween, and he is one of eight students at an extraordinary school run by an enigmatic fellow named Maestro.  His consciousness is in fact embodies in virtual reality, and that is why he and his friends are able to do some rather extraordinary things.  He begins to remember things, both positive and negative, about his classmates, but he is unable to trust anyone at all.  His misgivings about his own safety are exacerbated by a growing belief that he is responsible for the death of a fellow student named Lazarus.<br /><br />As Halloween attempts to get information out of his classmates, he and his friends make increasing use of self-designed loopholes in the virtual reality construct, sowing digital confusion that allows them to find a bit of privacy and even step out of the virtual reality world momentarily.  Such actions antagonize their instructor Maestro, and something of a battle of wills erupts between Halloween's little gang and the virtual reality instructor.  Eventually, this leads to a crisis as Maestro goes outside of his original programming in an attempt to keep the students in line.<br /><br />As we learn from a parallel side story, the education of these eight youngsters is of the utmost importance.  A devastating plague has engulfed the world, and these kids may hold the key's to humanity's very survival.<br /><br />To Halloween, it soon becomes clear that the virtual reality software has gone awry.  He still fears for his life, even before Maestro introduces new forms of severe discipline.  Halloween wants out, and his only hope of escape seems to lie in a mysterious avatar designed to keep the virtual reality world intact and secure.  He wants to find out who is trying to kill him, what really happened to his friend Lazarus, and basically just what the heck is going on in this school.<br /><br />Sagan creates a great air of mystery and suspense, and the answers that eventually emerge set the stage for additional novels.  Some may term the story of Idlewild somewhat derivative, but I found Sagan to offer a profound new voice in science fiction.  He has a quick and action-based writing style, rarely resorting to blown-up descriptions of strange places and events.  For the most part, the characters tell the story - and some memorable characters there are.  Despite the virtual reality setting, the humanity of these characters is expressed rather powerfully as tragedies strike and reluctant heroes look upon their true destiny for the first time.  Sagan may not be ready for Hugo or Nebula consideration just yet, but his imagination, voice, and vision portend great things to come in the years ahead.antagonize their instructor Maestro, and something of a battle of wills erupts between Halloween's little gang and the virtual reality instructor.  Eventually, this leads to a crisis as Maestro goes outside of his original programming in an attempt to keep the students in line.<br /><br />As we learn from a parallel side story, the education of these eight youngsters is of the utmost importance.  A devastating plague has engulfed the world, and these kids may hold the key's to humanity's very survival.<br /><br />To Halloween, it soon becomes clear that the virtual reality software has gone awry.  He still fears for his life, even before Maestro introduces new forms of severe discipline.  Halloween wants out, and his only hope of escape seems to lie in a mysterious avatar designed to keep the virtual reality world intact and secure.  He wants to find out who is trying to kill him, what really happened to his friend Lazarus, and basically just what the heck is going on in this school.<br /><br />Sagan creates a great air of mystery and suspense, and the answers that eventually emerge set the stage for additional novels.  Some may term the story of Idlewild somewhat derivative, but I found Sagan to offer a profound new voice in science fiction.  He has a quick and action-based writing style, rarely resorting to blown-up descriptions of strange places and events.  For the most part, the characters tell the story - and some memorable characters there are.  Despite the virtual reality setting, the humanity of these characters is expressed rather powerfully as tragedies strike and reluctant heroes look upon their true destiny for the first time.  Sagan may not be ready for Hugo or Nebula consideration just yet, but his imagination, voice, and vision portend great things to come in the years ahead.	2005-06-04
216550:US	53016962	R10T051UH75RK2	0486414167	736453708	The Suicide Club (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Welcome to London's most unusual social club	The Suicide Club is a really eye-catching title; once I saw Robert Louis Stevenson's name attached to it, I wasted little time in taking this little book home with me.  I must say it's also rather striking to see a book of only 59 pages bearing a note that it is unabridged.  Obviously, it's something of a short read, but it's also an enjoyable one.  This is far from Stevenson's best-known work, but it's no secret that the author was a master storyteller.<br /><br />The book consists of three interrelated short stories built around a most unusual prince and an even more unusual \\"social club.\\"  Prince Florizel of Bohemia indulges his thirst for adventure by undertaking all manner of secret excursions in disguise, aided always by his friend and Master of the Horse, Colonel Geraldine.  While in London, one such late-night adventure leads them to the doors of The Suicide Club.  This secret club serves an unusual purpose - it's essentially an assisted-suicide service.  Suicide is a messy business - a lot of desperate men just can't bring themselves to take their own lives, and most also do not wish to cause a scandal among the friends and families they leave behind.  For a fee, The Suicide Club arranges for the \\"accidental\\" deaths of its members.  The luck of the draw determines who will die - and who will do the killing - on any given night.  Anxious to put an end to such a barbaric society, Prince Florizel sets out to bring the murderous president of the club to justice, thereby setting the stage for the following two stories.<br /><br />\\"Story of the Physician and the Saratoga Trunk\\" finds a young American in France deceived by intrigues and seemingly framed for murder as he finds a dead body in his bed.  A mysterious doctor in the next room engineers a plan for the innocent young man to avoid an undeserved fate - this is where the Saratoga trunk comes in, as it's the perfect size for hiding a corpse.  The young man and his luggage are able to exit the country in the company of Prince Florizel, but there is more than one surprise in store for the prince when he learns what his new friend is secretly transporting.  It is nothing less than a most disturbing calling card from Florizel's enemy, the former president of The Suicide Club.<br /><br />\\"The Adventure of the Hansom Cab\\" brings the saga to a close.  A young war hero just back from India finds himself selected in a most unusual manner for a secretive mission, one which culminates in a final confrontation between Prince Florizel and the president of The Suicide Club.<br /><br />The book gets less exciting as you progress through the second and third stories, but the opening \\"Story of the Young Man with the Cream Tarts\\" is a great read.  The atmosphere inside The Suicide Club is palpable, from the Prince's initiation to the strained jocularity of the nervous society members to the tension of the high stakes card games designed to close out each evening's activities.  It's a great concept, but the power of the original inspiration is lost somewhat as the two successive stories wander rather far afield before being directed back toward Prince Florizel and his campaign against The Suicide Club in the end.he company of Prince Florizel, but there is more than one surprise in store for the prince when he learns what his new friend is secretly transporting.  It is nothing less than a most disturbing calling card from Florizel's enemy, the former president of The Suicide Club. <br /> <br />\\"The Adventure of the Hansom Cab\\" brings the saga to a close.  A young war hero just back from India finds himself selected in a most unusual manner for a secretive mission, one which culminates in a final confrontation between Prince Florizel and the president of The Suicide Club. <br /> <br />The book gets less exciting as you progress through the second and third stories, but the opening \\"Story of the Young Man with the Cream Tarts\\" is a great read.  The atmosphere inside The Suicide Club is palpable, from the Prince's initiation to the strained jocularity of the nervous society members to the tension of the high stakes card games designed to close out each evening's activities.  It's a great concept, but the power of the original inspiration is lost somewhat as the two successive stories wander rather far afield before being directed back toward Prince Florizel and his campaign against The Suicide Club in the end. <br />	2005-06-04
220741:US	53016962	R3P8734QT7TI9U	1571132600	742079970	Headlong Hall	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Early 19th-century satire at its most erudite and witty	I daresay that no less a personage than Destiny herself foresaw to introduce me to the works of Thomas Love Peacock.  While perusing the stacks of English Literature holdings at my library, I literally bumped into this book with my elbow, saw that it was misshelved, and also noticed the fact that Ray Bradbury had seen fit to write an introduction to it.  How could I not examine this little book, given such circumstances?  It proved to be a most fortuitous meeting, as I quite enjoyed my short adventure at Headlong Hall.<br /><br />Peacock, it seems, was a venerable man of letters, a man of great wit and fancy who catered not to the popular imagination but principally produced works of prose and poetry for those of a scholarly, even antiquarian, mind.  Headlong Hall, first published anonymously in 1816, is the first of Peacock's several novels; the book exists not so much to tell a story as to engage in discourses upon a myriad of subjects with something of a satirical air.  Seeing as how Peacock wrote during the first half of the nineteenth century, some of his satirical passages relate to politics and social thinking I am wholly unfamiliar with in this day and age, but there remains plenty to delight those who love a good display of sagacity.  Peacock could not only pontificate about all manner of subjects, he could land jibes from both directions upon the lot of them.  There is a taste of Plato in his delineations of philosophical debates, yet the entire pageantry of pedantry found in Headlong Hall is always tempered by the affability of the host (Squire Headlong) and the liberal distribution of spirits among all parties.  Don't expect to fall in love with any of the book's characters or engage your emotions to any significant degree (despite Peacock's insertion of a modicum of romance) with the story, for this is a book of ideas as represented by somewhat satirical characters.<br /><br />What you have in Headlong Hall is a gathering of intellectuals by Squire Headlong, who has developed a desire to be seen as a man of taste.  He seems to enjoy nothing better than a spirited debate among the learned - he doesn't really care what anyone has to say, though.  Everyone gets to talk, and it doesn't really matter that no one actually listens because the parties involved consist predominantly of the types of men who enjoy hearing themselves talk in the first place.  By way of example, you have Mr. Foster, a \\"perfectabilian\\" who extols the wonders of progress in the world, and Mr. Escot, a \\"deteriorationist\\" who lauds the goodness of the \\"natural\\" man, impugns progress at every turn, and basically consigns all of mankind to the compost heap of history.  In between these two, there is Mr. Jenkinson, a \\"statu-quo-ite\\" who finds balance in everything.  There are other parties joining in the fun, including a scattering of writers and critics, but those aforementioned afford one a good sense of the story's nature.<br /><br />It's amazing to see a writer argue opposite sides of any given debate so effectively.  Peacock has no trouble tolerating a fool, although he tends to poke a little fun while doing so.  Peacock himself was seemingly no fan of popular ideas or the boastings of high-minded intellectuals, but it is hard to identify what he himself believes from the pages of this novel.  I should also mention the prose itself, for it can be rough going at times.  Peacock was a most educated man, and he uses more than his share of \\"big words\\" that mean nothing to me (who among you can readily define such words as philotheoparoptesism or osseocarnisanguineoviscericartilaginonervomedullary and use them in a sentence?).  He also liberally sprinkles Latin and Greek quotations in the text, most of which (at least in the edition of the book I read) are not translated for the modern reader.  Overall, though, Headlong Hall is a most extraordinary short novel that will appeal primarily to those with a scholarly bent and an appreciation for subtle humor and satire.subtle humor and satire.	2005-06-01
225778:US	53016962	R2V5GXHV9J4604	0425188884	370448941	Anonymous Rex	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wickedly clever, imaginative, and loads of fun	Forget everything you know about dinosaurs.  Not only did they not become extinct 65 million years ago, they currently make up about 5% of the \\"human\\" population.  Rather than stomp all of us humans out of existence eons ago, they decided just to live in our world secretly, donning complex human guises and protecting their continued existence exceedingly carefully.  You'd be amazed at just how many celebrities and power brokers are actually dinosaurs in disguise.  All they want is to keep their secret, find the time and opportunity to really be themselves every now and again, and maybe get a good buzz on with basil or certain other herbs if and when the urge strikes.  They live by two golden rules: never let a human learn their secret (and kill any who do) and never, ever, ever engage in interspecies relations with a human.<br /><br />With Anonymous Rex, author Eric Garcia first brought this strange new world to life, garnering critical acclaim and a cult following for his efforts.  He is a brilliantly wicked author, packing loads of comedy into noir-ish tales of dinosaur private investigator Vincent Rubio.  Poor Vince has had a rough nine months.  It all started when his partner Ernie was run over by a taxi in New York; Vince went a little nuts after that, broke a lot of rules and at least one nose during his investigation of the accident, and got himself declared dinosaur non grata in both New York and back home in Los Angeles.  He is in an emotional and financial tailspin now, nursing a major basil addiction and basically trying to find a reason to keep on keeping on.  With little left to his name, he finally gets a case thrown his way, an insurance job investigating a fire at a local dino club.  As luck would have it, the club owner had important contacts in New York, and before you can say Velociraptor, Vince is back in the Big Apple conducting interviews for a case that may well have some relation to his old partner's death.<br /><br />This thing gets pretty involved, as a simple case of possible arson soon leads Vince into a conspiracy of dinosaur-sized proportions involving human-dinosaur genetic experimentation (not to mention human-dinosaur relations of a much more personal nature).  That is a serious no-no in the Dinosaur Council's notebooks.  Slowly but surely, Vince starts assembling the pieces of the puzzle, but progress doesn't come without setbacks - a couple of attempts on his life, some inconvenient deaths of informants and friends, a serious lack of funds, and even a dangerous relationship with a singularly appealing human female.  Danger is Vince's middle name, however, and in time he breaks out of his emotional funk, manages to stay away from basil long enough to clear his head, and relentlessly pursues a solution to a surprisingly complex mystery.<br /><br />The book is written in first person, in the classic style of ye olde detective mysteries from the golden age of Dashiell Hammett and Sam Spade.  And make no mistake - aside from the unique dinosaur angle and the constant showcase of sarcastic wit and genuinely funny writing, Garcia knows how to construct and tell a good mystery.  Anonymous Rex is a thoroughly engaging read from start to finish.  There's an edge to this story, a fair share of surprises along the way, and all sorts of social commentary you can read into things or simply ignore.  If you've been yearning for something different, Vincent Rubio, P.I., is on the case, and the game's afoot.etty involved, as a simple case of possible arson soon leads Vince into a conspiracy of dinosaur-sized proportions involving human-dinosaur genetic experimentation (not to mention human-dinosaur relations of a much more personal nature).  That is a serious no-no in the Dinosaur Council's notebooks.  Slowly but surely, Vince starts assembling the pieces of the puzzle, but progress doesn't come without setbacks - a couple of attempts on his life, some inconvenient deaths of informants and friends, a serious lack of funds, and even a dangerous relationship with a singularly appealing human female.  Danger is Vince's middle name, however, and in time he breaks out of his emotional funk, manages to stay away from basil long enough to clear his head, and relentlessly pursues a solution to a surprisingly complex mystery.   <br /> <br />The book is written in first person, in the classic style of ye olde detective mysteries from the golden age of Dashiell Hammett and Sam Spade.  And make no mistake - aside from the unique dinosaur angle and the constant showcase of sarcastic wit and genuinely funny writing, Garcia knows how to construct and tell a good mystery.  Anonymous Rex is a thoroughly engaging read from start to finish.  There's an edge to this story, a fair share of surprises along the way, and all sorts of social commentary you can read into things or simply ignore.  If you've been yearning for something different, Vincent Rubio, P.I., is on the case, and the game's afoot.	2005-05-27
228093:US	53016962	RRT7EJ3QRTPJ8	0425183394	951527637	Casual Rex	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The ingeniously weird prequel to Anonymous Rex	This novel has gotten a fair amount of hype - and, I would argue, deservedly so because it really is unusual, memorable, and well-written.  I must admit I didn't find the book as funny as I expected it to be, however.  Certainly, there is a lot of humor in these pages, but this is a much deeper story than the quirky farce I expected it to be - and that is actually a good thing.  There is one scene in the book, for example, that really captures the heartrending pain of a father who has lost his only son to suicide - and the comical bits surrounding it only make it that much more touching and poignant.<br /><br />Casual Rex is, first and foremost, a mystery - told in the classic first person, film noir-ish, hard-boiled private eye perspective.  The kicker, though, is the fact that Vincent Rubio is a dinosaur - a Velociraptor, to be exact.  It seems that dinosaurs survived the great cataclysm 65 million years ago, after all; they witnessed the rise of homo sapiens and now dwell among them (in much smaller bodies than their ancestors), their true identities hidden by elaborate guises involving lots of straps, buckles, and epoxy.  No human knows that dinosaurs live among them, but the dinosaurs themselves can easily identify one another by smell.  They can be found in every profession, so whenever one of their kind kicks the bucket, needs some dental work, or goes out looking for entertainment, they're taken care of outside the prying eyes of humans.<br /><br />Victor and his partner Ernie are your basic PI's - snooping on roving spouses, hunting down prostitutes with sticky hands (wait a minute there - I'm talking about stealing), etc.  That humdrum state of existence changes when Ernie's ex-wife asks them to find her brother and bring him home (forcibly, if necessary).  It seems the poor kid has gotten all caught up in a dino cult called the Progressives.  Most dinosaurs have accepted the fact that they have to go to great pains to pass themselves off as humans, but some yearn for the old lifestyle, free of their human guises and able to kick back and do the kinds of things the dinosaur ancestors used to do (much of which involves the free use of a lot of very sharp teeth).  Vic and Ernie infiltrate the cult and get their man - but that's just the beginning of the story.  There's something really sinister going on here, and our detective heroes are determined to find out just what the Progressives are up to.  Their mission eventually leads them to a back-to-nature retreat in the islands of Hawaii, where they learn even more than they bargained for about the cult.<br /><br />The fact that Casual Rex wasn't quite as funny as I expected it to be is certainly not a bad thing - I didn't really expect much of a plot, so I was pleasantly surprised to find plenty of meat to this story.  It does, after all, deal with such serious issues as drug abuse (ah, sweet basil), cults, murder, and your proverbial world domination and genocide - as well as friendship, honor, and humanity (or whatever the dinosaur equivalent of that would be).  The writing style is delightfully quirky, the absurdist setting is effectively presented (with explanations of dinosaur culture over the millennia enriched by rich and numerous off-the-cuff remarks), the action is well-paced, the tragedies that take place over the course of the novel are surprisingly poignant, and a rising level of suspense (not to mention curiosity) definitely draws the reader in and carries him/her all the way to the end.  Be forewarned, though: if you read one of Eric Garcia's novels, you will very likely want to read them all.t some yearn for the old lifestyle, free of their human guises and able to kick back and do the kinds of things the dinosaur ancestors used to do (much of which involves the free use of a lot of very sharp teeth).  Vic and Ernie infiltrate the cult and get their man - but that's just the beginning of the story.  There's something really sinister going on here, and our detective heroes are determined to find out just what the Progressives are up to.  Their mission eventually leads them to a back-to-nature retreat in the islands of Hawaii, where they learn even more than they bargained for about the cult.   <br /> <br />The fact that Casual Rex wasn't quite as funny as I expected it to be is certainly not a bad thing - I didn't really expect much of a plot, so I was pleasantly surprised to find plenty of meat to this story.  It does, after all, deal with such serious issues as drug abuse (ah, sweet basil), cults, murder, and your proverbial world domination and genocide - as well as friendship, honor, and humanity (or whatever the dinosaur equivalent of that would be).  The writing style is delightfully quirky, the absurdist setting is effectively presented (with explanations of dinosaur culture over the millennia enriched by rich and numerous off-the-cuff remarks), the action is well-paced, the tragedies that take place over the course of the novel are surprisingly poignant, and a rising level of suspense (not to mention curiosity) definitely draws the reader in and carries him/her all the way to the end.  Be forewarned, though: if you read one of Eric Garcia's novels, you will very likely want to read them all.	2005-05-25
228142:US	53016962	R1H7HAJYXF8SCF	0595319238	881919326	Unborn Destiny: God's Will Denied	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brings a powerful new perspective to the abortion debate	There seems to be no middle ground in the debate over abortion, yet Kevin Mark Smith has written a novel that yields a fresh, poignant perspective on the subject.  So much time is spent arguing over a woman's right to choose that the baby himself/herself is sometimes overlooked.  Of course, those on the left regard an unborn child as a fetus, a mere thing, but even those of us on the right who believe that life begins at conception tend to objectify the unborn child, putting too little thought into the future life that would have been for each aborted baby.  With Unborn Destiny: God's Will Denied, the first in a series of related novels, Smith examines abortion from the unique perspective of the unborn child.<br /><br />Each life is precious, not the least of which because each person has a profound effect on those around him/her.  This novel examines two different futures on earth - one with and one without a wonderful soul named Robert.  The child was conceived by two young high school students, one a promiscuous girl desperately seeking the love and care she lost with the death of her adoring father several years earlier, and the other a star athlete whose big dreams have recently been smashed by a serious injury.  There is no love in this physical relationship, and Bobby is especially anxious not to throw away the wild college days he looks forward to because of an unwanted son or daughter.  Jessie, for her part, wants to keep the child, but the two discuss their options - a marriage of convenience, abortion, or adoption.  Is it right to bring a child into the world if a stable, loving family environment is not there to nurture him?  Isn't the child better off being aborted?  These are the sorts of issues they contend with.<br /><br />At the very beginning of the novel, it is clear that God has a special purpose for young Robert.  He even selects a special heavenly guide for the unique mission of escorting this young soul to heaven.  Clarice, a misfit in her own life on earth, and a faithful but clumsy heavenly spirit, is put off stride from the very start because Robert, hovering above his own bloody remains, is not yet ready to go to heaven.  In order to convince him that his time on earth is already past, she decides to show him just how bad a life he would have had if he had been born.  A number of tragedies unfold as Clarice unveils Robert's would-be life to him, yet he still insists he has work to do before joining his Father in heaven.  Clarice then shows him what life will be like for his parents and others now that he has been aborted.  Another series of tragedies unfold.  The nature of both sets of tragedies, however, differs radically.<br /><br />In the end, you are left pondering some pretty complex questions and thinking about the abortion debate in a brand new light.  One of the biggest rationalizations for individual abortions is the \\"what kind of life would this unwanted child have?  He/she is really better off not being born\\" argument.  This is a much weaker argument than it appears, as one can see in this novel.  Certainly, young Robert's life on earth would not be a bed of roses, but no life is.  God creates each living soul for a reason, and no man can say what the unborn destiny of an aborted child would have been.  Fiction allows the author to show us, quite powerfully, the good that would come of Robert's life, however.  As long as we're talking about the interests of the child, pay heed to Robert's wishes here.  Even as he sees the struggles he would face in life, he is willing to delay admittance into heavenly bliss in order to fulfill his intended destiny on earth.<br /><br />This powerful novel leaves you with a myriad of emotions and much food for thought.  By telling the story from the viewpoint of the unborn child, Smith creates a whole new framework for the abortion debate.  Undoubtedly, pro-lifers will enjoy Unborn Destiny more than abortion proponents, but this is an amazing novel that begsto be read by all of those with strong feelings - both for and against - the issue of abortion.that begs to be read by all of those with strong feelings - both for and against - the issue of abortion.	2005-05-25
232896:US	53016962	R2E52SS3E07H5U	075640200X	57537931	Sovereign: Keys Of Power #3	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The end of a fabulous, disarmingly dark fantasy trilogy	In Sovereign, Simon Brown closes out his Keys of Power trilogy, and I have to say it is one of the most intense, absorbing fantasy series I have ever read, evolving from an entertaining but seemingly pedestrian fantasy adventure about an exiled prince into a shockingly dark tale that left me wondering up through the very last page just how things could possibly turn out in the end.  In Inheritance, we first met young Prince Lynan, a youth looked down upon by his royal siblings and largely ignored by his mother the queen because he was the son of a commoner (albeit the greatest general Grenda Lear had ever produced).  Framed for regicide, he fled the kingdom in the company of Kumul, his mentor and ex-captain of the palace guard; Ager, a crookbacked soldier who fought alongside Lynan's father in the Slaver War; and a young female magicker named Jenrosa Alucar - and the Key of Unity, one of the four Keys of Power that were distributed among Queen Usharna's four children at the time of her death.<br /><br />Lynan was young and nave, but he gradually grew into the true son of his father, a military leader determined to return to Grenda Lear and reclaim what had been stolen from him.  Back home, his half-sister Areava, having succeeded to the throne after the murder of her older brother, committed herself to destroying the half-brother she believed guilty of the crime - never realizing that a most treacherous conspiracy involving a neighboring kingdom raged underneath her very nose.  In the distant Oceans of Grass, Lynan united the nomadic Chetts and began a civil war that would eventually involve every province across the land of Theare.  For the first half of the series, I worked under the assumption that every thing would work out in the end - Lynan was innocent of the crime that sent him into exile, after all.  Then, in the latter half of Fire and Sword, Brown hit me with the literary equivalent of a one-two punch that left me reeling in absolute shock at the tragedy and horror unleashed upon all sides of this epic conflict.<br /><br />Naturally, I could not wait to see how the storyline would evolve in this third and final novel of the trilogy.  Even with my blinders now off, I really had no idea how this epic saga would end.  Sovereign is filled with both the thrills and visceral horrors of battle.  Bloodied by his first encounter with the army of Grenda Lear, Lynan and his Chett allies not only regroup, they expand their war plans diplomatically as well as militarily.  Lynan himself is greatly changed, devolving into something both more than and less than human as the life-saving blood of a vicious wood vampire haunts and transforms him into a frightening spectre that fills his enemies - and eventually even his friends - with dread.  The once-noble young hero becomes a bloodthirsty killer who displays no mercy to those who stand in his way.  His closest friends and allies are powerless to contain him in his madness - not so long as he is prey to the torments of Silona the vampire.<br /><br />One of the most compelling aspects of this story is the nebulous quality of good and evil on both sides of the conflict.  One finds it hard to pull against Queen Areava and the noble prince Olio back in Grenda Lear, for they, like Lynan, are really just victims of the treachery that set the horrors of war in motion.  Then there is Primate Powl, who attained his position by murdering the former primate.  Despite the man's great sin, he becomes a tragic figure in these pages as he suffers the guilt of knowing he is not the religious leader he should be and searches earnestly for knowledge of his God.  In the end, there are only a handful of truly guilty men, and the story finally comes full circle.  As Lynan's army nears Kendra, the very capital of Grenda Lear, I honestly had no clue as to how Brown would resolve a story filled with so much pain and sorrow on all sides.  Keys of Power is not just another fantasy series - far from it, withits incredibly complex characters, shocking plot twists, and powerfully emotional final showdown.<br /><br />I only wish this series could have been expanded to some degree.  Far too many fantasy series are stretched beyond their means over the course of multiple volumes, but the Keys of Power series only brushes the surface of several fascinating subplots, especially one concerning the true history of the land of Theare, and leaves the reader wanting more.  I for one hope Simon Brown returns to Grenda Lear at some point, as I would love to see how a land so decimated by such a tragic and bloody war makes the difficult transition to the future.it, with its incredibly complex characters, shocking plot twists, and powerfully emotional final showdown.   <br /> <br />I only wish this series could have been expanded to some degree.  Far too many fantasy series are stretched beyond their means over the course of multiple volumes, but the Keys of Power series only brushes the surface of several fascinating subplots, especially one concerning the true history of the land of Theare, and leaves the reader wanting more.  I for one hope Simon Brown returns to Grenda Lear at some point, as I would love to see how a land so decimated by such a tragic and bloody war makes the difficult transition to the future.	2005-05-21
237130:US	53016962	R2NI41543N3917	1594678669	871665073	Many Faces to Many Places	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A short but powerful, inspirational read	You look at this little book, and a part of you sees it as just another allegorical treatment of the spiritual journey to fulfillment in life.  There's nothing new here, you might think.  You might even wonder if you'll get anything out of the book at all.  As I started reading it myself, I had a few doubts of my own.  This seemed like another happy-feely book set in a world of flowers and beauty, tracing an allegorical path that was just too easy.  Then a funny thing happened; the book didn't end when the main character found her happy place.  Instead, it took a drastic turn down into the valley of loss and trial before finally forging a path back toward faith and fulfillment.<br /><br />Many Faces is the name of the girl in this story; as her name suggests, she is pretty much representative of any and all of us.  Even so, she is unique and has the ability to commune directly with nature.  She has been locked up by a witch, but she escapes and begins her life's journey.  She meets with different guides along her way, including Elusive, the Great Golden Butterfly of Happiness; overcomes the lure of Hate, Greed, and the like; finds herself presented with the gifts of truth and faith; and follows the Eyes of Faith to her intended destination, where she discovers the true meaning of love and beauty.  She has more than she ever dreamed of, but the joy and wonder of it all proves fleeting.<br /><br />For some reason, she grows tired of her idyllic situation, spurns the gifts she was given, and heads out on her own, eventually arriving at the gates of the Land of the Forgotten.  She sees the women of the land parading around in their beautiful gowns, seemingly beloved by all, and then King Eslaf takes her for his own.  In this world, though, everyone is forced to wear a mask; who you are is defined by how you want others to see you.  Imperfection is not allowed - if no one can see it, then it essentially doesn't exist.  The kingdom also works on a distorted interpretation of the Golden Rule: he who has the gold, rules.  Many Faces willingly does dark and terrible things here, losing herself and her very soul piece by piece.  Eventually, though, the true self buried inside her increasingly hollow existence sees the wickedness of her ways.  Part III covers her attempt to regain what she has lost.<br /><br />This short book is at its best when imparting spiritual teachings and knowledge.  Most of this knowledge consists of things we have all heard a million times, but LeBlanc succeeds surprisingly well in imparting a sense of understanding and focus on what really matters in life.  She makes ideas we all too often ignore or conveniently neglect refreshingly relevant.  I found this to be a quick but powerful read.  I wouldn't recommend it for children, however, as some of the issues involved in Many Faces' fall from grace might lead to some uncomfortable questions for parents.  I think this book is principally for all of us adults who \\"know better\\" than to do some of the things we do and really just need someone to hit us on the head with the simplicity of truth and spiritual common sense.tation of the Golden Rule: he who has the gold, rules.  Many Faces willingly does dark and terrible things here, losing herself and her very soul piece by piece.  Eventually, though, the true self buried inside her increasingly hollow existence sees the wickedness of her ways.  Part III covers her attempt to regain what she has lost. <br /> <br />This short book is at its best when imparting spiritual teachings and knowledge.  Most of this knowledge consists of things we have all heard a million times, but LeBlanc succeeds surprisingly well in imparting a sense of understanding and focus on what really matters in life.  She makes ideas we all too often ignore or conveniently neglect refreshingly relevant.  I found this to be a quick but powerful read.  I wouldn't recommend it for children, however, as some of the issues involved in Many Faces' fall from grace might lead to some uncomfortable questions for parents.  I think this book is principally for all of us adults who \\"know better\\" than to do some of the things we do and really just need someone to hit us on the head with the simplicity of truth and spiritual common sense.	2005-05-17
239693:US	53016962	R3CNFRTB5GXZBE	0756400511	262224070	The Hidden Dragon: The Stargods #1	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Good material, but there's just something missing here	Irene Radford has written a number of dragon-related novels, but The Hidden Dragon, Book one of The Stargods series, is basically serving as my introduction to her work - so I can't compare this to her earlier Dragon Nimbus series entries.  This particular novel is entertaining and features a couple of fascinating magical creatures, but several things marred my enjoyment of the story.<br /><br />The three O'Hara brothers (Loki, Konner, and Kim) are running one final smuggling mission for their Mum when authorities descend upon their spaceship.  In desperation, the Brothers make an uncoordinated hyperspace jump, winding up in the vicinity of an unclassified planet that appears green with vegetative life.  In their own world, nature is largely a thing of the past, and the brothers know that their own private planet full of naturally grown food could net them a fortune in the domed, bio-controlled world they come from.  They basically have no real choice about landing, as their narrow escape from authorities resulted in significant damage to their ship.  Setting foot on the lush planet, the brothers find a world that had been partially terraformed at some point in the past.  It is populated by a society of primitive men and women led by a bloodthirsty high priest, Hanassa, who demands blood sacrifices for the dragon god Simurgh.  The head-strong brothers destroy the hateful altar of sacrifice, decry Hanassa's lust for blood and power, and soon split the population into opposing tribes.  Hanassa sees many of his villagers leave to follow these new Stargods who arrived on a white dragon - including Hestiia, the young lady he covets for himself.  None of this makes this evil fellow very happy.<br /><br />This world is a magical place.  The brothers confront the impossible when they meet up with a dragon and a flying cat that seem to communicate with one another.  Stranded on the planet for at least several months, the brothers take it upon themselves to help their new followers survive and prosper - initially out of self-interest on their part.  Of course, they form a bond with the people as time goes on - and they have to defend their villagers from the constant challenges of Hanassa and his stalwart magical powers.  The brothers find magic of their own with which to meet the challenge, as their natural psi abilities are magnified greatly in this alien environment.  The bulk of the story revolves around the brothers' conflicted emotions over their prior commitments to their distant mother and their new commitments to these primitive villagers who look upon them as gods.<br /><br />Radford's plot is a little repetitive: the brothers are attacked by Hanassa's warriors, they seemingly kill the dangerous high priest, and then a short while later the whole thing just repeats itself.  The brothers themselves also aren't fully-developed characters in my mind.  I oftentimes had trouble distinguishing one from another, and there were many occasions when one said something I would have expected another one to say.  Their motivations are also somewhat suspect - even though Radford goes on and on about the brothers' obligations to their Mum back home.  They seemed to have the same conversation on a regular basis, and the moralizing that goes on every time they have Hanassa in their clutches but refuse to take a human life grows old (and foolish) after their first couple of violent encounters.  There isn't much of a sense of closure as the novel ends, either, giving the reader the impression that this tiresome pattern is only going to be repeated anew in the next volume of the series.  Additionally, the dragon plays less of a role here than you might reasonably expect, the flying cat all but disappears midway through the story, and none of the other characters (apart from Hestiia) are all that interesting.  Radford's attempts to introduce humor into the story, especially in the brothers' dialogue, also don't come across all that effectively.<br/><br />Reading this novel, I just felt as if some important dimension was missing.  The story retained my interests, and I basically liked the characters, but I never felt connected with this world or its inhabitants.  There is definitely enough material here for a successful series, but I think the author just needs to sit back and let the story tell itself.fectively. <br /> <br />Reading this novel, I just felt as if some important dimension was missing.  The story retained my interests, and I basically liked the characters, but I never felt connected with this world or its inhabitants.  There is definitely enough material here for a successful series, but I think the author just needs to sit back and let the story tell itself.	2005-05-15
241478:US	53016962	R326ISYQQGO10S	0756401569	836954351	The Gates of Heaven (Seven Brothers, 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A wonderful conclusion to a rich and exotic fantasy trilogy	The Gates of Heaven is the concluding book in Curt Benjamin's thrilling Seven Brothers trilogy.  It may sound like typical fantasy fare, with a young slave who is really a prince leading a struggle to reclaim the kingdom of his father, but the setting makes this book and this series something special.  The action takes place in a world steeped with the mythology and legendry of the East; gods walk the world in human form, magic is real, and war is a constant and bloody part of life.  Prince Llesho, enslaved at the age of seven when Harn raiders conquered his peaceful mountain kingdom of Thebin, learned eight years later that the seven brothers he thought dead were very much alive; charged by the ghost of his loyal former administrator, he sets out to find his brothers, raise an army, and reclaim Thebin - after he finds a way to gain his own freedom.<br /><br />As The Gates of Heaven opens, Llesho has found several of his older brothers, but authority has devolved fully onto his own shoulders.  He has put together a band of loyal followers, including childhood friends, the trickster god in the form of a washerman/teacher, the impish god of mercy, the powerful emperor of Shan, a powerful mage and his equally powerful daughter, and a young Harnish prince named Tayyichiut - not to mention a jinn named Pig who basically started the whole mess to begin with, a few wyrms (dragons), and several goddesses including the Great Goddess herself, Llesho's rightful lady wife.  Like any noble hero, he also has his mortal enemies, principal among whom is the dark magician Markko.  The story has gotten much bigger than the fate of Llesho, Markko, and Thebin by this point, though; if Llesho fails, darkness will claim the very gates of Heaven, where a demon is poised to destroy the very gardens of the Great Goddess.<br /><br />Only a journey across the waters separates Llesho from his destination, but getting there is easier said than done.  The first half of the novel bogs down to some degree as Llesho executes a rather ill-conceived plan to rescue Prince Tayyichiut from pirates.  One of the hallmarks of this series is Llesho's independence - and the many mistakes this leads to; he does not always trust his companion gods, especially the trickster god, but luckily they are always there to help get him out of the messes he falls into.  Llesho is truly on his own at this point in the story, though, and it looks like his quest may end prematurely and rather ignominiously.  Once he and his followers make it to Thebin, however, the story reclaims all of the potential it showed earlier in the series.  Llesho's reentry into Thebin is unconventional at best, setting up an ending that takes the story to a more spiritual level.<br /><br />Some of the surprises that emerge in the latter half of the novel are more surprising to the characters, especially Llesho, than to the reader, but that takes little away from the reader's enjoyment.  Just as Llesho was not the simple slave he once appeared to be, so is he also more than just a prince and ordained ruler of the kingdom guarding the Gates of Heaven.  Many fantasy series drag on book after book, but Seven Brothers is a series you will not want to see end after a mere three volumes.  Benjamin has created such a rich and exotic world that the reader hates to bid it goodbye - fortunately, though, the author is returning to this magical world and the future of Prince Tayyichiut in his next novel, Lords of Grass and Thunder.some degree as Llesho executes a rather ill-conceived plan to rescue Prince Tayyichiut from pirates.  One of the hallmarks of this series is Llesho's independence - and the many mistakes this leads to; he does not always trust his companion gods, especially the trickster god, but luckily they are always there to help get him out of the messes he falls into.  Llesho is truly on his own at this point in the story, though, and it looks like his quest may end prematurely and rather ignominiously.  Once he and his followers make it to Thebin, however, the story reclaims all of the potential it showed earlier in the series.  Llesho's reentry into Thebin is unconventional at best, setting up an ending that takes the story to a more spiritual level. <br /> <br />Some of the surprises that emerge in the latter half of the novel are more surprising to the characters, especially Llesho, than to the reader, but that takes little away from the reader's enjoyment.  Just as Llesho was not the simple slave he once appeared to be, so is he also more than just a prince and ordained ruler of the kingdom guarding the Gates of Heaven.  Many fantasy series drag on book after book, but Seven Brothers is a series you will not want to see end after a mere three volumes.  Benjamin has created such a rich and exotic world that the reader hates to bid it goodbye - fortunately, though, the author is returning to this magical world and the future of Prince Tayyichiut in his next novel, Lords of Grass and Thunder.	2005-05-14
248433:US	53016962	R3N1TKYR4WG9LR	B0007E97D0	662345264	What's the difference in Protestant and Roman Catholic beliefs?	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Instructive look at key differences between the two faiths	I was quite moved by the events surrounding the death of Pope John Paul II and the succession of Pope Benedict XVI.  There really is something compelling in the ritual and ceremony of the Catholic Church, and I felt led to investigate the Catholic faith more closely.  I'm a Southern Baptist, and the Catholic Church is barely visible in my area of the country, so I've never really acquired a solid understanding of the Catholic faith.  I knew there were elements of the faith I disagreed with, but I wanted to make sure I actually had a proper understanding of those elements.  I chose this book by Arthur G. Reynolds as one of my starting points in this endeavor.  Granted, it was published over fifty years ago, but the central tenets of belief do not change over time, and this book offered a straightforward comparison of Protestant and Catholic beliefs in the form of \\"25 searching questions and factual answers.\\"<br /><br />Before I go any further, it is important to note the fact that the author is a Protestant, which means his descriptions of Catholicism are in actuality a Protestant take on the issues.  I, and any future reader, must turn elsewhere to read a justification of Catholic beliefs from the Catholic point of view.  Still, I found this book very instructive.  First, Reynolds distinguishes the two sets of beliefs as different types of Christianity and describes the issues that led to the Protestant Reformation.  He then proceeds into the central teachings of the different churches: teachings about salvation, the church itself, the means of grace, the Bible, sacraments, etc.  He discusses Catholics' veneration of Mary and the saints, the idea of purgatory, and other beliefs that the Protestant churches do not subscribe to.  He does a fairly good job of contrasting and comparing each faith, sparing neither of various criticisms, but his Protestant viewpoint is clear to see.<br /><br />I was most interested in the aspects of the Catholic Church that bother me, as a Protestant, the most: papal infallibility; the veneration of saints, relics, and icons; the teachings about Mary; the idea of purgatory; etc.  There is nothing in my Bible that lends support to teachings such as these, and I have always wondered how these ideas came to be believed and taught.  According to the author, these arise from the authority of a tradition that exists alongside the words of the Bible itself.  Protestants have no central authority of belief, and I think the author makes some very valid criticisms of the extremely centralized teachings of the Catholic Church - none more so than those involving the very meaning of salvation.<br /><br />While this book has reinforced many of my own disagreements with Catholic teaching, I view it as little more than an introduction to the differences between the two forms of Christianity.  It is informative but ultimately one-sided, just as a similar work written by a Catholic would be.  Still, this book does a very good job of illuminating the key differences between the Protestant and Catholic faiths, and as such it makes for an instructive starting point for anyone wanting to compare and contrast these two systems of belief.a Protestant, the most: papal infallibility; the veneration of saints, relics, and icons; the teachings about Mary; the idea of purgatory; etc.  There is nothing in my Bible that lends support to teachings such as these, and I have always wondered how these ideas came to be believed and taught.  According to the author, these arise from the authority of a tradition that exists alongside the words of the Bible itself.  Protestants have no central authority of belief, and I think the author makes some very valid criticisms of the extremely centralized teachings of the Catholic Church - none more so than those involving the very meaning of salvation.<br /><br />While this book has reinforced many of my own disagreements with Catholic teaching, I view it as little more than an introduction to the differences between the two forms of Christianity.  It is informative but ultimately one-sided, just as a similar work written by a Catholic would be.  Still, this book does a very good job of illuminating the key differences between the Protestant and Catholic faiths, and as such it makes for an instructive starting point for anyone wanting to compare and contrast these two systems of belief.	2005-05-08
249112:US	53016962	RQSFAQ2QOWVN4	1591430364	743117829	The Earth Chronicles Expeditions: Journeys to the Mythical Past	Books	4	90	91	N	N	Sitchin takes us on a personal tour of the past	If you aren't familiar with the controversial theories of Zecharia Sitchin, I would recommend that you acquaint yourself with some or all of his previously published work, known collectively as the Earth Chronicles, before embarking on this personal tour of many of the ancient sites that inform his work.  This is not to say that you have to be a fan of Sitchin - or even agree with his ideas - in order to appreciate The Earth Chronicles Expeditions: Journeys to the Mythical Past, however, for it is a unique travel guide featuring a large number of breathtaking images of some of the world's most ancient, venerated, and thought-provoking monuments and artifacts - you will find no less than 158 black-and-white images as well as 60 beautiful, full-color photographs in these pages.  The magnificence of the images is without question; Sitchin's theories about the origin and meaning of the sites and materials, however, are not.  I am not going to debate the merits of Sitchin's theories in this review.  Having read most of Sitchin's published works, I personally find his account of earth's past fascinating, reasonably logical, and even plausible - certainly his ideas are worthy of thought and debate, although I would not go so far as to call myself a true believer (although I probably would qualify as a fan).<br /><br />This particular book is primarily aimed at Sitchin's true believers and biggest fans, which makes the narrative somewhat problematic for those unfamiliar with Sitchin's work.  Having argued the merits of his radical ideas in previous books, he tends to treat his theories as facts here - and, while some of the discoveries he made on the research tours discussed here shaped his original thinking, on occasion he seemed to go looking for things that would support conclusions he had already drawn.  My main point about the text, though, is this: in this particular book, Sitchin makes statements that would seem incredulous to the uninitiated: to put it all in a hopelessly oversimplified nutshell, Sitchin believes that inhabitants of a \\"twelfth planet\\" in our solar system first arrived here on earth millennia ago, basically created human life via genetic engineering, and influenced the whole of human history in the form of gods.  Nine previous books explain his theories and detail the evidence that led him to make his dramatic conclusions; this book covers his research tours and breathes new life into ancient sites - it does not attempt to rehash the complicated arguments Sitchin has already documented elsewhere.<br /><br />Sitchin is an accomplished scholar who has studied ancient history and archaeology all across the globe; he has an almost unparalleled grasp of ancient languages, especially that of the Sumerians and other early cultures of the Middle East; and he is also an accomplished Biblical scholar.  Through his study of diverse artifacts and writings, he believes that the ancient tales of the gods, as well as the events recorded in the Hebrew Bible, were all true - that the gods and goddesses of ancient history were real.  The Earth Chronicles Expeditions is the equivalent of a virtual tour for his fans, taking them to some of the most significant sites all across the globe, from the Holy Land to Troy to Mesoamerica.  Here, he describes what it is like to walk among ancient ruins, view fascinating artifacts thousands of years old, experience the history of long-dead peoples through fantastic murals that survive to this day, and marvel at the poignant power of religious sites such as the Temple Mount in Jerusalem.<br /><br />A lot of the narrative describes the problems Sitchin faced in making these research tours possible.  Political and religious conflicts in the Near East made travel arrangements to such places as Syria, Egypt, and Israel over the last few decades tricky at best, and the artifacts he most wished to see were not always available for public viewing - at least not without a little finagling on Sitchin's part, although his efforts were not always successful in getting him the access he wanted.  The whole work is a little self-indulgent in places, and Sitchin sometimes sees things that I do not, but The Earth Chronicles Expeditions makes for a fascinating and visually incredible excursion through time for those interested in Sitchin's theories.  This, unlike the author's previous books, is very much a personal account, and as such it features some information and ideas that Sitchin has been pondering for years but felt himself unable to include in his more scholarly works.  That makes this a must-read for Earth Chronicles fans.ng on Sitchin's part, although his efforts were not always successful in getting him the access he wanted.  The whole work is a little self-indulgent in places, and Sitchin sometimes sees things that I do not, but The Earth Chronicles Expeditions makes for a fascinating and visually incredible excursion through time for those interested in Sitchin's theories.  This, unlike the author's previous books, is very much a personal account, and as such it features some information and ideas that Sitchin has been pondering for years but felt himself unable to include in his more scholarly works.  That makes this a must-read for Earth Chronicles fans.	2005-05-07
249231:US	53016962	R2H60EN61EJOJ3	0764227947	110377391	Light of Eidon (Legends of the Guardian-King, Book 1)	Books	5	113	129	N	Y	Christian fiction meets fantasy of the highest order	Karen Hancock is the real deal.  I haven't been this excited about a relatively new author in a long time.  Her debut novel, Arena, was fantastic, a stunning merger of science fiction and Christian fiction.  Now, with her second book, she begins a fantasy series dubbed Legends of the Guardian-King, a storyline pitting good against evil in an otherworldly mediaeval setting.  There is an element of sword and sorcery here, and I could not help but wonder just how effectively the author of Arena would deal with the grim realities of battle and bloodshed and mine the depths of evil in the hearts of men.  Well, Hancock nails it - it's as simple as that.  The Light of Eidon is just exquisitely rendered fantasy that keeps you turning the pages deep into the night.  It's dark, grim, sometimes bloody, but ultimately imbued with an essential spirituality that places it on a far different plane than run-of-the-mill fantasy.<br /><br />Hancock is a master of characterization, really taking us inside the hearts and souls of the novel's central characters and surrounding them with fascinating individuals who manage to surprise us no matter how well we think we know them.  Good and evil exist on two planes, the external and the internal, and that gives this story great depth.  On the face of it, this might look like one in a long line of fantasy plots - the young prince who repudiates his birthright, finds himself betrayed and sold into slavery, then fights to gain his freedom and inspire his people in the process.  The framework is familiar, but the story Hancock tells goes far beyond the familiar and mundane.<br /><br />For eight years, Abramm Kalladorne, the fifth son of the king of Kiriath, has dedicated himself to the service of his god Eidon.  Just as he is preparing to finally take the solemn vows of his order, however, his life is turned upside down.  The years of seclusion leave him unprepared to deal with the excitement that greets his appearance in the capital - or the fact that the suspicious deaths of his father and several brothers have left him a heartbeat away from the throne.  Having yet to feel the touch of the flames of Eidon, he is worried enough about being found unworthy during the upcoming ceremony, but he is soon torn apart by complications of political intrigue.  His own brother the king is a Terstan, having adopted a religion that is anathema to Abramm; the Terstans believe that their god is accessible to all, which goes against everything Abramm has been taught.  Soon, though, he begins to question everything he knows, everything he spent eight years learning, as he hears speculation that his holy mentor is only using him to attain secular power over Kiriath itself.  Emotional turmoil envelops Abramm's soul, and even he can no longer set aside his doubts after he is betrayed and sold as a slave to the men of the southern lands.<br /><br />Abramm had never shown any skill with a weapon in his childhood, and he had devoted the last eight years of his life to a pursuit of perfect peace, but he has to overcome his weaknesses and abandon his religious oaths when he is made a gladiator by his new master.  He must either fight or die, and he refuses to give in and die.  In time, the story of the White Pretender and his companion the Infidel spread far and wide, as this White Pretender continues defeating the surrogates of the evil Beltha'adi in one gladiatorial contest after another.  The vanquished Dorsaddi people look upon the White Pretender as the savior prophesied to reawaken the Heart of their people and exact revenge upon their enemies.  An air of rebellion sweeps the land, as all eyes look toward the inevitable battle between the White Pretender and Beltha'adi himself.<br /><br />The Light of Eidon is full of action, much of it brutal and bloody, but the real conflict here comes in the form of Abramm's fight to find something to believe in.  Abramm breaks all of his vows and turns away from the god he once wanted nothing more than to serve, but that does not mean that Eidon has turned away from Abramm.  In the midst of his troubles, Abramm refuses to believe his Terstan friend who insists that all of their suffering is actually for the good, a necessary part of Eidon's plans.  Resolution does not come until Abramm is forced to confront his religious doubts, at which point he finally knows what he must do.<br /><br />It's easy to draw comparisons between Abramm's struggle and that of our own, searching for religious truth in a world of evil deeds and great confusion.  This spiritual depth of The Light of Eidon makes it a truly inspirational and thought-provoking read, as the novel's obvious allusions to Christian suffering give the story a resonance you won't find in other works of fantasy.  Read it as Christian allegory or simply as a gripping tale of fantasy or both - Karen Hancock's writing works and impresses on all levels.nce wanted nothing more than to serve, but that does not mean that Eidon has turned away from Abramm.  In the midst of his troubles, Abramm refuses to believe his Terstan friend who insists that all of their suffering is actually for the good, a necessary part of Eidon's plans.  Resolution does not come until Abramm is forced to confront his religious doubts, at which point he finally knows what he must do. <br /> <br />It's easy to draw comparisons between Abramm's struggle and that of our own, searching for religious truth in a world of evil deeds and great confusion.  This spiritual depth of The Light of Eidon makes it a truly inspirational and thought-provoking read, as the novel's obvious allusions to Christian suffering give the story a resonance you won't find in other works of fantasy.  Read it as Christian allegory or simply as a gripping tale of fantasy or both - Karen Hancock's writing works and impresses on all levels.	2005-05-07
252679:US	53016962	R23IB30KTQLBX6	1411621913	713004197	Monroe's Redemption	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A bold, wonderfully depraved work of psychological horror	Monroe's Redemption is a psychological horror novel offering a rather grim and disturbing commentary on modern man's obsession with succeeding at any cost.  The publisher, Boolana Press, specializes in books that collide heads-on with social norms and expectations, and Monroe's Redemption fits the bill to a tee.  This is a novel that will appeal primarily to a target audience, those who do not shy away from violence and insane depravity because they can see the darkness that lies buried within society and realize that it can break free of its bonds when any given individual is pushed too far.<br /><br />Monroe Goolynaburas is a young chef obsessed with becoming the greatest chef in the world.  His meteoric rise out of culinary school has been dealt a seemingly fatal blow, however.  His entry in last year's prestigious cook-off at New York's Union Square Fair ended in disaster - the wild boar dish he served was tainted, leaving scores of people terribly sick and a handful of folks dead.  He somehow managed to keep his job at the Caf&eacute; Pacifica but, as you might expect, business is terribly bad.  Monroe suffers at the hands of an abusive boss and an overbearing wife furious at the precipitous drop in her husband's salary (and that's before things really take a turn for the worse), leaving his little girl Natalie the only shining light in his life.<br /><br />Then, out of the blue, Monroe miraculously finds himself a participant in this year's Union Square Fair.  He has three days to come up with the perfect dish, the one that will restore his reputation and win him the acclaim he craves so badly.  The meat is the key - he must find the perfect specimen of meat, and it will determine the dish it is meant to become.  Monroe goes in search of nothing less than the Utopia.  Finding a meat of the utmost purity is not easy, for \\"the black syrup\\" has corrupted almost everything and everyone, and it does not want Monroe to succeed.  Monroe is confident that the Utopia is out there and will find him - and it does.  At some point before that happens, however, the reader senses what is going to happen, and the novel takes an extremely dark turn at that point, descending into madness and depravity.<br /><br />The novel is not without its flaws.  Several characters, including Monroe's wife, are much too artificial and behave in ways that deny them all but the tiniest speck of believability.  While I was making my way through the novel, I wasn't sure what my overall reaction would be, especially as the whole thing turned surreal midway through.  By the time I finished the book, though, my opinion settled on to the positive side of the ledger.  Monroe is, oftentimes despite himself, a sympathetic protagonist.  He becomes a monster, but he is in many ways a socially engineered monster.  He represents, in heavily concentrated form, the all-too-human lust for power, prestige, and wealth.  He never realizes that his own overzealous, ultimately messianic campaign to remove impurity from the world makes of him the very epitome of the corrupting influence he fears and hates so much.<br /><br />While Monroe's Redemption exceeds the bounds of normal social mores with its subject matter, this is not depravity for depravity's sake or an attempt by the author to gross you out just because he can.  There is a definite message if not a warning in this story that speaks to all of us, for the brightest lights sometimes conceal the most dangerous shadows.is out there and will find him - and it does.  At some point before that happens, however, the reader senses what is going to happen, and the novel takes an extremely dark turn at that point, descending into madness and depravity. <br /> <br />The novel is not without its flaws.  Several characters, including Monroe's wife, are much too artificial and behave in ways that deny them all but the tiniest speck of believability.  While I was making my way through the novel, I wasn't sure what my overall reaction would be, especially as the whole thing turned surreal midway through.  By the time I finished the book, though, my opinion settled on to the positive side of the ledger.  Monroe is, oftentimes despite himself, a sympathetic protagonist.  He becomes a monster, but he is in many ways a socially engineered monster.  He represents, in heavily concentrated form, the all-too-human lust for power, prestige, and wealth.  He never realizes that his own overzealous, ultimately messianic campaign to remove impurity from the world makes of him the very epitome of the corrupting influence he fears and hates so much.   <br /> <br />While Monroe's Redemption exceeds the bounds of normal social mores with its subject matter, this is not depravity for depravity's sake or an attempt by the author to gross you out just because he can.  There is a definite message if not a warning in this story that speaks to all of us, for the brightest lights sometimes conceal the most dangerous shadows.	2005-05-04
254688:US	53016962	R1R3BOLJUIZYYN	0764226312	718986004	ARENA	Books	5	33	36	N	Y	A fantastic story with a powerful and instructive message	Karen Hancock truly hits the daily double with Arena, her first novel.  Not only is it a fantastic story of exciting science fiction, it is also a powerful allegory for the Christian experience.  I would urge prospective readers not to dismiss this book out of hand just because of its spiritual dimension, however - Arena tells a wonderful, exciting, and gripping story that any lover of good fantasy will greatly enjoy.  The novel's allegorical depth is rich and complex, but it is by no means overpowering.  You needn't fear that Karen Hancock will be pushing Christianity down your throat.  You don't even have to judge the main character's incredible growth in a Christian sense; it's certainly there, but you can enjoy this story for its own sake and still take a seed of something very powerful away from it.<br /><br />The book's protagonist, Callie, is a young woman in her mid-twenties who has yet to find her place in life.  She has a low-paying job but yearns to be a painter, and her family is all in the business of trying to find her a man.  She is trapped, frustrated, and floundering.  In need of money, she accompanies her friend to a psychology experiment promising to help her get more out of life.  Unable to back out at the last minute, she finds herself transported to the Arena, a whole world that cannot yet does exist - the mother of all obstacle courses.  About all she has to guide her is a suggestion to stay on the white road and a manual, most of which is gibberish to her.  She gets off to a bad start, quickly discovering just how dangerous a place the Arena can be.  Exotic plant life and hideous animal creatures are a danger to life and limb, malevolent beings called the Watchers turn up all over the place to tempt and dishearten her, and the fellow human beings she eventually meets up with pose the biggest danger of all.  Luckily, Callie first encounters a guy named Pierce, who saves her life and takes her into the confines of a small community.  Some of these people have been in the Arena for years, searching for the exit that is supposedly easy to find.  The answers are all in the manual, but the manual is soon ignored or forgotten.<br /><br />Callie thus finds herself in a fight for survival in an alien world.  Friction among her compatriots leads to dissension and separation, as everyone seems to have their own ideas for getting out; many eventually fall prey to the seductive dangers of the Arena.  You really get an exciting adventure story in these pages, full of ambushes, encounters with wild creatures of malevolent power, and a mental struggle to keep going when everything seems to be lost.  Callie has to conquer her many fears if she is to survive, and every step is a struggle.  As time goes on, Callie gets an understanding of the place and the purpose behind it, and it is the link she establishes with the master of the Arena that sustains her.  The closer she gets to the final exit, the more dangerous the journey becomes, and the more she has to depend on her spiritual link with the Arena's overseer.  The men and women of the Arena are vividly human characters with their own flaws and problems, including the man seemingly chosen to lead the community back home.  No one has the power to return home on his/her own; the true test comes in putting your faith in another, greater power.<br /><br />Some will say that the allegorical nature of this story is too obvious, but I thought the Christian nature of Callie's journey through the Arena was subtly yet powerfully done.  As I said, you don't have to read the story in this allegorical way if you do not want to.  I think you should, though, as it makes this novel something extraordinarily special.  I won't go into the parallels between Callie's journey and the Christian's journey here, but the one greatly reinforces the other.  As a Christian, I was deeply impressed by some of the insights embedded in Arena; in this fantastical setting, Hancock helps you look at your own spiritual journey in entirely new and instructive ways, drawing connections that surprise, exhilarate, and inspire you.  From this perspective, the whole journey seems so simple; it is only man's nature, fears, and limitations that make the journey such a needlessly hard and difficult one.  If you're looking for a work of Christian science fiction that really and truly works, Arena is the book you've been waiting for.at your own spiritual journey in entirely new and instructive ways, drawing connections that surprise, exhilarate, and inspire you.  From this perspective, the whole journey seems so simple; it is only man's nature, fears, and limitations that make the journey such a needlessly hard and difficult one.  If you're looking for a work of Christian science fiction that really and truly works, Arena is the book you've been waiting for.	2005-05-03
255903:US	53016962	RCJV30RDH7PDN	0451459881	420443032	Mechwarrior: Dark Age #11: Blood of the Isle (A BattleTech Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Coleman delivers with good, old-fashioned Battletech action	I think many Battletech fans, even those less than enamored with the Mechwarrior: Dark Age series as a whole, will agree that Loren L. Coleman is probably the preeminent writer in the Battletech universe.  Not only does he give fans what they want - plenty of rip-roaring BattleMech action out on the killing fields - he also ties the story he is telling into the big picture.  The Republic is falling apart following the loss of interstellar communications, giving rise to increasingly deadly factional wars all across its ten Prefectures.  Blood of the Isle takes us to Skye, an Inner Sphere world trying to withstand the merciless onslaught of the mighty Clan Jade Falcon.  As this book opens, Skye has already withstood one attack and now lies vulnerable to the inevitable return of Jade Falcon's superior forces.  The Highlanders, led by Tara Campbell, are greatly weakened, the Steel Wolves of the singular Anastasia Kerensky have disappeared, the Republic has sent along little more than one elderly paladin for support, and Duke Gregory Kelswa-Steiner's conflicts with his wayward son Jasek stand in the way of possible salvation.  The aid of Jasek's Stormhammers comes at a political price the Duke will not pay, for his son does not share his loyalty to the Republic but instead advocates a return to House Steiner.<br /><br />The Jade Falcons are a deadly threat, as Chinggis Khan Malvina Hazen foregoes honor and clan tradition for total war and outright conquest.  The previous invasion of Skye cost her an arm, a leg, and an eye - as well as her brother; the planet's conquest is something she now takes very personally, and her return is marked by unpredictable and very deadly vengeance on the people of Skye.  Before the attack comes, however, Jasek Kelswa-Steiner makes his ignominious yet necessary return to the planet, bringing not only his Stormhammers but the Steel Wolves with him, along with plans for recruiting forces from the Lyran Commonwealth, a move that offers the enemies of his disapproving father a foothold in the Old Isle of Skye worlds.  As you might expect, there is plenty of political intrigue buried at the core of this story, as the defense of Skye is a show marriage of convenience likely to enjoy a short and tumultuous honeymoon at best - but the questionable future will have to wait as the battle for Skye quickly heats up in a very big way.<br /><br />Battletech fans should be thrilled by all of the Mechwarrior action in these pages; the second half of the book features one fight after another, with BattleMechs going toe to toe as military tacticians try to outmaneuver each other's forces.  Blood of the Isle goes a long way toward making up for a lack of battle action in some earlier Mechwarrior: Dark Age novels.  At the same time, the political and military dealings going on among suspicious allies are brilliantly plotted, leaving room for questions that seemingly must be answered at some point down the line.  It is hard to completely trust anyone in these trying times, as each faction inevitably has secret designs of its own vis-&agrave;-vis the Republic and its own local interests.  It all makes for a wonderfully juicy tale of politics told against a backdrop of good, old-fashioned Mechwarrior action.nemies of his disapproving father a foothold in the Old Isle of Skye worlds.  As you might expect, there is plenty of political intrigue buried at the core of this story, as the defense of Skye is a show marriage of convenience likely to enjoy a short and tumultuous honeymoon at best - but the questionable future will have to wait as the battle for Skye quickly heats up in a very big way. <br /> <br />Battletech fans should be thrilled by all of the Mechwarrior action in these pages; the second half of the book features one fight after another, with BattleMechs going toe to toe as military tacticians try to outmaneuver each other's forces.  Blood of the Isle goes a long way toward making up for a lack of battle action in some earlier Mechwarrior: Dark Age novels.  At the same time, the political and military dealings going on among suspicious allies are brilliantly plotted, leaving room for questions that seemingly must be answered at some point down the line.  It is hard to completely trust anyone in these trying times, as each faction inevitably has secret designs of its own vis--vis the Republic and its own local interests.  It all makes for a wonderfully juicy tale of politics told against a backdrop of good, old-fashioned Mechwarrior action.	2005-05-02
256496:US	53016962	R2T48MFBM1ZST8	0595003222	366520973	Albert	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A uniquely engaging and brilliantly absurd short novel	Albert is a brilliantly absurd look at life and death and the meaning of it all.  Rarely have such satirical questions been asked with such naivety and probity, and I oftentimes found myself rereading sentences and paragraphs, literarily wallowing in the insights I found in this eminently quotable novel.  I actually saw a little bit of myself in the narrator and main character, Christus, for I have asked some of the same questions he has about life - most likely, we all have at some time or other.  There are a lot of forces at play in this short novel: satire, parody, philosophy, religion, romance.  Albert is about nothing and everything, and that is what makes it so uniquely engaging.<br /><br />Christus is something like an open book, but one written in invisible ink - seemingly an empty vessel, but one in which life's ebbs and flows continually pulse through on the existential stream of understanding; if you sit down and really examine him closely, you can learn a lot of important things.  Christus asks the questions no one else - except equally peculiar people like me - ask.  He is especially interested in life, at knowing what being alive really means.  Oftentimes, I myself feel as if I am not actually alive, although I exist - and why is that anyway?  What am I here for?  All that spiel.  Anyway, Christus decides that the way to understand life is to meet death, and he goes out of his way to introduce himself to a recently dead person.  To understand life, you have to get to know death - that idea actually makes perfect sense to me.<br /><br />Christus is quite the enigma.  He has no firm roots, apparently having been found at the age of two and then dumped by his \\"parents\\" in an orphanage four years later.  As a young man, he was sent to Vietnam, spending his tour of duty hiding in a cellar and writing a novel, only to emerge - literally - a hero when the rest of his unit was wiped out above him.  Then there was a girl he loved and planned to marry - until an auto accident ruined the girl's looks and Christus left.  Now, he basically just digs holes; that is why he comes to Tyger City - to dig his two hundredth hole, on an abandoned lot there.  That's how he meets Albert.  Albert is such an outrageously unique character, I can't begin to truly describe him.  He in many ways is the whole town, a county prosecutor who casts himself as an authority on everything.  He is all about freedom and free will, and he fervently believes that his ignorance on a given subject should in no way limit his freedom to be an expert at it.  All Christus really wants is to have a speaking part in the vastly absurd comedy of life; Albert, though, wants to write, direct, produce, and play every role in the production.  Albert wants to leave his mark, and in the end he makes the extremely bold decision to arrest the local ministers and put God on trial for breach of contract.  Christus is in a sense his unwitting accomplice, as he had in his possession pieces of an ancient holy contract, artifacts he had discovered in one of his earlier holes.<br /><br />I have been trying to write a review of this book for weeks now.  The novel is witty and insightful, absurdist yet pulsing with truth, meaningless yet deeply meaningful, hilarious yet somber, brilliant - and almost impossible to describe.  It is hard to speculate as to the reader's reaction to the story's take on such important themes as love and religion, but I think it will inspire reaction of some sort.  There is much food for thought, no matter how odd its appearance, in these pages.  If nothing else, Albert represents just how dangerous a thing free will can be - when taken to extremes.  Ultimately, though, as represented by Albert's case against God, free will in excess can only deliver insights into man's nature - it can offer no truths.  That is one of my interpretations of the novel; yours may well be different.  In any event, I would heartily recommend Albert to those with a quirky sense of humor, an appreciation of the absurdity of life itself, or a natural curiosity to seek answers to unanswerable questions.quirky sense of humor, an appreciation of the absurdity of life itself, or a natural curiosity to seek answers to unanswerable questions.	2005-05-02
272507:US	53016962	R1B7SXJRBD1AVQ	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An unusual, deeply meaningful spiritual odyssey	Purple Sun is a spiritual journey in book form, a story that takes the reader on a unique and highly insightful trek into the depths of the human soul to contemplate the essence of life and death, right and wrong, honor and duty, truth and ambiguity.  Where better for the boundaries between life and death to intersect than in the rugged mountains of Vietnam, a land teeming with the ghosts and echoes of the dead?  A lot of American soldiers were haunted by their experiences in Vietnam, many made their journeys home in body bags, and some never made it back at all.  Each of our Vietnam veterans' stories is unique and important, but none quite compare to the story of Billy Kern.  Kern's story resonates across the years, eventually leading two other Vietnam veterans, one a gruff, dyed-in-the-wool army veteran and the other a journalist who tended to buck army tradition, to return to that foreign land almost three decades later.  Billy Kern, you see, is quite a mystery in and of himself.  Officially listed as MIA, he could very well be a deserter - or, just possibly, Kern may still be alive over there, still fulfilling his duty as he sees it.<br /><br />Kern, a young kid from Kentucky, served heroically in Vietnam, suffering combat wounds on three separate occasions, the last of which came in the form of a bullet that went right through his chest and very nearly killed him.  His miraculous survival changes him; there must be a reason why he survived, he reasons, and he is determined to find out what that reason is.  Kern is rather obsessed with a monk he claims no bullets could harm, a holy man who brazenly walked his rounds each day in front of Kern's troop's position.  He comes to believe that God wants him to find that monk; he alone, Kern believes, will be able to tell him why his life was spared.  The only person who hears his story firsthand is Master Sergeant Isaiah Ross, a no-nonsense guy who doesn't try to figure out why things happen the way they do.  Meanwhile, Patric Gallo, a young, idealistic Stars and Stripes staffer, learns of Kern's story and develops an emotional fascination with the young man.  His obsession only grows after Kern disappears a short time later.<br /><br />Gallo seeks Ross out, and the two develop a strange relationship on the basis of their link to Kern.  Back in the States, Gallo contacts Ross from time to time, expressing his view that Kern might still be alive, still searching for the holy man in the mountains of Vietnam.  He assembles intriguing clues as the years go by, including reports of an unusual wandering monk with a Western appearance roaming the mountains.  Ross seemingly wants to believe Kern is dead and throws cold water on all of Gallo's hypotheses.  Eventually, though - almost three decades after both men left Vietnam - they return in an effort to find out the truth about Billy Kern once and for all.<br /><br />This really is a fascinating story, but it is much more than that.  I had no idea how McAuliffe would end the novel, nor did I spend much time trying to predict the ending because I was far too engrossed in the themes woven into the narrative.  The interplay between Ross and Gallo, two very different individuals, is surprisingly complex; this is their story as much as Kern's.  By the time they return to Vietnam all those years later, Kern's spiritual search for truth and enlightenment has basically become their own; both men obviously need to find a sense of closure and peace related to their own Vietnam experiences - and both men are changed by the ultimate truth they discover.  Purple Sun transcends simple concepts of war in favor of an emotionally compelling study of spirituality and man's search for meaning in a world where good and evil are sometimes indistinguishable and truth is hard to come by.  This novel is nothing less than an enlightening examination of the human soul itself, and I daresay you will learn something about yourself in the process of reading it.le, Patric Gallo, a young, idealistic Stars and Stripes staffer, learns of Kern's story and develops an emotional fascination with the young man.  His obsession only grows after Kern disappears a short time later. <br /> <br />Gallo seeks Ross out, and the two develop a strange relationship on the basis of their link to Kern.  Back in the States, Gallo contacts Ross from time to time, expressing his view that Kern might still be alive, still searching for the holy man in the mountains of Vietnam.  He assembles intriguing clues as the years go by, including reports of an unusual wandering monk with a Western appearance roaming the mountains.  Ross seemingly wants to believe Kern is dead and throws cold water on all of Gallo's hypotheses.  Eventually, though - almost three decades after both men left Vietnam - they return in an effort to find out the truth about Billy Kern once and for all.   <br /> <br />This really is a fascinating story, but it is much more than that.  I had no idea how McAuliffe would end the novel, nor did I spend much time trying to predict the ending because I was far too engrossed in the themes woven into the narrative.  The interplay between Ross and Gallo, two very different individuals, is surprisingly complex; this is their story as much as Kern's.  By the time they return to Vietnam all those years later, Kern's spiritual search for truth and enlightenment has basically become their own; both men obviously need to find a sense of closure and peace related to their own Vietnam experiences - and both men are changed by the ultimate truth they discover.  Purple Sun transcends simple concepts of war in favor of an emotionally compelling study of spirituality and man's search for meaning in a world where good and evil are sometimes indistinguishable and truth is hard to come by.  This novel is nothing less than an enlightening examination of the human soul itself, and I daresay you will learn something about yourself in the process of readingit.	2005-04-19
273801:US	53016962	R1B79EAI4BR1IJ	0971880107	298059673	Wild Animus: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Bizarre and difficult, yet insightful	I've never read anything remotely like Rick Shapero's Wild Animus; this novel is truly out there.  It's easy to see why many readers might not enjoy the book one single bit; on the surface, after all, this is the story of an obviously disturbed young man who literally tries to transform himself into a ram and ascend the heights of a mountain in order to meet his imagined god, Animus.  Sounds crazy, doesn't it?  Well, it is crazy.  This book, featuring a main character who is my complete opposite, wasn't a book I particularly enjoyed reading, but I'm not going to condemn a book just because it is different.  Frankly, I was impressed by this sometimes torturous read.  It's a story that plays on multiple levels, ascending to literary heights in places, and forcing upon me a completely unfamiliar perspective on one's search for meaning in life.  You have to read the entire novel and let its spiritual message wash over you, basically forgetting about the absurdity of the main character's life and actions, in order to see what lies behind it all; you may not be able to identify exactly what that something is, but you'll know it's there.<br /><br />Sam Altman is the kind of man I normally wouldn't even try to understand.  He's a part of the counter-culture of late 1960s Berkeley, regularly takes trips on LSD, and finds himself unable to join the real world as graduation nears.  Not only does he turn away from normal society, he even turns away from the counter-culture of those chaotic times, abandoning everyone and everything except for Lindy, his newly-discovered soul mate, and his dream.  He becomes obsessed with discovering the molten heart behind all of life, eventually convincing himself that it is embodied by a primeval god of the cold, windswept mountains.  Lindy allows him to pursue his dream, taking low-paying jobs in order to finance his journeys northward - first to Seattle, and eventually up to Alaska.  He changes his name to Ransom and begins spouting wild philosophies and ideas.  He is fascinated by mountain rams, sensing an unknown power and freedom in their majestic eyes, and he eventually tries to become a ram in both mind and body.  This is the aspect of the novel that probably turns a lot of people off, as Ransom creates a ram outfit for himself which he ritualistically dons on high mountain slopes in his efforts to attain the wisdom and insight of the animal he has come to idolize.  His increasingly obsessed mission takes him all the way to the top of Mt. Wrangell, where he believes Animus to be waiting for him.<br /><br />Ransom writes a novel to coincide with his spiritual journey, the excerpts of which we are highly symbolic and frankly rather boring.  In his book, he is the ram ascending joyfully to Animus, with a pack of wolves driving him toward his goal.  The most fascinating aspect of it all for me is the parallels drawn between the wolves and Lindy, as each wolf represents an aspect of her own personality.  Both are symbolic of mankind itself.  I can't say I ever came to truly understand Ransom and his mad quest, nor can I say I actually liked the man even at his best, but I did get something meaningful out of this highly unusual novel.  This isn't a book for everyone; most likely, only a small minority of readers will take such a strange and unusual story seriously - and not necessarily only those sympathetic with the counter-culture of the 60s.  I'm as conservative as you can get, and I think the thing I most appreciate about this admittedly difficult novel is the chance it afforded me to look at life in a completely new and different manner.s and ideas.  He is fascinated by mountain rams, sensing an unknown power and freedom in their majestic eyes, and he eventually tries to become a ram in both mind and body.  This is the aspect of the novel that probably turns a lot of people off, as Ransom creates a ram outfit for himself which he ritualistically dons on high mountain slopes in his efforts to attain the wisdom and insight of the animal he has come to idolize.  His increasingly obsessed mission takes him all the way to the top of Mt. Wrangell, where he believes Animus to be waiting for him.      Ransom writes a novel to coincide with his spiritual journey, the excerpts of which we are highly symbolic and frankly rather boring.  In his book, he is the ram ascending joyfully to Animus, with a pack of wolves driving him toward his goal.  The most fascinating aspect of it all for me is the parallels drawn between the wolves and Lindy, as each wolf represents an aspect of her own personality.  Both are symbolic of mankind itself.  I can't say I ever came to truly understand Ransom and his mad quest, nor can I say I actually liked the man even at his best, but I did get something meaningful out of this highly unusual novel.  This isn't a book for everyone; most likely, only a small minority of readers will take such a strange and unusual story seriously - and not necessarily only those sympathetic with the counter-culture of the 60s.  I'm as conservative as you can get, and I think the thing I most appreciate about this admittedly difficult novel is the chance it afforded me to look at life in a completely new and different manner.	2005-04-18
277116:US	53016962	R2707GZ035CE7Q	1563153513	672361630	Shady Side	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An incredibly moving story you won't soon forget	Not only am I a grown man, I'm pretty cynical about life in general, so believe me when I say that I don't go around using the word \\"precious\\" very often, but that is one of the words that bubbles up to the top as I try to figure out a way to most effectively describe this incredible novel.  Max Garrick accomplishes many things in the pages of Shady Side.  First and foremost, he tells an incredibly good story, one that keeps you turning the pages and leaves you feeling in no way unsatisfied at the end.  He creates vivid characters and enables you to see their world through their own eyes, and therein lies the real magic of this novel.  These characters, so real and so very human, are the very sorts of people so easily forgotten and neglected in today's world: the elderly - specifically, those living in retirement homes - not the lucky ones enjoying their final years at a swank place like Leisure World; no, these are the men and women who didn't have the money (or had it taken from them by their \\"loving\\" children in the form of early inheritances) to enjoy their final days with any degree of respect or comfort.  About the only things the residents of Shady Side have to look forward to are bland meals with jello desserts.  The manager doesn't care what happens to any of the residents so long as there is a waiting list of old folks waiting to take their place.  The good folks of corridor C, though, are especially tormented by the night-time orderly, Don Blass.  Blass is the ultimate bully, a large man who threatens his charges with physical violence when they dare complain about his little games: ransacking rooms, stealing what he wants, leaving nasty notes, and - at times - putting his hands on frail octogenarians he outweighs by over 150 pounds.  Basically, Blass takes away anything that brings an ounce of happiness to any of the residents on his corridor - their privacy, their most sentimental possessions, even their pets (and I must say the business with the pets ripped my heart right in two).<br /><br />The novel itself is one old-timer's personal account of the escalation of Blass' sadistic evil and its unforgettable climax.  At the center of Keith Blanchett's narrative (and he is the only person left who knows the complete story) is Vincenzo Calabrese, a new resident who became Keith's best friend over the course of his relatively short stay in Shady Side.  Vincenzo is dead now, and you get a sense of what happened from the very beginning, but that knowledge takes nothing away from a powerful and emotional ending.  Along the way, you get to know a number of Shady Sides' residents (or, as Keith likes to call them, \\"inmates\\").  Each of them are fascinating souls, old yet still very much alive.  Society tends to dehumanize the elderly, especially those in rest homes; we pretend they no longer function as human beings, thereby making it easy for us to just dump them somewhere and basically forget about them - until they die, of course, and their few remaining possessions are suddenly up for grabs.  Max Garrick does a masterful job of making these people real - men and women we instantly care about and truly befriend.  They are basically helpless in terms of stopping the crimes and cruelties of cretins like Blass (largely because \\"the system\\" and their own families pay no heed to their complaints), and that awful vulnerability tugs at your heart because most of them want to fight back but simply, for physical reasons, can't.  Vincenzo, though, does fight back in his own way, and it makes for an inspirational yet very tragic story of a man who is made even more of a victim by his heroism and ultimate victory.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong, Shady Side isn't a lugubrious tale of human misery, nor is it primarily an expose on the dirty little secrets of far too many modern rest homes. There are some good times and plenty of laughs to be shared among good friends at Shady Side.  The close friendship that develops between Keith and Vincenzo is really quite a beautiful thing, as are the acts of kindness the residents show each other.  There is also a significant amount of comedy - you don't live to be 80-something without developing a knack of finding humor in day-to-day existence.  Some of the theories of the old-timers actually make sense to me, and it is always a kick to hear one of them start espousing truths they have formulated over their many years on earth.  I feel as if this novel really gave me a sense of what it is like to be old - Keith in particular is nothing if not a realist.  I loved these people; I laughed when they laughed, and I grieved when they grieved - there are several scenes more than capable of bringing tears to your eyes.  The saddest thing of all is that these people could have enjoyed their final years with some degree of happiness - if only the younger generations they raised and cared for actually cared about them in their golden years.<br /><br />I can't really express just how moving and intense a novel this is.  Reviewing it is extremely difficult because most of my reactions to it are deeply personal ones that I can't really express.  Suffice it to say that Shady Side is a novel you won't soon forget.  If more people, especially young people, were to read this novel, I truly believe the world would be a better place, especially for the elderly.th and Vincenzo is really quite a beautiful thing, as are the acts of kindness the residents show each other.  There is also a significant amount of comedy - you don't live to be 80-something without developing a knack of finding humor in day-to-day existence.  Some of the theories of the old-timers actually make sense to me, and it is always a kick to hear one of them start espousing truths they have formulated over their many years on earth.  I feel as if this novel really gave me a sense of what it is like to be old - Keith in particular is nothing if not a realist.  I loved these people; I laughed when they laughed, and I grieved when they grieved - there are several scenes more than capable of bringing tears to your eyes.  The saddest thing of all is that these people could have enjoyed their final years with some degree of happiness - if only the younger generations they raised and cared for actually cared about them in their golden years.   <br /> <br />I can't really express just how moving and intense a novel this is.  Reviewing it is extremely difficult because most of my reactions to it are deeply personal ones that I can't really express.  Suffice it to say that Shady Side is a novel you won't soon forget.  If more people, especially young people, were to read this novel, I truly believe the world would be a better place, especially for the elderly.	2005-04-14
280320:US	53016962	RURD8ND1XKIX0	1413728650	347480366	The Curse of Mesphisto's Seed: Book One: The Day of the Awakening	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Darkly compelling despite some flaws in the writing	There's nothing quite like a good apocalyptic thriller - angels of the light and the dark battling it out, dark excursions into hell, the devil's minions wreaking havoc on earth, etc.  The Curse of Mesphisto's Seed: Book One: The Day of Awakening promised a dark taste of such action, but I have to admit it did not completely meet my expectations.  Certainly, the idea of the book (and series) is a good one.  You have a small child named Elliott who becomes the instrument of Mesphisto's vengeance on earth, and you have a couple of normal human beings who come to stand between him and his dark designs - in not one but two different encounters separated by over twenty years.  As the story progressed, though, I found myself bogged down somewhat, confused by the true relationship between Elliott and Mesphisto, sometimes a little bit lost in terms of chronology, and stymied to some degree by the writing style.  Eventually, the showdown between good and evil comes, but only after Elliott all but disappears from the narrative while the main heroes banter and bicker among themselves.<br /><br />I found the writing somewhat discordant.  Basically, I longed for more detail about Elliott's dark nature, especially in terms of the power struggle of sorts between him and Mephisto; I wanted to know more about the extraordinary powers one of the heroes acquires following a confrontation with the dark side; and I grew somewhat tired of the dialogue between the good guys in the book's later chapters, as they are apt to fly off the handle for the least little thing.  There are a lot of errors and some inconsistencies in the writing, as well as abrupt transitions, all of which kept me from fully connecting with the story.  The biggest problem I had with the writing, however, was the fact that it continually shifted between past and present tense, oftentimes in the same sentence - I found that very disconcerting.<br /><br />Sheriff Joshua Riley and his deputy Mark Talbot are political foes who come together to hold off the first wave of hellish danger posed by young Elliott.  The initial confrontation gives Mark supernatural powers, which he uses to transport himself, Joshua, and an ally of the cloth to the very depths of hell itself in order to save a loved one Elliott has kidnapped.  Mark does not return from that battle, but Elliott's threat seems to have been eliminated.  Then, twenty-two years later, Mark suddenly turns up, not having aged at all.  In the midst of Mark's adjustment to the loss of twenty-two years on earth and the beginnings of a relationship with the spunky daughter of the woman he once loved, Elliott turns up again - this time as an evangelical preacher.  Thus is the stage set for a second confrontation between good and evil.<br /><br />The Curse of Mesphisto's Seed got off to a good start, detailing the strange nature of this small child Elliott, his evil excursions in the night with a hellish wolf familiar at his side, and the fear his presence evoked in the eyes of his own mother.  I fully expected Elliott to take central stage in the novel, but he virtually disappeared in the middle chapters - and I never really had a sense that I understood very much about him.  Mesphisto's means and motives were an even greater mystery to me.  Of course, this is only the first book in a series, to some degree setting the stage for what is to come, so I would fully expect the scope of the story to expand in future installments.  I'm fairly torn over this novel.  I think the writing clearly reveals some weaknesses, yet I have to say I quite enjoyed the story nonetheless, and I plan on following the remaining books in the series.her to hold off the first wave of hellish danger posed by young Elliott.  The initial confrontation gives Mark supernatural powers, which he uses to transport himself, Joshua, and an ally of the cloth to the very depths of hell itself in order to save a loved one Elliott has kidnapped.  Mark does not return from that battle, but Elliott's threat seems to have been eliminated.  Then, twenty-two years later, Mark suddenly turns up, not having aged at all.  In the midst of Mark's adjustment to the loss of twenty-two years on earth and the beginnings of a relationship with the spunky daughter of the woman he once loved, Elliott turns up again - this time as an evangelical preacher.  Thus is the stage set for a second confrontation between good and evil.    The Curse of Mesphisto's Seed got off to a good start, detailing the strange nature of this small child Elliott, his evil excursions in the night with a hellish wolf familiar at his side, and the fear his presence evoked in the eyes of his own mother.  I fully expected Elliott to take central stage in the novel, but he virtually disappeared in the middle chapters - and I never really had a sense that I understood very much about him.  Mesphisto's means and motives were an even greater mystery to me.  Of course, this is only the first book in a series, to some degree setting the stage for what is to come, so I would fully expect the scope of the story to expand in future installments.  I'm fairly torn over this novel.  I think the writing clearly reveals some weaknesses, yet I have to say I quite enjoyed the story nonetheless, and I plan on following the remaining books in the series.	2005-04-12
283879:US	53016962	R3M6E5YRVBW742	0595666523	284863340	China Diaries: A novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Historical fiction at its best and most instructive	Oftentimes, one can learn more about the past from a work of historical fiction than from an academic or journalistic textbook.  History can tell you what happened, but good historical fiction can take you there and let a part of you experience it for yourself.  China Diaries is an extraordinarily good work of historical fiction, providing readers with an illuminating window into the World War II experience of China.  For whatever reason, the extent of the atrocities committed by Japanese soldiers on the Chinese people has never seemed to register properly in the public consciousness - then or now.  In the 1930s, the world turned a blind eye to Japanese aggression, despite the absolute horrors of atrocities such as the rape of Nanking.  Louis Stannard wants to tell this neglected story of the war, and he succeeds admirably in doing so.  Stannard also brings to light an even more neglected aspect of World War II, one I was completely unfamiliar with - namely, the important contributions of Pan Am's small fleet of Clipper boat planes in the Chinese theater of war.  As an experienced pilot himself, Stannard does an impeccable job explaining the realities of aviation in that era, and that lends the story a pervasive air of authenticity.  Of course, a good historical novel also has to have a good story, and China Diaries features a truly compelling one full of romance, danger, heroism, betrayal, and personal discovery.<br /><br />Stephen Cannon never knew his parents, both of whom died during World War II.  The only connection he has with them is in the form of the journals they left behind, journals he calls the China Diaries because they describe the life of his parents in China in the late 1930s.  His father was a pilot who flew for the China National Aviation Corporation (CNAC), while his mother was a Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; from Shanghai who worked for the CNAC, married his father against the backdrop of the opening hostilities in Hong Kong, and - for reasons Stephen never understood - left her newborn baby in the States in order to return to China in the early 1940s, whereupon she disappeared.  Fifty years later, a young Chinese exchange student contacts Stephen out of the blue and tells him that his great-uncle has information about his mother, Anna Boreisha Cannon, and is eager to share it with him - in fact, the man claims to owe his very life to Anna.  Soon, Stephen is on his way to Hong Kong, hoping to finally learn the enigmatic secrets of his mother's extraordinary life.<br /><br />This is really Anna's story, and it is a truly remarkable one.  Some of it comes in the form of her journal entries, but most of it is presented in standard narrative form.  Life as a young Russian girl in Shanghai held little promise in the 1930s, but Anna's father saw to it that his daughter was highly educated.  That education provided the means for her to get a job with the CNAC and escape her home town when the Japanese invaded.  Anna spent the rest of her life seemingly running just ahead of the invading Japanese army.  She was in Hong Kong when it was attacked, she witnessed the horrors of the rape of Nanking, and she desperately sought to get word of the Japanese atrocities out to the rest of the world, naively believing they would come to China's aid if they only knew what was really taking place at the murderous hands of the Japanese.  While she was in Hong Kong, she met and fell in love with American pilot Alex Cannon, and the reader is treated to an intimate look at their loving relationship as seen against the backdrop of war.  Now following his mother's footsteps in Hong Kong and China, Stephen finally learns the remaining history of the mother he never knew.  It all makes for a powerful story, one quite capable of changing lives even in the here and now.<br /><br />China Diaries paints an incredibly revealing portrait of China during the decade of Japanese aggression.  It is an ugly time of war, prejudice, treason, betrayal, and mass murder, yet it also extols the incredible bravery of extraordinary women such as Anna and the men of the CNAC who continued to support the Chinese people as best they could in their time of need.  This is the story of World War II as it played out on the other side of the globe, a story made no less horrifying by its lack of German concentration camps or sadistic storm troopers.  The historical events making up the foundation of this novel did actually happen.  The rest of the world, as typified by the League of Nations, ignored the plight of a suffering people in the 1930s and thereby helped bring about the global conflagration of World War II and the later scourge of Communism to the world's most populous country.  One must never ignore the horrors of man's inhumanity to man because such horrors will not end until good men somewhere work up the fortitude to take it upon themselves to stop it.  China Diaries is not about the U.S. war effort that eventually turned the tides of war, but it does offer insights into the reluctance of America to join the noble fight up until everything changed on a peaceful Sunday morning in Pearl Harbor. We must learn from the mistakes of the past, and China Diaries - besides telling an incredibly gripping story - makes for an excellent and very instructive history lesson for us all., and mass murder, yet it also extols the incredible bravery of extraordinary women such as Anna and the men of the CNAC who continued to support the Chinese people as best they could in their time of need.  This is the story of World War II as it played out on the other side of the globe, a story made no less horrifying by its lack of German concentration camps or sadistic storm troopers.  The historical events making up the foundation of this novel did actually happen.  The rest of the world, as typified by the League of Nations, ignored the plight of a suffering people in the 1930s and thereby helped bring about the global conflagration of World War II and the later scourge of Communism to the world's most populous country.  One must never ignore the horrors of man's inhumanity to man because such horrors will not end until good men somewhere work up the fortitude to take it upon themselves to stop it.  China Diaries is not about the U.S. war effort that eventually turned the tides of war, but it does offer insights into the reluctance of America to join the noble fight up until everything changed on a peaceful Sunday morning in Pearl Harbor. We must learn from the mistakes of the past, and China Diaries - besides telling an incredibly gripping story - makes for an excellent and very instructive history lesson for us all.	2005-04-09
286900:US	53016962	RKX92AT0QE3AZ	1413705227	729648876	From Darkness	Books	4	1	1	N	N	From Darkness comes the Devourer of Souls	Karil Wade offers readers fresh proof that the art of horror fiction remains alive and well in the world today.  From Darkness is quite an entertaining, suspenseful read, featuring an effectively gloomy air of creepiness, some truly stimulating moments of gruesomeness, and more nuance than you might expect from such a book at first glance.  The novel starts out as your basic haunted house story.  You have newlyweds moving into a house with a questionable past, a palpable sense of something not good coming from the basement, a general sense of wrongness that the bride's sister picks up on immediately, and even an ill-fated house blessing by a local priest.  After a certain point, however, the story evolves into something more complex and almost Lovecraftian in its otherworldliness.  You have a tight-lipped island community protecting the secret of the evil presence their ancestors foolishly evoked decades ago, not a mere hole in a basement wall but a series of portals linking transient, underground tunnels beneath the landscape, and an unseen monster calling himself the Devourer of Souls.  This otherworldly presence, whatever it is, has a tendency to go around ripping people's heads off for some unknown purpose - and, if you ask me, you just can't go wrong with multiple decapitations.<br /><br />Wade sets a solid foundation for the story, as newlyweds Mike and Tina fall in love with the old house on Orca Island.  Then Connie, the bride's sister, takes a look, senses something frightening in the old family graveyard out back, and knows in her gut that the family had been murdered in that very house.  Then the caretaker tells a wonderfully gruesome story about the original family having been decapitated in the basement.  The couple moves in anyway, having been convinced that the legend was just a joke, only to begin experiencing weird things in the basement almost immediately.  Later on, there's a particularly memorable scene that takes place in the graveyard, and the impossible but all too real event that takes place there pretty much removes any doubt that the evil is real.  It's also hard to run away from, as the horror now begins to spread beyond Orca Island (leaving a trail of decapitated heads in its wake).  It is here that the novel seems to me to lose a little bit of its focus, as the authorities (both police and military) become involved in a really big way.  The ultimate resolution comes down to an individual confrontation, but much of the intimate creepiness that defines the early chapters of the book has diminished somewhat by this point.<br /><br />From Darkness was a very enjoyable and suspenseful read, but I'm not sure I completely understood the true nature of the head-snatching evil \\"monster.\\"  There is a lot of new information to suddenly process in the novel's final pages, and it left me a tad confused in the end.  Certainly, though, I would recommend this novel to horror fans.  The characters are well-drawn, the horrors are gruesome enough to delight hard-core horror fans (like me) without being too gruesome for those of a weaker constitution, the action proceeds at a consistently steady pace, and the nuances built into the story make this much more than just another haunted house novel.e impossible but all too real event that takes place there pretty much removes any doubt that the evil is real.  It's also hard to run away from, as the horror now begins to spread beyond Orca Island (leaving a trail of decapitated heads in its wake).  It is here that the novel seems to me to lose a little bit of its focus, as the authorities (both police and military) become involved in a really big way.  The ultimate resolution comes down to an individual confrontation, but much of the intimate creepiness that defines the early chapters of the book has diminished somewhat by this point.   <br /> <br />From Darkness was a very enjoyable and suspenseful read, but I'm not sure I completely understood the true nature of the head-snatching evil \\"monster.\\"  There is a lot of new information to suddenly process in the novel's final pages, and it left me a tad confused in the end.  Certainly, though, I would recommend this novel to horror fans.  The characters are well-drawn, the horrors are gruesome enough to delight hard-core horror fans (like me) without being too gruesome for those of a weaker constitution, the action proceeds at a consistently steady pace, and the nuances built into the story make this much more than just another haunted house novel.	2005-04-06
301129:US	53016962	R33O4A1LBLYOU8	1889758280	537036912	Dream of Fire	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Action-packed, intellectually challenging dark fantasy	Nicholas C. Prata's Dream of Fire makes for an intellectually challenging but very rewarding work of dark fantasy.  I had a little trouble developing a real connection with the novel early on because of numerous references to completely alien terms and expressions; fortunately, Prata provides a glossary at the end of the book that defines such important and much-used terms as stalenzka, chiampugula, and landesknecta.  He also provides several appendices summarizing military tactics and the histories of the cultures featured in the story.  It is an extraordinary effort on the part of the author to define this world of his imagination in extremely realistic terms.  At times, I felt as if I must have missed history class the day we covered these cultures, as Prata certainly writes about them as if they were as real as the ancient historical peoples of earth.<br /><br />The centerpiece of the story is Kerebos Ikar, leader of the Black Legion and unquestionably the most feared man on the world of Pangaea.  Untold men, women, and children have been brutalized and slain by this man over the years, but Kerebos is not the simple monster of a man he appears to be.  Each night finds him screaming in the throes of awful nightmares, and each day finds him pursuing the destruction of the entire world - starting with himself, for Kerebos is haunted by the fact that he murdered his own father.<br /><br />Kerebos' opposite in virtually every way is Antiphon al-Caliph, a timid priest of the Order of the White Flame who is sent to bring the fierce warrior, seemingly hell's own minion, back to the holy city of Kwan Aharon.  Sacred prophecy points to Kerebos as the man who will bring salvation and deliver the faithful over to the kingdom while the world sinks into apocalyptic oblivion.  The relationship that develops between Antiphon and Kerebos is complex and fascinating.  Kerebos thinks his sin is too great to be forgiven by God or man, and the philosophical depths to which he plunges in self-contemplation are both moving and very instructive to the reader.<br /><br />While the depth and meaning of this novel take precedence over all else, there is plenty of heart-stopping, bloody action to go around as Kerebos the torturer and human monster transforms into God's fiery final prophet.  Prata possesses impressive understanding of ancient military tactics, and this makes the engagements and armed clashes he describes verily ring with the clash of swords; not only can you envision the carnage of the battlefield, you can almost smell the blood and entrails that mark the landscape.<br /><br />Dream of Fire thus succeeds admirably on two levels.  The vividly-described action sequences will appeal to those who yearn for excitement and wonderfully realistic battle scenes, while the deeper lessons of Kerebos' unique story will leave most readers pondering the philosophical and allegorical meaning of it all long after turning the last page.  Few novels offer such a unique and powerful study of the nature of evil and the capacity for good in even the worst of men.lunges in self-contemplation are both moving and very instructive to the reader.  <br /> <br />While the depth and meaning of this novel take precedence over all else, there is plenty of heart-stopping, bloody action to go around as Kerebos the torturer and human monster transforms into God's fiery final prophet.  Prata possesses impressive understanding of ancient military tactics, and this makes the engagements and armed clashes he describes verily ring with the clash of swords; not only can you envision the carnage of the battlefield, you can almost smell the blood and entrails that mark the landscape. <br /> <br />Dream of Fire thus succeeds admirably on two levels.  The vividly-described action sequences will appeal to those who yearn for excitement and wonderfully realistic battle scenes, while the deeper lessons of Kerebos' unique story will leave most readers pondering the philosophical and allegorical meaning of it all long after turning the last page.  Few novels offer such a unique and powerful study of the nature of evil and the capacity for good in even the worst of men.	2005-03-26
301136:US	53016962	R1P5GJGT6PAXU	0595327826	125260983	Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A highly informative, fascinating look at life in Kazakhstan	Keith Rosten has given us a fascinating look at a country I for one knew very little about.  It seems to me that we cared much more about the former Soviet satellite nations while they lay subject to Soviet domination and have generally ignored them after the Soviet Union burst apart at the seams.  That is unfortunate because former Soviet bloc nations such as Kazakhstan have been, for well over a decade now, embarking on the road to democracy - a journey which has oftentimes involved two steps back for each step forward.  Rosten gives us a personal view of the early struggle for progress and democratic reform in this geographically isolated, complicated nation, for he was there in the fall through spring months of 1993/94 as Kazakhstan took some of its early steps toward becoming a free and independent nation.  In the upper left corner of the back cover of this book, Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges is classified as a Travel book, but it is much more than that.  Rosten introduces us to the history of this country, describes its strengths and beauties as well as its many problems, details its halting steps toward national autonomy, and - most importantly - gives us a sense of the life and culture of the inhabitants of this comparatively large country lying between China and the Caspian Sea.<br /><br />Keith Rosten is a lawyer who went to Kazakhstan (not for the first or last time) in September 1993 as a Fulbright Lecturer in Law.  Over the course of a long, typically cold winter, he witnessed some of the most crucial days in the creation of the infant Republic of Kazakhstan.  In a country with little infrastructure, almost no experience at self-rule, and a potentially fractious mix of ethnic groups, democracy doesn't just happen.  Kazakhstan, led by Nursultan Nazarbayev, former head of the Kazakhstan Communist Party, did not see its people take to the streets embracing their independence; rather, the government plotted a slow and not always sure path to change.  Life became, in many ways, harder than ever in this isolated country, cursed with the kind of problems we in the West can hardly imagine.  As an experienced lawyer, long-time student of Russian, Soviet, and post-Soviet studies, and MBA holder, Rosten is perfectly suited to describe the struggles of the Kazakhstan people - and to explain why democracy does not always come as easy as we in America sometimes expect it should.<br /><br />Rosten kept a journal during this particular stay in Kazakhstan, and this Almaty Journal (Almaty is the former national capital in which he resided) evolved into Once in Kazakhstan - as a chronological account of sorts, it is sometimes slightly repetitive in terms of facts, but the personal insights it offers into the people are invaluable.  Those people, one should note, cover a wide spectrum: normal, everyday citizens; college faculty and students; Kazakhs, Russians, Germans, and ethnic Jews; parliamentarians and former parliamentarians; members of the intelligentsia charged with codifying a new set of laws for the nation; the American ambassador to Kazakhstan; and others.  Thus, he can not only detail the frustrating problems of nonexistent garbage pickup, malfunctioning and non-functioning traffic signals, the all-too-common absence of such luxuries as hot water and heat, extensive transportation and travel problems, and the like, he can also offer insight as to why the government seemed powerless to do anything about them.  Rosten also chronicles the pervasive issues associated with the nation's rapid transition from the Russian ruble to new Kazakh currency.  Most intriguingly, however, Rosten tells us how the people felt about democracy and the sweeping changes that independence was bringing to their country.<br /><br />Through Rosten, you really feel as if you get to know - to some real degree - the people of Kazakhstan - the proud Kazakhs who seek to assert their authority, the Russians and Germans who decide to leave Kazakhstan in growing numbers, the small but significant number of ethnic Jews, and the increasing numbers of Moslems.  You go into their homes, experience their unique form of hospitality (which traditionally involves a sheep's head), drink with them (a lot), and share their waits for food, gasoline, and public transportation.  I can't say the book makes me want to visit Kazakhstan any time soon (it takes a hearty soul to endure the Kazakh winter), but this book gives me a wonderful and invaluable understanding of a people seeking to - finally - build a better way of life for themselves.  Now that the former Soviet bloc countries are independent, it does not mean we in the West should abandon or ignore them.  Rosten certainly hasn't, as he has traveled back to the country many times since the months chronicled in this book - in fact, he adds an informative epilogue describing the less than democratic changes in Kazakhstan since the end of his Almaty Journal days.<br /><br />Once in Kazakhstan is immensely informative, but that does not mean it is dry or boring - far from it, in fact.  Rosten is a gifted writer who tells his story in a personal, conversational, utterly fascinating manner.  He communicates to the reader a very real sense of what life is like in this remote country on the other side of the world.to leave Kazakhstan in growing numbers, the small but significant number of ethnic Jews, and the increasing numbers of Moslems.  You go into their homes, experience their unique form of hospitality (which traditionally involves a sheep's head), drink with them (a lot), and share their waits for food, gasoline, and public transportation.  I can't say the book makes me want to visit Kazakhstan any time soon (it takes a hearty soul to endure the Kazakh winter), but this book gives me a wonderful and invaluable understanding of a people seeking to - finally - build a better way of life for themselves.  Now that the former Soviet bloc countries are independent, it does not mean we in the West should abandon or ignore them.  Rosten certainly hasn't, as he has traveled back to the country many times since the months chronicled in this book - in fact, he adds an informative epilogue describing the less than democratic changes in Kazakhstan since the end of his Almaty Journal days. <br /> <br />Once in Kazakhstan is immensely informative, but that does not mean it is dry or boring - far from it, in fact.  Rosten is a gifted writer who tells his story in a personal, conversational, utterly fascinating manner.  He communicates to the reader a very real sense of what life is like in this remote country on the other side of the world.	2005-03-26
307300:US	53016962	R2AN7GUHSWG79	0060736771	449724659	Improbable: A Novel	Books	5	19	21	N	N	An action-packed, truly intelligent thriller	It is always a joy - and a rush - to find a truly intelligent thriller, and that is just what I found in Adam Fawer's Improbable.  There's plenty of action, suspense, and even a little bit of gore here, but a strong, fascinating story is the beating heart that keeps everything else moving.  There is a strong element of scientific theory at the core of this novel, which I as a bona fide nerd delighted in, but those with nonmathematical minds should have no fear, as Fawer takes great pains to explain everything in such a way that it is understandable.  For those who enjoy ruminating upon quantum physics, probability theory, biochemistry, and determinism vs. chaos theory, Improbable offers a bounty of speculations regarding Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, Schrodinger's Cat, and - most of all - Laplace's Demon.  The latter is in fact what this novel is all about, for its main character becomes the very personification of Laplace's Demon.<br /><br />You would think David Caine has enough problems already, as he has devoted his life to the academic study of statistics (but I kid my statistician cohorts).  Actually, Caine has not taught in over a year, ever since he began having seizures attributed to temporal lobe epilepsy.  When we first meet him, he is pursuing his gambling vice at a shady Russian game room, losing big on a sure-thing bet just before suffering a major seizure.  He wakes up very much in debt to his Russian Mafioso friends and helpless against the mentally debilitating effects of his seizures.  His doctor recommends an experimental drug, as nothing else can possibly help him.  Having a schizophrenic identical twin makes Caine fear a possible break with reality, but he figures he has little to lose and volunteers for the new treatment - which definitely has an effect on him.  He soon finds himself seeing possible futures at any given time, a power which comes in handy when you're trying to evade Russian gambling debt collectors as well as elite forces of the NSA and FBI.  Unknowingly, David has become the successful test case of a scientist trying to make Laplace's Demon a reality - an individual who can see and know past, present, and future.<br /><br />A rogue CIA agent with a past even her employers know nothing about is put on David's trail.  Nava has her own agenda, but she ends up becoming David's greatest ally, using her expertise to help keep him alive.  As David grows into his new-found power to determine the best course of action available in order to achieve the most desired result, he reestablishes some control over his own future.  That actually makes his life harder than ever, as the best possible outcome sometimes requires sacrifice and pain.  The thrill of the chase occupies the first two-thirds or so of the story, after which point things slow down a little bit, but there are plenty of fireworks left over for the closing chapters.<br /><br />Fawer makes great use of scientific ideas in order to lay the foundation of this intricate yet tightly wound story; he does go a little bit textbook from time to time, but such detail is necessary in order to sell the science fiction aspects of the story completely.  I must admit I seemed to miss the occurrence of one important plot twist (which may be my own fault), but the rest of the novel was meticulously laid out.  Only in the final chapters does one get a true appreciation of the vast interconnectedness of everything in the novel, but it is the almost non-stop action of Caine's flight from his pursuers that impresses itself upon you the most.  Fawer is a talented writer, probably one of the few people on earth who can actually make statistics and probability exciting.  In my opinion, Improbable is one of the most impressive thrillers to come along in quite a while.s of the NSA and FBI.  Unknowingly, David has become the successful test case of a scientist trying to make Laplace's Demon a reality - an individual who can see and know past, present, and future.   <br /> <br />A rogue CIA agent with a past even her employers know nothing about is put on David's trail.  Nava has her own agenda, but she ends up becoming David's greatest ally, using her expertise to help keep him alive.  As David grows into his new-found power to determine the best course of action available in order to achieve the most desired result, he reestablishes some control over his own future.  That actually makes his life harder than ever, as the best possible outcome sometimes requires sacrifice and pain.  The thrill of the chase occupies the first two-thirds or so of the story, after which point things slow down a little bit, but there are plenty of fireworks left over for the closing chapters.  <br /> <br />Fawer makes great use of scientific ideas in order to lay the foundation of this intricate yet tightly wound story; he does go a little bit textbook from time to time, but such detail is necessary in order to sell the science fiction aspects of the story completely.  I must admit I seemed to miss the occurrence of one important plot twist (which may be my own fault), but the rest of the novel was meticulously laid out.  Only in the final chapters does one get a true appreciation of the vast interconnectedness of everything in the novel, but it is the almost non-stop action of Caine's flight from his pursuers that impresses itself upon you the most.  Fawer is a talented writer, probably one of the few people on earth who can actually make statistics and probability exciting.  In my opinion, Improbable is one of the most impressive thrillers to come along in quite a while.	2005-03-21
309503:US	53016962	R1UE8BDQ0P9F7F	0451459725	793720681	The Caves of Buda	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Deeply impressive dark fantasy	In the heavens of fantasy, Leah R. Cutter is a new, brightly shining star distinguished as much for her attention to historical/legendary detail as for her sharply poignant prose.  She does not describe the settings in which her fiction takes place; she transports you there in such a way that you experience all the sights and sounds of the drama for yourself.  In her first novel, Paper Mage, she recreated the world of China during the Tang Dynasty.  Now, in The Caves of Buda, she takes the reader on a detail-oriented excursion to the living world of Hungary, where a powerful demon waits for the curses that turned him to stone to be eradicated - and for the former young child with whom his destiny has become intertwined to return and so begin the end game of his release from captivity deep within the caves outside Budapest.<br /><br />We all have our demons; in the case of Laci (pronounced LAH -tsee), an old man now living in Arizona, the demons are all too real.  As a young boy in war-torn Hungary, Laci encountered the demon Belusz in the caves of Buda.  Forced into the foul thing's presence by horrific magicians who used to be men, Laci lost his own magical sight but managed to return the demon's curse before escaping.  Twelve years later, Laci fled Hungary with his little girl after the Communists killed his wife, and he is now an old man suffering the loss of his mental faculties.  Dementia has taken away a large part of the man that Laci's granddaughter Zita knows and loves, so the young lady puts little stock in her grandfather's ravings about returning to Hungary to kill the demon.  Then her grandfather escapes from the hospital, and Zita finds herself hurrying across the world to search for him in the land of his birth, unaware of the dark and painful part she will play in the end game of demonic infiltration.  The lifting of the first four of five curses is linked to dark events in human history, and only Laci knows the danger that the whole world will face should Belusz be freed completely of his bonds.<br /><br />Ephraim Cohen also makes his way to Hungary, breaking free of the chains of ritual and changelessness that have always bound him.  In the land of his ancestors, Cohen discovers that the rituals he has always relied upon subconsciously are more than just empty motions, for he has magic within him, the kind of magic Belusz needs to gain his freedom - and the kind of magic Laci, now joined by Zita, needs in order to stop and kill the demon.  By the time the trio comes together, the reality of demonic forces is no longer a matter of speculation, and the three unite in a desperate attempt to save the world from unimaginable horror.<br /><br />These are complex characters drawn with masterful touches by Cutter.  Past and present interweave in Laci's troubled mind, drawing the reader into Hungary's troubled past as well as its demon-threatened present.  Zita and Ephraim are deeply human characters battling their own demons in preparation for the fight to come with Belusz.  Laci must overcome his great fear and the dementia that makes his thought processes a tangled web of reason and unreason; Zita must conquer the fear that she will fail and disappoint the grandfather she loves so dearly as well as overcome her weakness for external control currently represented by her unfeeling boyfriend back home; Ephraim must come to terms with the unhappiness of his old life and recognize the intrinsic self-worth of his own existence.  The ultimate confrontation with Belusz, when it comes, holds surprises for the reader and plays out in a marvelously crafted fashion.<br /><br />Cutter's commitment to her writing is impressive indeed.  At the end of the book you will find a rarity among novels - a bibliography of works consulted in the construction of the history, myth, and tradition of the entire novel.  The Caves of Buda is a product of both extensive research and the magical creativity of Cutter's inspired imagination, and the end result is a highly literary novel that takes on a living and breathing life of its own.tion, and the end result is a highly literary novel that takes on a living and breathing life of its own.	2005-03-19
315579:US	53016962	R2Q0F7C4FA0NBJ	0595311849	125282483	Out of the Blue: Book One of Project Infinity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An entertaining science fiction excursion of a novel	Tom Inabnet's Out of the Blue is basically your good, old-fashioned sci-fi thrill ride of a novel.  It's not perfect, and it's not going to change the world, but it is a fast, enjoyable read packed with betrayals, scientific breakthroughs, and some really big explosions.  The Infinity Device is the hottest, most hush-hush, and certainly most dangerous scientific endeavor since the Manhattan Project.  After twenty years of intense work, Dr. Dalton Parker stands at the cusp of history, preparing to test his extraordinary matter transference device for the first time.  It is anticipated to revolutionize space travel, allowing for the instant transferal of an item, or person, or ship to a designated target.  The military implications of such a device are more than obvious, of course, and we all well know that there are forces in the world more than happy to betray the human race (and America in particular) in the interests of money.  Everything seems to be going right on schedule - until the night before the scheduled test, when the lab completely disappears in a devastating explosion.  The military quickly descends in full force, seeking answers and asking pointed questions.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the lab and its occupants (Dr. Parker, who arrived just before the explosion, after sensing something was very wrong; Sheri Armstrong, Parker's combative and egotistical assistant, whose unauthorized - at least by Parker - test had triggered the explosion; and lead technician Frank Rosato) turn up somewhere in the jungles of South America.  It soon becomes clear that whatever happened was no accident - the lab has effectively been stolen.  A notorious arms dealer had penetrated the secrecy of the project, and - thanks largely to Dr. Parker's ex-wife - transported it to its current location.  The plan had been to \\"recruit\\" Armstrong and not the idealistic Parker, but since he came along for the ride, they decide to use him as much as they can - at least until the lab's secrets are all revealed, the whole thing is once again transmitted to a ready-made secure location, and his presence is no longer needed - or desired.  Parker and Armstrong, individuals with little use for one another in the past, must now work together if they are going to survive and - more importantly - keep the secrets of the Infinity Device out of the hands of terrorists.<br /><br />The one weakness of the novel involves characterization.  Certainly, a life-threatening experience such as the one Parker and Armstrong manage to live through can bring two individuals closer together, but these two focused and contentious scientists quickly proceed to forget all of their many differences and fall madly in love.  The interpersonal dynamics of this relationship just don't seem to ring true to me.  Other characters are drawn quite well, however, especially the duplicitous head of the original project and the military man determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.<br /><br />Out of the Blue may be a tad formulaic in its basic design, but it's an entertaining read without any real pretensions.  It's sort of like watching one of those good old vintage science fiction movies on Saturday afternoon.  I certainly enjoyed the experience enough to look forward to the next installment in the Project Infinity series.ets are all revealed, the whole thing is once again transmitted to a ready-made secure location, and his presence is no longer needed - or desired.  Parker and Armstrong, individuals with little use for one another in the past, must now work together if they are going to survive and - more importantly - keep the secrets of the Infinity Device out of the hands of terrorists.   <br /> <br />The one weakness of the novel involves characterization.  Certainly, a life-threatening experience such as the one Parker and Armstrong manage to live through can bring two individuals closer together, but these two focused and contentious scientists quickly proceed to forget all of their many differences and fall madly in love.  The interpersonal dynamics of this relationship just don't seem to ring true to me.  Other characters are drawn quite well, however, especially the duplicitous head of the original project and the military man determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.   <br /> <br />Out of the Blue may be a tad formulaic in its basic design, but it's an entertaining read without any real pretensions.  It's sort of like watching one of those good old vintage science fiction movies on Saturday afternoon.  I certainly enjoyed the experience enough to look forward to the next installment in the Project Infinity series.	2005-03-14
318477:US	53016962	R73BAYLSVTJ62	0451459806	46620192	Covenants: A Borderlands Novel	Books	5	40	44	N	N	One of the most impressive fantasy debuts of recent memory	Covenants is a fascinating, stellar fantasy novel that will have many readers scrambling to find all of Lorna Freeman's previous novels - but there are no previous Lorna Freeman novels.  The book reads as if it is the work of a master craftsman in the genre, but Covenants is in fact the author's first published work.  This novel is so engaging that I actually read it twice.  The action takes place in a world divided into two kingdoms, one human and the other Faena.  The Border kingdom is made up of \\"magical\\" creatures of all shapes and sizes - dragons, fairies, sprites, elves, and the like.  They once called the land of Iversterre home, and they trounced the human army of Iversterre once before in the not too distant past.  Mysterious forces at work threaten to bring war to the land once again.<br /><br />Rabbit is a regular soldier in the Royal Army of Iversterre, a self-described farmer's son who left the Border in order to see the world; when we meet him, he and his entire troop are lost, right on the outskirts of their base in Freston.  Up in the hills, Rabbit encounters a Fae cat named Laurel, and a meal covenant between the two sets the stage for a grand adventure that takes the reader to the heart of the royal palace in Iversterre and then all the way to Elanwryfindyll, a coastal city deep within the Border kingdom itself.  Laurel has come from the Borderlands on a mission of peace, and Rabbit soon finds himself playing a crucial role in preventing another war between Iversterre and the land of his birth.  A number of secrets are revealed as Rabbit and his fellow troopers accompany Laurel to Iversterre, including the fact that Rabbit is actually a cousin to King Jusson of Iversterre and family to many of the leading members of the human aristocracy.  Rabbit holds an even deeper secret than that, though - one that has everything to do with why he left the Border kingdom in the first place.<br /><br />War appears to be imminent; raiders have plundered the Borderland, killing significant numbers of its sacred residents and turning them into staffs, furniture, armor, and the like.  It turns out that significant conspiracies - against both King Jusson of Iversterre and the High Council of the Borderlands - are afoot.  The novel takes a number of twists and turns, staying ever fresh, exciting, and unpredictable.  Even Rabbit's commanding officers are much more than they seem.  The whole novel is in fact filled with all manner of fascinating characters, human as well as \\"magical,\\" and the complexity of the interpersonal and professional relationships keeps this story zooming along in a highly addictive manner.  Things can be confusing a bit early on, especially when Rabbit begins seeing men in their translated (magical) form, but all is made clear when the reader learns just who and what Rabbit actually is.  For his part, Rabbit is a remarkably normal, likeable character who wants nothing more than to be an anonymous soldier but is compelled to become a hero by the remarkable circumstances of his heritage.<br /><br />Covenants easily secures a spot on my list of \\"must read\\" fantasy novels.  Freeman has written a highly entertaining, refreshingly original story that proceeds at a fast pace, introduces us to dozens of unforgettable characters (not to mention spirits), and takes us to a world brimming with fantastical possibilities and intrigues.  There is also a lot of humor to be found in these pages.  The plot itself is rather complex, but Freeman's writing is so polished and well-nigh perfect that few readers should have any problems keeping up.  The story is told in the first person, from Rabbit's viewpoint, so the reader feels as if he is right there each and every step (and surprise) of the way.  It takes a special kind of writer to make a first-person fantasy novel work, and Lorna Freeman shows herself to be more than up to the challenge.  Covenants is an extraordinary debut by a rising star in the fantasy genre.significant numbers of its sacred residents and turning them into staffs, furniture, armor, and the like.  It turns out that significant conspiracies - against both King Jusson of Iversterre and the High Council of the Borderlands - are afoot.  The novel takes a number of twists and turns, staying ever fresh, exciting, and unpredictable.  Even Rabbit's commanding officers are much more than they seem.  The whole novel is in fact filled with all manner of fascinating characters, human as well as \\"magical,\\" and the complexity of the interpersonal and professional relationships keeps this story zooming along in a highly addictive manner.  Things can be confusing a bit early on, especially when Rabbit begins seeing men in their translated (magical) form, but all is made clear when the reader learns just who and what Rabbit actually is.  For his part, Rabbit is a remarkably normal, likeable character who wants nothing more than to be an anonymous soldier but is compelled to become a hero by the remarkable circumstances of his heritage.      Covenants easily secures a spot on my list of \\"must read\\" fantasy novels.  Freeman has written a highly entertaining, refreshingly original story that proceeds at a fast pace, introduces us to dozens of unforgettable characters (not to mention spirits), and takes us to a world brimming with fantastical possibilities and intrigues.  There is also a lot of humor to be found in these pages.  The plot itself is rather complex, but Freeman's writing is so polished and well-nigh perfect that few readers should have any problems keeping up.  The story is told in the first person, from Rabbit's viewpoint, so the reader feels as if he is right there each and every step (and surprise) of the way.  It takes a special kind of writer to make a first-person fantasy novel work, and Lorna Freeman shows herself to be more than up to the challenge.  Covenants is an extraordinary debut by a rising star in the fantasy genre.	2005-03-12
322338:US	53016962	R2PSB5IWAVNFO5	0976118106	681760545	Railroaded!	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A heart-pounding, thought-provoking, unforgettable thriller	Whitfield Grant's Railroaded! is an enthralling read that really does keep your fingers turning the pages in a mad dash for the finish line.  It is also a profoundly personal story that exposes the ugliness of racism in society and compels you to reexamine the world around you and take an active role in rooting out injustice and prejudice so that no one has to face the kind of ordeal the main character suffers through in these pages.<br /><br />The book opens with a young Tony Williams witnessing the lynching of his cousin at the hands of the 1964 Mississippi Klan for the \\"crime\\" of striking up a relationship with a white girl.  After this short but powerful opener, we're introduced to the man Tony Williams becomes and to a couple of his closest friends.  Tony and his buddy Adrian Christopher are amazingly talented athletes with Olympic medals at home and current starting jobs in the NFL (for the Steelers and the Broncos, respectively), while the somewhat more bookish Errol Forrest, Jr., is pursuing a law degree.  The multi-talented trio plan to open their own architecture firm after their football and law school days are over.  All three men are a little too perfect to be believed, but they prove to be incredibly engaging characters to the reader.  Everything is going wonderfully until Tony, ever faithful to his wife, turns down the advances of a young white woman at a Pro Bowl party in Hawaii.  A few months later, he and his wife begin receiving harassing letters from the spurned female, who turns out to be none other than the Steelers' owner's daughter.  Then Tony is injured by a malicious and premeditated cheap shot in a preseason game, at which point the randy young lady makes yet another play for the man who spurned her - and is forcibly rejected by Tony.  Frustrated a second time, Marianne Scott soon turns up with a battered face and accuses Tony of raping and assaulting her.<br /><br />The town of Pittsburgh is torn apart as the Steelers' beloved free safety is accused of such a heinous crime.  Few believe the charges, but Marianne is relentless in her quest for \\"justice.\\"  A gung-ho rookie prosecutor, with an eye toward promotion, is determined to win the case at any cost, and thus begins a remarkably tainted courtroom drama that threatens to ruin the life of a truly honorable man.  The trial is almost farcical at times, thanks to an unscrupulous judge and heaping helpings of perjury on the stand.  The legal proceedings are only half of the story, however, as powerful and mysterious forces are working outside the legal system to utterly destroy Tony Williams.  Racial violence is unleashed by a gang of Klansmen imported from Mississippi to harass the defendant, a key investigator follows his own deadly agenda, and the very lives of Tony and his friends soon come to hang in the balance.<br /><br />As a few other reviewers have mentioned, the first few chapters are a little off-putting, as the author supplies the reader with the background information on the story's idealized young heroes, but Grant puts the pedal to the metal and doesn't let up on the gas once Tony is assaulted on the field and charged with heinous crimes by the insufferably spiteful Marianne Scott.  Tony's fear of associating with white women, born of his childhood memory of his cousin's lynching at the hands of the Klan, makes the courtroom action all the more intense.  I fell completely into Grant's fictional world, burning with anger as the series of injustices and judicial shenanigans battered down the walls of Tony's innocent life, feeling utter contempt for the Scott family and their extralegal actions, and experiencing a profound and heartfelt shock as the novel neared its close.<br /><br />Railroaded! is a truly powerful novel that will leave an indelible mark on your soul.  A line that appears on the cover of my copy of the book sums up the theme of the novel quite well: \\"sometimes being a good man just isn't enough.\\"  That is a point that isall too true in this world, and it is refreshing to encounter an author who does not don rose-colored glasses when he begins to pen his novel's closing chapters.  Railroaded! is an incredible thriller, but it is also a book that conveys a clear-cut and thought-provoking message in a tremendously effective way.int that is all too true in this world, and it is refreshing to encounter an author who does not don rose-colored glasses when he begins to pen his novel's closing chapters.  Railroaded! is an incredible thriller, but it is also a book that conveys a clear-cut and thought-provoking message in a tremendously effective way.	2005-03-09
326883:US	53016962	R3W32LZG7DDU9B	0451428218	539330153	Deathstalker Return	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The much-anticipated return of Owen Deathstalker	Two hundred years have passed since Owen Deathstalker and his companions overthrew a corrupt Empire and saved humanity from the seemingly insurmountable threat of the Recreated.  Owen Deathstalker, Hazel D'Ark, Jack Random, Ruby Journey - they are just legends now, the details of their exploits removed from the historical record because the new king and queen thought that the people would be more inspired by legend than a history that revealed their human weaknesses.  Thanks to Owen, the Empire did indeed enter into a Golden Age, the enemies of Humanity either defeated or incorporated as newly established allies.  Now that great era of peace and interspecies cooperation is falling apart, eaten away from within by a power-hungry former enforcer of justice and threatened from without by the prophesied arrival of the Terror.  Owen Deathstalker warned of the coming danger in his final message, and now everyone in the Empire looks to him to return and save the day once again, for legend decrees that he alone can defeat the apocalyptic menace of the Terror.<br /><br />Owen Deathstalker's story was told over the course of five incredibly exciting novels.  Deathstalker Legacy took up the story two hundred years later, introducing us to a new Deathstalker in Lewis, a noble Paragon who was named King Douglas' Champion and then branded a traitor when he ran off with the king's intended bride Jesamine Flowers.  Outlawed just like his famous predecessor, Lewis eventually teamed up with a most unusual team of individuals and set off to find - he hoped - the blessed Owen Deathstalker.  The new gang of heroes does not even begin to compare with the legendary heroes of the past.  Lewis is yet to prove himself a true Deathstalker in my eyes; his great love Jesamine Flowers is a spoiled and shallow diva who goes on and on about the comforts she has given up for her love of Lewis; Brett Random, who claims to be descended from both Jack Random and Ruby Journey (although no one believes it but him) is an insult to the very name of Random, a sniveling con man and complainer who deals with every danger by running away from it; Rose Constantine is a bloodthirsty killer from the Arenas who keeps trying to be human - usually failing miserably at it; and Saturday is a giant reptiloid alien who comes along just to kill as many people as possible.<br /><br />Then there's the traitorous, power-hungry villain, Finn Durandal.  Empress Lionstone was a worthy opponent, the kind of evil dictator you could at least respect for her calculating inhumanity.  Durandal is just a closet sociopath who betrayed everything he used to be as a noble Paragon in order to scheme his way to power, triggered mainly by the jealousy he felt when Lewis Deathstalker was chosen over him as King Douglas' Champion.  Durandal is a great schemer, a far-thinking man who manages to exploit both friends and enemies for his own purposes, but he's really just an extremely petty man whose path to power is just ridiculously easy given all of the infamous deeds he goes about doing.<br /><br />Deathstalker Return is in some ways a return trip down memory lane.  Lewis Deathstalker and his ill-sorted allies retrace much of the path followed by the legendary Owen himself, stopping off on Lachrymose Christi and Shandrakor before proceeding to Haden, the home of the Madness Maze which gave Owen Deathstalker and his companions the superhuman powers that helped them become the venerated saviors of humanity.  The trip to Haden isn't always that enjoyable; the constant bickering back and forth between our new heroes falls far short of recapturing the sort of give and take that made earlier Deathstalker novels so entertaining.  Everything that worked so well for Simon R. Green in the past really rings hollow now.  Green seemingly needs Owen Deathstalker to return just as badly as the crumbling Empire does - in Owen mode, Green's story immediately transforms itself into the captivating space opera that mademe such a huge Deathstalker fan to begin with.<br /><br />One thing Green never fails to deliver is a litany of shocking surprises.  You have to wait a little longer than usual this time around, but Deathstalker Return has a host of monkey wrenches to throw into the inner workings of the ongoing Deathstalker saga, including a final revelation that will have fans waiting with baited breath for the next installment in this incredible series.<br /><br />You don't necessarily need to read the first five volumes of the life and times of Owen Deathstalker (Deathstalker, Deathstalker Rebellion, Deathstalker War, Deathstalker Honor, and Deathstalker Destiny) in order to enjoy this novel (although you will miss out on a lot without the background those novels provide), but you will certainly want to read Deathstalker Legacy before immersing yourself in the complex plot of Deathstalker Return.  There is just too much going on here for you to jump in unprepared.that made me such a huge Deathstalker fan to begin with. <br /> <br />One thing Green never fails to deliver is a litany of shocking surprises.  You have to wait a little longer than usual this time around, but Deathstalker Return has a host of monkey wrenches to throw into the inner workings of the ongoing Deathstalker saga, including a final revelation that will have fans waiting with baited breath for the next installment in this incredible series.   <br /> <br />You don't necessarily need to read the first five volumes of the life and times of Owen Deathstalker (Deathstalker, Deathstalker Rebellion, Deathstalker War, Deathstalker Honor, and Deathstalker Destiny) in order to enjoy this novel (although you will miss out on a lot without the background those novels provide), but you will certainly want to read Deathstalker Legacy before immersing yourself in the complex plot of Deathstalker Return.  There is just too much going on here for you to jump in unprepared.	2005-03-05
330097:US	53016962	R3LFINA33736LT	0393325075	674026810	Simply Einstein: Relativity Demystified	Books	5	29	34	N	N	You don't have to be an Einstein to understand Einstein	As this book makes clear, everything is not relative - but I would say that Richard Wolfson's attempt to describe Einstein's theories and their implications is relatively successful.  He takes you toward Einsteinian thought one step at a time.  First, he gives you a grounding in Newtonian physics, then walks you through Einstein's special theory of relativity, using a number of examples designed to simplify your conceptualization of ideas that tend to go against common sense thinking, and then he attempts to summarize Einstein's general theory of relativity - which, by its nature, is more difficult to expound upon using models and logical examples.  Finally, he touches upon some of the implications of the general theory of relativity, giving the reader a quick trek through the notions of black holes, the future of the universe, and other largely astrophysical theories and concepts.<br /><br />Simply Einstein is written for a layman audience, but it is by no means an easy read.  I really believe you have to have at least some affinity with mathematics and logic in order to really grasp what Wolfson is saying.  Of course, those with no such affinity will - I feel safe to say - never even think about reading a book such as this.  Wolfson works very hard to provide numerous examples of the theories and concepts of Einsteinian thought, but you can't just breeze through these things and expect to have everything click into place automatically; oftentimes, you have to stop, review, and ponder what you have just read in order to truly get a handle on things.  Wolfson's examples are, it seems to me, two-edged swords of a kind.  If you know absolutely nothing about relativity, they are quite good and certainly helpful.  If, however, you already have some familiarity with the space-time paradoxes of Einsteinian thought (the twin paradox, for example, or the space and time \\"distortions\\" of near-light speed travel), a few of Wolfson's examples muck up the water, at least temporarily - you basically have to forget what relativity theory you already know and start again from scratch in order to fully grasp what the author is attempting to show with each example.<br /><br />Wolfson does do a great job demonstrating the significant differences between Newtonian physics and Einsteinian physics (as well as clearing up popular misconceptions about both subjects), and his information on gravity is enlightening and informative.  By the time he gets around to stating that gravity is not a force per se, he has built the foundation upon which he can prove why this is the case.  Going further, this allows him to offer an excellent explanation of the curvature of space-time owing to the presence of matter or energy throughout the universe.<br /><br />If you just want to read about black holes and other fascinating aspects of the universe, this isn't the book for you.  That kind of discussion is rather protracted here and comes only after a lot of theory has been introduced and described in some detail.  Of course, to truly understand the strangest and most fascinating aspects of our universe, you really do need to have a decent grasp on the general theory of relativity, and this book makes for an excellent introduction to that very subject.porarily - you basically have to forget what relativity theory you already know and start again from scratch in order to fully grasp what the author is attempting to show with each example. <br /> <br />Wolfson does do a great job demonstrating the significant differences between Newtonian physics and Einsteinian physics (as well as clearing up popular misconceptions about both subjects), and his information on gravity is enlightening and informative.  By the time he gets around to stating that gravity is not a force per se, he has built the foundation upon which he can prove why this is the case.  Going further, this allows him to offer an excellent explanation of the curvature of space-time owing to the presence of matter or energy throughout the universe.  <br /> <br />If you just want to read about black holes and other fascinating aspects of the universe, this isn't the book for you.  That kind of discussion is rather protracted here and comes only after a lot of theory has been introduced and described in some detail.  Of course, to truly understand the strangest and most fascinating aspects of our universe, you really do need to have a decent grasp on the general theory of relativity, and this book makes for an excellent introduction to that very subject.	2005-03-02
334060:US	53016962	R87PR1TFNM9MC	0451214242	794032457	Silent Witness (Signet Novel)	Books	5	82	84	N	N	A meticulously constructed, emotionally powerful thriller	Josie Baylor-Bates had given up her lucrative criminal defense practice some years ago, after a former client, one she successfully defended on a murder charge, turned around and killed her own children.  She retreated to the small community of Hermosa Beach and a nice and quiet little law practice.  Then a former college roommate asked her to defend her daughter, a troubled teen accused of killing her step-grandfather, a justice on the California Supreme Court.  That case, the subject of Forster's previous novel Hostile Witness, took a lot out of Josie and changed her life in many ways; she might not have gotten through the ordeal at all without the support of her ex-cop lover Archer.  Now she stands to lose Archer, as Silent Witness opens with his arrest for the murder of Timothy Wren, his physically and mentally handicapped step-son, two years ago.<br /><br />Josie now learns that there is a lot about Archer that she never knew.  She knew he had been married before and that his wife had died of cancer, but the man she loves had never mentioned his wife's son or described the horrible manner of his death - a fall from an amusement park ride at nearby Pacific Park.  He is less than forthcoming about the incident now, despite the murder charge hanging over his head.  Josie, of course, insists on defending him, even when he says he doesn't want her help.  Her plans for getting the charges dropped before the case goes to court are pretty much dashed when she views security camera footage from the park that shows Archer making a movement toward Tim just before he fell to his death.  All of the self-doubts that have plagued her since her mother abandoned her at thirteen threaten to come to the fore as she struggles to formulate a defense and battle the twinges of doubt over Archer's guilt that sometimes pop up as the evidence seems to mount against her lover and client.  She knows the case is much too personal for her, but she cannot trust anyone else with Archer's very life on the line.  Archer isn't a big help, keeping information from her and doing a few really stupid things that an ex-cop should know better than to do in a situation such as his.<br /><br />Josie steels herself to be Archer's lawyer first and foremost, even if it means losing Archer from her life when everything is said and done and the courtroom drama brought to an end.  She is sure that the amusement park is hiding something.  The charge against Archer only came out after Timothy's natural father, the man who had abandoned his own son and wife a decade earlier, sued the park for damages in relation to his son's death.  Colin Wren, for his part, is something of a sinister character who soon casts his ire upon Archer, but Wren's attorney, Jude Getts, proves to be a big asset to Josie and her case.  A number of additional fascinating characters weave their way through the story in memorable and oftentimes mysterious ways.<br /><br />I have to say that, while I think this novel is just terrific, I didn't enjoy it as much as I enjoyed Hostile Witness - largely because the defendant in this case, Archer, is so hostile and secretive throughout his ordeal that he makes Josie's job even harder than it already is.  Hannah Sheraton, who is now living with Josie and trying to put her tragic young life back together, was a very sympathetic character in Hostile Witness, but Archer is not - especially in terms of his rigid and in some ways heartless feelings toward the step-son he never wanted and never loved.  Certainly, the pain dredged up over the tragic fate of Tim and the premature loss of his beloved wife Lexi are touching, but he's a hard man to really like.  Additionally, the mystery of what really happened at Pacific Park on that fateful day doesn't leave room for the sorts of conundrums that wound their way through every page of Hostile Witness.  That being said, the novel really goes into overdrive the final one hundred pages and closes with a real bang.<br /><br/>Legal thriller fans should find themselves entranced by this novel.  Forster has amazing skill at breathing real life into her characters, including both the good and bad inside each of them, and she is meticulous at leaving no loose ends hanging from the story she weaves.  Nor does she give anything away too early, keeping readers alert and guessing until the end.  It's a winning formula sure to impress and fascinate fans of legal thrillers.ng.   <br /> <br />Legal thriller fans should find themselves entranced by this novel.  Forster has amazing skill at breathing real life into her characters, including both the good and bad inside each of them, and she is meticulous at leaving no loose ends hanging from the story she weaves.  Nor does she give anything away too early, keeping readers alert and guessing until the end.  It's a winning formula sure to impress and fascinate fans of legal thrillers.	2005-02-27
335766:US	53016962	R3HC4VDB43LUVD	0595303013	185198410	The Piaculum: a novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stunning in its dark vision and enlightening complexity	The Piaculum is a book that has seared itself into my memory with its singular vision, darkly compelling storyline, and truly moving conclusion.  I was originally drawn to the dark fantasy elements of the novel, but The Piaculum far exceeded my expectations.  It's a dark tale, to be sure, but it is also an enlightening one with a religious and humanistic depth that burns with the light of true inspiration.  I was moved to a few tears by the powerful, uplifting, and incredibly inspirational final chapters and I remain somewhat stunned by the intellectual and emotional depth displayed in Richard Gray's incredible first novel.  Like any work of such vision and power, The Piaculum is a book destined to be either loved or hated, depending on the reader.  The darkness and suffering laid bare throughout the story as it progresses will disturb some readers and possibly even disconnect some from the story, and the religious aspects will also doubtless turn others away as well, but many readers, I feel sure, will bear the cross of the main character's suffering and find solace if not joy in the novel's incredibly powerful conclusion.<br /><br />I was utterly fascinated by the concept of this novel.  The Piaculum takes place in a distant future, a new Dark Age in which mankind is split into two distinct groups.  On the one hand you have the Mone, a primitive but Christian society, which follows the teachings of The Book of Testaments.  On the other hand, you have the Kathe, a more urban, technologically superior culture that is based upon a cult of blood.  The Kathe believe that no man may go to heaven unless their sins are paid, literally, in blood.  This holy blood is shed by the Piaculum, living gods they construct out of special Mones and Kathes born with \\"the white mark.\\"  The Piaculum are believed to go to hell, carrying the sins of the Kathe with them, and their blood is shed routinely for the salvation of the Kathe who worship them.  The Piaculum, almost always captured as youngsters, are literally fused and encased inside a prison of strong metal cages, their hands and feet gruesomely pierced by the process.  Their shed blood is both worn and drunk by the Kathe as the necessary drops of their salvation.  The Piaculum themselves are essentially brainwashed into believing themselves to be the gods the Shalute, or priests of the Kathe, proclaim them to be.  Every twelve years or so, during the Week of Blood, new Piaculum are captured and forced to endure the agonies of such a life.<br /><br />The Kathe came for Cearl when he was a small child, but he miraculously escaped the Circle of Blood with his life.  Since that traumatic childhood experience, he has lost much in terms of his family and friends, but he has also gained a wife he adores and two children he loves dearly - one of which was born with the white mark.  When his youngest son is five, the Kathe take him, forcing Cearl to deal with all of the horrors of his nightmarish youth once again.  He gives himself to the Kathe in order to save the life of his son, and so begins his life as a Piaculum.  The suffering he endures is great, almost unimaginable, and Gray spares the reader very little in his forceful, painful description of Cearl's new life as a Piaculum.  Cearl, ever faithful to his own God, knows his suffering has a purpose, however, one that goes far beyond the sparing of his little boy back in his Mone village.  Cearl finds strength in the belief that God is using him to change Kathe society, and he works to bring literacy and then salvation to the ignorant followers of the blood cult.<br /><br />It is not always easy to suffer alongside the pains of Cearl in these pages, but the reader is rewarded by a truly moving experience of a power rarely found in dark fantasy.  The resolution of the novel is surprisingly complex as well; Gray does not just throw a fairy tale ending out there - far from it, in fact.  You don't have to be a Christian or a follower of any religion to enjoy the tale, although Christians may find it especially moving; this is truly a novel of human suffering and purpose, as the metallic prison of the Piaculum can mutilate Cearl's body and separate him from human contact, but it can never destroy his humanity.<br /><br />The only negative thing about this novel is its incredibly large number of misspelled words and other editing errors, some of them rather egregious.  It is unfortunate, as this takes a little something away from the reader's experience and forces him to momentarily remember that he is reading rather than experiencing the story himself.  Even taking these distractions into account, though, I believe many readers will find themselves completely immersed in the author's darkly fascinating vision.  I daresay I've never read a novel remotely like The Piaculum before, and I have been immensely rewarded by the experience.ny religion to enjoy the tale, although Christians may find it especially moving; this is truly a novel of human suffering and purpose, as the metallic prison of the Piaculum can mutilate Cearl's body and separate him from human contact, but it can never destroy his humanity.   <br /> <br />The only negative thing about this novel is its incredibly large number of misspelled words and other editing errors, some of them rather egregious.  It is unfortunate, as this takes a little something away from the reader's experience and forces him to momentarily remember that he is reading rather than experiencing the story himself.  Even taking these distractions into account, though, I believe many readers will find themselves completely immersed in the author's darkly fascinating vision.  I daresay I've never read a novel remotely like The Piaculum before, and I have been immensely rewarded by the experience.	2005-02-26
336060:US	53016962	R25DUP7JZV8I09	1413707831	201624098	City Editor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brings a busy newsroom to life for one singular week of news	Speaking as someone who has poked fun at errors in my local newspaper many a time, I have a newfound respect for the newspaper business after reading Larry Peterson's City Editor.  Peterson takes the reader into the hectic world of daily newspaper publishing, one suddenly complicated by an onslaught of unethical interference from above.  Peterson knows his subject well, drawing on years of personal experience as a city news editor himself.  He really brings the hectic newspaper news room to life in this fast and furious chronicle of one singular week of news.<br /><br />Mike Donahue is the city editor of The Times-Herald in Cornwall, South Carolina, a northwesterner recently transplanted to the bucolic American South.  His wife and daughter are still out west trying to sell the house, but it's hard to see how Mike would have much time with them even if they had already joined him.  The job of city editor is a trying one that requires long hours, a perpetual juggling act to keep reporters straight and stories fit to be printed, and a very thick skin when dealing with senior management.  He is fortunate enough to have some good reporters working under him, but some of the young ones still need the type of instruction and training (not to mention rewriting) a city editor is compelled to provide, and there is always some element of internal rivalry at play in the background.  Then there's Chester Rutledge, the paper's executive editor, who has a definite bee in his bonnet where Mike is concerned.<br /><br />It hasn't been a particularly good week.  A recent story got the identities of a murderer and his victim backwards, one of his best reporters is burned out and ready to quit, another reporter submitted an article containing a piece of fiction, and a local congresswoman is determined to get the paper's political reporter fired for what she sees as biased criticism of her positions.  Things really start to heat up, though, in conjunction with a breaking story involving the possible building of a correctional institute for repeat sexual offenders in the county.  The governor has denied the possibility of such a decision, but Mike gets his hands on an official memo from the Department of Prisons that suggests otherwise.  What Mike finds really disturbing, however, is the proactive attempts of the paper's executive editor to squelch the story before it can even be investigated properly.  Mike and a coterie of loyal reporters almost find themselves making the news rather than merely reporting it as things soon get a bit ugly.  Mike puts his job and possibly even his life on the line in order to pursue a story of dirty politics, greed, unethical behavior, and murder.<br /><br />I would imagine this novel is very instructional when it comes to those considering journalism as a career; not only does it chronicle the type of atmosphere a budding reporter might expect to find in the real world, it also proves quite instructional in terms of seeing how an unacceptable article is made worthy of print by the experienced hand of an editor.  For a layman such as myself, this thrilling read zooms along at the hectic pace of the busy newsroom, giving the reader a thrilling story with very human characters.  It also gives me a newfound respect for journalists who will fight to preserve the integrity of their profession - one can only wish there were more of them in real life.olving the possible building of a correctional institute for repeat sexual offenders in the county.  The governor has denied the possibility of such a decision, but Mike gets his hands on an official memo from the Department of Prisons that suggests otherwise.  What Mike finds really disturbing, however, is the proactive attempts of the paper's executive editor to squelch the story before it can even be investigated properly.  Mike and a coterie of loyal reporters almost find themselves making the news rather than merely reporting it as things soon get a bit ugly.  Mike puts his job and possibly even his life on the line in order to pursue a story of dirty politics, greed, unethical behavior, and murder. <br /> <br />I would imagine this novel is very instructional when it comes to those considering journalism as a career; not only does it chronicle the type of atmosphere a budding reporter might expect to find in the real world, it also proves quite instructional in terms of seeing how an unacceptable article is made worthy of print by the experienced hand of an editor.  For a layman such as myself, this thrilling read zooms along at the hectic pace of the busy newsroom, giving the reader a thrilling story with very human characters.  It also gives me a newfound respect for journalists who will fight to preserve the integrity of their profession - one can only wish there were more of them in real life.	2005-02-26
337394:US	53016962	R3RLNOHP4C34XF	0451211634	180482494	Hostile Witness	Books	5	495	517	N	N	Absolutely riveting from start to finish	I haven't read many legal thrillers in the past few years, but I think I am going to have to add more books of this genre to my future reading list - especially those written by Rebecca Forster.  Hostile Witness is just a fantastic, completely absorbing read, the kind of book that makes you hate your job because having to get up early for work means having to set the novel aside in the wee hours of the morning just so you can get a few hours of sleep.  Any thriller is best judged by the number of hours' sleep you miss, and Hostile Witness is right up there with the best of them.<br /><br />Usually, legal thrillers have a few passages that are dry and boring or feature cardboard characters lacking any spark of life in them.  Not so with Hostile Witness.  Forster has given life to some vivid, remarkably human characters - the heroic, sympathetic lawyer who puts a painful past behind her to defend a young girl accused of arson and murder; the 16-year-old defendant, a troubled teen lost in emotional chaos and harboring shocking secrets, the girls' seriously dysfunctional mother and step-father seemingly hiding behind mysterious secrets of their own, the hard-nosed yet somehow slightly noble prosecuting attorney, even the victim himself, a man already dead when the novel begins.<br /><br />The protagonist of the novel is Josie Baylor-Bates, a lawyer who finds herself back in the criminal defense game she left some years ago.  Not only is she still dealing with the pain of being abandoned by her mother when she was just a young girl, she is haunted by an old case.  An accused murderer she successfully defended (and truly believed to be innocent) turned around and killed again - only this time it was her own children.  The sense of guilt that tragedy engendered in Josie led her to abandon criminal defense cases altogether and settle down in a quiet beach community with a quiet little legal practice.  Then an old college roommate turns up at her door and begs her to defend her daughter.  This will be no ordinary case; it will, in fact, explode all over the media.  The girl, Hannah Sheraton, is accused of killing her step-grandfather, a man who just happened to be a prominent justice on the California Supreme Court.  In the middle of everything is Hannah's step-father, the governor's choice to take his father's place on the high bench.  The case has media circus written all over it - even before a series of shocking revelations about the murdered judge come to light, but Josie agrees to take the case after meeting Hannah.  She sees a little bit of herself in the young girl, a frightened lass with deep emotional troubles manifested outwardly in obsessive-compulsive behavior, self-mutilation, and a powerful overdependence on her mother.<br /><br />Convinced of her client's innocence, Josie's defense of the girl runs into a number of obstacles, including the girl's own mother and step-father, neither of whom, Josie comes to believe, has Hannah's best interests at heart.  All too soon, this case has become intensely personal for Josie, and that leads her to question her own motivations.  Forster does a wonderful job of developing these characters, showing you increasingly significant cracks in their facades while holding out on the goods until the very end.  You have your suspicions, but you just don't know the truth about what is really going on and who is really responsible for the victim's death until the very end.<br /><br />The novel's most memorable moments take place inside the courtroom, culminating in some unforgettable moments of witness testimony, but the case takes drastic turns (more than once) away from all the cameras and watching eyes.  It's an emotional roller coaster for Josie, trying to deal with her own personal baggage alongside the heavy burdens placed upon her by Hannah's incredibly dysfunctional family and the intense pressures of such a high profile trial.  A wondrously human heart beats inside the chest of this particular lawyer, though, and that - plus a beautifully constructed plot - is what makes Hostile Witness a novel you just can't put down.est of this particular lawyer, though, and that - plus a beautifully constructed plot - is what makes Hostile Witness a novel you just can't put down.	2005-02-24
342080:US	53016962	R127JY5R5BOGKW	1932968229	815202227	Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are Wrong	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A valuable but  flawed critique of the three religions	In Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are Wrong, the author attempts to prove that the facts underlying the world's three most prominent religions are in many ways wrong, thus invalidating those religions.  He keeps his own identity and history close to the vest, admitting only that he was once a follower of one of these three religions.  This is a short and straightforward book that quotes extensively from the holy scriptures, but I would argue that it suffers from a number of weaknesses.<br /><br />The author basically takes on each religion one at a time, picking and choosing different elements of each one to be called into question.  It results in a rather haphazard organization of material, repetitive in places and subject to huge gaps in terms of the overall ideas.  After all, attacks on the facts of the great religions are not a new phenomenon, and in many ways this book simply rehashes questions that have been asked before.  The author, to my mind, does not go into enough detail about his arguments, and at times he declares something invalid without proving why or how it is invalid.  In many cases, he strings together collections of scriptural quotations without adequately expounding upon them.  As one example, he says that Old Testament prophecies about the coming Messiah are obscure and varied.  When he lists some of those \\"obscure\\" prophecies, though, he leaves out most of the primary prophecies - including those of Isaiah completely.<br /><br />This leads me to what is, in my opinion, the book's primary weakness: scriptural references are oftentimes given without any attempt to put them into context.  Thus, Jesus Christ is characterized as pro-slavery, anti-women, and an advocate of religious violence.  The author looks at individual lines and words and comes up with interpretations I have never heard voiced in a Christian church.  Since this is a review and not a forum for religious debate, I will not try to argue his points here, but I will say that much of what he says about Christianity is, in my experience, wrong.<br /><br />I cannot speak to the facts of Judaism and - in particular - Islam, although I must note the fact that the author's treatment of Islam was far less detailed than those of Judaism and Christianity.  As for Judaism, the most likely subjects are brought into question - the Creation story, the Great Flood, the escape from captivity in Egypt, etc.<br /><br />Certainly, the author does make some valid and useful points - e.g., the fact that a person chooses his religion largely on the fact that it is the religion he is born into.  He also criticizes the religious in today's modern world for not living up to the teachings of what they believe in.  That is certainly a valid point, but the many sins and mistakes of \\"believers\\" have no relation to the religious \\"facts\\" he set out to question.<br /><br />As a Christian, I do regard this book as a good and useful one.  It is, after all, a short and straightforward assembly of arguments made against religious belief.  I do not really regard the work as an attack on any of the religions at all (although he does seem to reflect some personal bias against Christianity) - I say this mainly because the author sets out to address \\"facts\\" rather than argue issues of faith.  Faith, after all, is at the core of religious belief.  Pondering the types of questions the author poses can actually strengthens one's own religious faith, and that is what - in my opinion as a Christian - makes this book a valuable read.much of what he says about Christianity is, in my experience, wrong.   <br /> <br />I cannot speak to the facts of Judaism and - in particular - Islam, although I must note the fact that the author's treatment of Islam was far less detailed than those of Judaism and Christianity.  As for Judaism, the most likely subjects are brought into question - the Creation story, the Great Flood, the escape from captivity in Egypt, etc.   <br /> <br />Certainly, the author does make some valid and useful points - e.g., the fact that a person chooses his religion largely on the fact that it is the religion he is born into.  He also criticizes the religious in today's modern world for not living up to the teachings of what they believe in.  That is certainly a valid point, but the many sins and mistakes of \\"believers\\" have no relation to the religious \\"facts\\" he set out to question.   <br /> <br />As a Christian, I do regard this book as a good and useful one.  It is, after all, a short and straightforward assembly of arguments made against religious belief.  I do not really regard the work as an attack on any of the religions at all (although he does seem to reflect some personal bias against Christianity) - I say this mainly because the author sets out to address \\"facts\\" rather than argue issues of faith.  Faith, after all, is at the core of religious belief.  Pondering the types of questions the author poses can actually strengthens one's own religious faith, and that is what - in my opinion as a Christian - makes this book a valuable read.	2005-02-21
344117:US	53016962	R1LVKWP2ZPSHDJ	0375508775	799742037	No Greater Glory: The Four Immortal Chaplains and the Sinking of the Dorchester in World War II	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspirational story of love and peace in a fractured world	It is a profound irony that war, man's most inhumane treatment of his fellow man, oftentimes provides the most poignant lessons in humanity, selflessness, and heroism.  The four men honored as the Four Immortal Chaplains would doubtless have eschewed the kind of praise their actions have won over the years, arguing that they were just men doing God's work on earth, but their story will be a source of inspiration and an example of true honor and bravery for all years to come.  The tragedy of 9/11 helped inspire Dan Kurzman to tell their story anew; with No Greater Glory: The Four Immortal Chaplains and the Sinking of the Dorchester in World War II, he succeeds admirably in bringing a spirit of hope and unity to today's fractured world.<br /><br />The Four Immortal Chaplains came from different backgrounds and religious faiths, but the bond of goodness and friendship that bound them together made them spiritual brothers united in the face of a common fate.  George Lansing Fox was a Methodist minister who had already fought heroically and been wounded in World War I; Father John Washington was a young and scrappy Catholic priest who cheated on his eye test in order to qualify for the Army; Clark Poling was a Dutch Reformed minister who left his young family and his famous evangelist father to serve; and Alexander Goode was a brilliant Jewish rabbi consumed by a mission to promote universal brotherhood among all men of all religions.  Each man had not only joined the services as chaplains after the attack on Pearl Harbor, they had each adamantly pursued a combat post overseas.  They never made it to the front, finding themselves posted on the USAT Dorchester as she made her way from the nation's east coast, through Tornado Alley, to Greenland in early 1943.  German U-boats lay in wait underneath the icy waves of the North Atlantic, and on February 3, 1943, the U-223 fired a torpedo which sent the Dorchester to the bottom of the ocean.  It was one of the worst naval disasters in American history, as over 900 men went into the icy sea, two-thirds of them to their deaths - in part due to highly questionable orders from the transport commander who delayed any rescue effort.  Among the dead were the four chaplains, who live on in spirit thanks to their heroism on that awful night.<br /><br />The first half of the book describes the inspiring lives these four chaplains led before joining the army during World War II and the remarkable bond they seemed to share once fate brought them together.  The remainder of the book details the tragedy of the Dorchester and the inspiring actions of the chaplains in reaction to the disaster.  Drawing upon scores of personal and videotaped interviews with survivors and rescuers, Kurzman takes us back to that awful night and details the heroic acts of the Four Immortal Chaplains as they aided and supported the men around them, encouraged and inspired them with the power of their faith, and selflessly gave their own life jackets to others before going down with the ship - arm in arm and united in prayer.<br /><br />In a sense, this is just one famous act of heroism among untold numbers of selfless acts that the world will never even know about.  The story of the Four Immortal Chaplains has a special meaning and significance, though.  They are a symbol of man's greatest hopes, an example to all those who wish for a world of peace where religion unites rather than divides those of different faiths.  Even before World War II came to an end, they were honored in the form of a postage stamp bearing their likenesses (normally, a person cannot be so honored until ten years have passed since his death), and their images still adorn the stained glass windows of many chapels and secular institutions, but it is their indomitable spirit of heroism, brotherly love, and good will that speaks most strongly to us today.  Their legacy lives on as a shining beacon of light in a modern world darkened by religious conflictsand the evils of terrorism.onflicts and the evils of terrorism.	2005-02-19
349911:US	53016962	R2XXFO1QARPHQC	0756401143	384411494	Prince of Dreams (Seven Brothers)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A wonderful expansion of the Seven Brothers saga	The Prince of Dreams continues the quest of young Prince Llesho to find his brothers and reclaim the kingdom of his royal birth.  Benjamin has breathed vivid life into an exotic setting that calls to mind the cultures and legends of ancient and mediaeval Asia; it is a place where gods take many forms in which to interact with man, magic is a potent force for both good and evil, dragons and similar fantastic creatures do exist, and all knowledge seems to come with a price.  Llesho has come a long way since the beginning of The Prince of Shadow.  Enslaved since the age of seven, he believed his brothers had been killed alongside his parents and sister by the Harn raiders who conquered Thebin, the lofty realm which lies at the very foot of the Gates of Heaven.  Then, at age fifteen, fate took a strong hand in his life, embarking him on a quest to find his brothers and take Thebin back from the Harn.<br /><br />As this novel, the second in the Seven Brothers series, opens, Llesho has found two of his brothers and won assistance from the great emperor of Shan.  He and his cadre begin a trek meant to take them through the extensive kingdom of the dangerous Harn on their way toward Thebin.  Among his companions are ChiChu, the trickster god whom Llesho came to know as a teacher and laundryman, loyal friends of his youth, a young witch who can boast of dragon blood in her veins, and the witch and witch's daughter of the Great Goddess herself.  Master Markko, Llesho's greatest enemy, is still out there searching for the young prince, his powers over man and magic increasing daily.  Llesho oftentimes wonders how he can possibly do the job the gods expect of him, especially when things only seem to get worse instead of better.  A group of his most important friends and allies fall into the hands of the evil magician, while Llesho himself is spirited away to Ahkenbad and its dream readers - who do much to greatly increase the weight of the world on his shoulders.  In time, he crosses over into Harn territory, picking up some dangerous and unlikely allies in his mission to save his captured friends and then find and kill Master Markko, the dark magician who haunts his dreams - only then can he hope to make his way home to Thebin.  There will be even more required of him than that, however, as it now becomes clear that the fate of both heaven and earth depends upon his success against overwhelming odds.<br /><br />This novel delineates the maturation process that turns Prince Llesho into the coming king of Thebin; incredible danger, legendary heroics, and the sacrifice of good and true friends can only make him wiser than his sixteen summers.  It finally becomes apparent to him that he did indeed receive the favor of the Great Goddess on his sixteenth birthday, and he learns to hone some of the incredible gifts she blessed him with - foremost among them the ability to take control of his dreams.  He struggles with guilt over those who die fighting for him, resorts to periodical fits of anguish and doubt, but travels far down the road to becoming the man and warrior who can return the very darkness stolen from the heavens by his enemies.<br /><br />Some of the tertiary characters involved here, including some of Llesho's brothers, could do with some fleshing out, but the central cast of characters (gods and man) are wonderfully developed here.  Benjamin is also highly successful at conveying the nuances and subtlety of the gods' mysterious interactions with Llesho as well as the tricky politics of diverse cultures.  With every revelation comes new questions and mysteries, keeping the story fresh and exciting at every turn - just the sort of thing to leave readers clamoring for more in The Gates of Heaven, the final novel in the trilogy.he crosses over into Harn territory, picking up some dangerous and unlikely allies in his mission to save his captured friends and then find and kill Master Markko, the dark magician who haunts his dreams - only then can he hope to make his way home to Thebin.  There will be even more required of him than that, however, as it now becomes clear that the fate of both heaven and earth depends upon his success against overwhelming odds. <br /> <br />This novel delineates the maturation process that turns Prince Llesho into the coming king of Thebin; incredible danger, legendary heroics, and the sacrifice of good and true friends can only make him wiser than his sixteen summers.  It finally becomes apparent to him that he did indeed receive the favor of the Great Goddess on his sixteenth birthday, and he learns to hone some of the incredible gifts she blessed him with - foremost among them the ability to take control of his dreams.  He struggles with guilt over those who die fighting for him, resorts to periodical fits of anguish and doubt, but travels far down the road to becoming the man and warrior who can return the very darkness stolen from the heavens by his enemies. <br /> <br />Some of the tertiary characters involved here, including some of Llesho's brothers, could do with some fleshing out, but the central cast of characters (gods and man) are wonderfully developed here.  Benjamin is also highly successful at conveying the nuances and subtlety of the gods' mysterious interactions with Llesho as well as the tricky politics of diverse cultures.  With every revelation comes new questions and mysteries, keeping the story fresh and exciting at every turn - just the sort of thing to leave readers clamoring for more in The Gates of Heaven, the final novel in the trilogy.	2005-02-14
352428:US	53016962	R2LL15M4IQBQ22	1593440189	367585928	Vanessa - Fallen Colors	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The fifth and final volume of a uniquely wonderful series	I was actually somewhat hesitant to read Vanessa: Fallen Colors - only because I have enjoyed David L. Howells' Vanessa novels tremendously, and I knew this was the fifth and final book in a series I don't want to end.  In many ways, Howells saved his best for last, as this is probably the most engaging book of the series, especially in terms of the core storyline about a special child who sees and talks to a being that may very well be an angel.  When Howells breaks away to talk about the Family, a somewhat unwieldy number of individuals (both living and deceased) whose work to find and help restless spirits pass on to the next plane has been the foundation of this series, some of the focus is lost, however.  There are just so many subplots and storylines thrown into the overall mix by this point that even central figures such as Vanessa and Ryan Fitzgalen, the leaders of the Family, have become minor characters.<br /><br />Vanessa: Fallen Colors is constructed around a youngster named Alex Halder, a highly functional autistic child who comes to the attention of the Family when his caring physicians seek help in understanding an \\"imaginary\\" friend named Anna that seems to be a guardian angel of sorts to the boy.  Melissa Banks of the Family quickly grows to care for the child just as much as Dr. Maxwell Forrester and Nurse Physician Kristy Lange.  Not only does Alex speak to an unknown entity at night, he also sees mysterious globes of light that even the experts of the Family are hard pressed to explain - as even their ghosts and spirit-detecting members cannot identify any presence in those same locations.<br /><br />At the same time, there are increasing signs of something very big on the horizon.  In this future year of 2049, the long-feared California earthquake of epic proportions seems imminent, and disturbing geological changes in the area underneath Old Faithful harbor possibilities of doom and gloom.  As the Family begins to sense these imminent epic changes taking place, the truth about young Alex's friend Anna is revealed, and a crucial message is communicated that will change everything and everybody.<br /><br />Along the way, of course, all of the many Family teams go out on missions to the restless spirits still walking the earth.  While these individual stories are interesting, they take place rather late in the novel and take one's focus away from the heart of the story just before the mysteries of that heart are seemingly about to be revealed.  There seems to be so much left to tell, yet one watches the number of remaining pages shrink drastically as one follows these tangential sub-plots.<br /><br />The big question for me was how this novel - and this series - would end.  Everything pointed to an earth-shaking conclusion of almost unimaginable proportions.  I was a little disappointed that Howells backed away from describing those events firsthand.  It is somewhat understandable, though, as he would have needed a complete novel to really tell the story - which makes me even sadder to see this series end here.  These are wonderful characters I have grown to love over the course of the five Vanessa novels, and I really would like to know their individual fates.  Instead, Howells closes things out with a coda offering tantalizing hints of what happens to the earth and the Family.  I am not saying the ending is not successful; I just want more - more of these characters and more of these books.<br /><br />David L. Howells has written an exceedingly human series of five novels.  Maybe they aren't perfect in their construction and execution, but they are extremely effective and heart-warming books unlike anything else out there.  Reading them has been not only a joy, but a blessing as well.place, the truth about young Alex's friend Anna is revealed, and a crucial message is communicated that will change everything and everybody.      Along the way, of course, all of the many Family teams go out on missions to the restless spirits still walking the earth.  While these individual stories are interesting, they take place rather late in the novel and take one's focus away from the heart of the story just before the mysteries of that heart are seemingly about to be revealed.  There seems to be so much left to tell, yet one watches the number of remaining pages shrink drastically as one follows these tangential sub-plots.    The big question for me was how this novel - and this series - would end.  Everything pointed to an earth-shaking conclusion of almost unimaginable proportions.  I was a little disappointed that Howells backed away from describing those events firsthand.  It is somewhat understandable, though, as he would have needed a complete novel to really tell the story - which makes me even sadder to see this series end here.  These are wonderful characters I have grown to love over the course of the five Vanessa novels, and I really would like to know their individual fates.  Instead, Howells closes things out with a coda offering tantalizing hints of what happens to the earth and the Family.  I am not saying the ending is not successful; I just want more - more of these characters and more of these books.      David L. Howells has written an exceedingly human series of five novels.  Maybe they aren't perfect in their construction and execution, but they are extremely effective and heart-warming books unlike anything else out there.  Reading them has been not only a joy, but a blessing as well.	2005-02-12
353087:US	53016962	RFXXTFGFVGZ81	0756400546	980365240	The Prince of Shadow (Seven Brothers)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The start of a wonderfully human and exotic fantasy series	The Prince of Shadow immerses the reader in a rich and magical world infused with the atmosphere of Eastern legend and culture.  It is a world of magic and great evil, and a young slave stands as its focal point.  Llesho has spent the last eight of his fifteen years as a pearl diver, having been sold into slavery at the age of seven.  Believing himself to be the only surviving member of his family, he has held the secret of his past identity close to his heart.  He is the seventh son of the king of Thebin, a spiritually rich land high in the mountains that stands at the gates of heaven itself.  The Harn, a brutal people, invaded the kingdom, killed the king and queen, and sold Llesho into a life of slavery.  Only one man knows Llesho's story, and that is Lleck, a former minister of Thebin who made his way to Pearl Island and secretly continued the education of his former charge.  As this novel opens, Lleck dies, but his spirit informs Llesho of his destiny - his six brothers are all still alive, and Llesho must find them and go on to restore the kingdom of Thebin.<br /><br />Llesho, a young slave trapped on an island, is a long way from restoring the land his father once ruled.  He asks to be trained as a gladiator, seeing that as his only chance of getting off the island and beginning the search for his brothers.  As he trains to be a fighter, he learns many new things about himself, awakening royal training he had forgotten all about after having accepted the fact he was doomed to be a slave for the rest of his life.  He develops strong bonds with a couple of his masters, men who seem to know more about him than they are letting on, but he also acquires a dangerous enemy in the form of Master Markko, a witch who seeks to exploit and eventually kill Llesho for reasons of his own.<br /><br />In time, Llesho makes his way to the heart of the empire of Shan, but not before encountering a few other steadfast and loyal allies and staring death in the face several times as Markko, now a warlord of sorts whose power base is growing quickly, pursues him.  His small circle of friends do all they can to protect him, but Llesho's survival comes to depend largely on the timely assistance of healers and the magical protection of dragons and highly placed witches.  He suffers a number of physical and emotional burdens along the road to Shan, oftentimes quailing at the prospect of his ever rescuing his beloved kingdom from the bloody grip of the Harn.  By the time he reaches Shan, home of the Celestial Emperor whom Llesho's friends hope to enlist in his rightful cause, the slave child has transformed into the prince he was born to be.  The sight of the slave market brings his past horrors fully back to life, but he finds comfort in the hope that the first of his missing brothers will soon be found in that very city.  By the end of the novel, the cast of heroic characters is redefined, as a number of revelations come to light about the true identities of his friends and allies.<br /><br />I know this isn't the first fantasy series about an unfortunate young man who is really a prince destined to recover everything his family fought and died for, but it is a gripping read nonetheless.  The exotic locale and the introduction of gods and magical creatures into the action keep the tale fresh and exciting, and the human element is very strong as well.  I found Llesho's relationship with a very special bear extraordinarily touching.  Benjamin has peopled his fantasy world with really wonderful characters, and I am anxious to continue the story of Llesho in future volumes of the Seven Brothers series.l times as Markko, now a warlord of sorts whose power base is growing quickly, pursues him.  His small circle of friends do all they can to protect him, but Llesho's survival comes to depend largely on the timely assistance of healers and the magical protection of dragons and highly placed witches.  He suffers a number of physical and emotional burdens along the road to Shan, oftentimes quailing at the prospect of his ever rescuing his beloved kingdom from the bloody grip of the Harn.  By the time he reaches Shan, home of the Celestial Emperor whom Llesho's friends hope to enlist in his rightful cause, the slave child has transformed into the prince he was born to be.  The sight of the slave market brings his past horrors fully back to life, but he finds comfort in the hope that the first of his missing brothers will soon be found in that very city.  By the end of the novel, the cast of heroic characters is redefined, as a number of revelations come to light about the true identities of his friends and allies. <br /> <br />I know this isn't the first fantasy series about an unfortunate young man who is really a prince destined to recover everything his family fought and died for, but it is a gripping read nonetheless.  The exotic locale and the introduction of gods and magical creatures into the action keep the tale fresh and exciting, and the human element is very strong as well.  I found Llesho's relationship with a very special bear extraordinarily touching.  Benjamin has peopled his fantasy world with really wonderful characters, and I am anxious to continue the story of Llesho in future volumes of the Seven Brothers series.	2005-02-11
360609:US	53016962	RROAWCTCGRJRR	075640214X	105445307	Broken Crescent	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good story with a fascinating premise	The idea of treating magic as if it were a computer programming language made me anxious to read S. Andrew Swann's Broken Crescent.  This promised to be a most intriguing premise for a novel, and I am always interested in reading the exploits of any hacker - real or fictional.  I must admit, though, that the first few chapters of this novel had me worried because they quite failed to grab me.  Nate Black promised to be a fascinating character, but his journey from this world to some mysterious other place was arbitrary and vague, and his initial contact with the new locals - consisting mainly of wisecracks no one there could begin to understand - threatened to become tiresome very early on.  Once Nate's captivity began, though, and the new magical world began to come into focus, all of my concerns were tossed aside as I found myself deeply drawn into the story and presented with several fascinating concepts.<br /><br />College student Nate Black was once one of the world's most famous (and wanted) hackers, the infamous Azrael, but he abandoned the black hat for a white one and thought he had covered up all traces to his infamous former identity.  Someone, though, has learned his secret and sends him a number of anonymous, untraceable emails to that effect.  When the feds suddenly appear on campus, Nate runs - and somehow falls into a dark void that leaves him high and dry in an entirely different world where magic is real.  No one in this mediaeval-type setting understands Nate's language, and he soon finds himself a prisoner.  He is held by the College of Man, the overseers of magic who basically control society there.  Nate is locked up and subjected to intense questioning by men in wild masks and robes, but the rudimentary communication device that allows for speech between him and his captors does not help him understand where he is, how he got there, or why he is being punished so severely.<br /><br />This new world is made up of two different races.  Man reigns supreme, but numbers of ghadi, peculiar-looking creatures unable to communicate and treated like trained animals/slaves by man, are employed as laborers in the castle.  Eventually, Nate falls under the care of the ghadi and their few human overseers.  He begins to learn the language and grows increasingly disconcerted when he finds out the ghadi look upon him as their long-anticipated savior - and that the College of Man fears him for that very reason.  This world is even more complicated than he knows, for the land's youthful monarch soon becomes an unpredictable component of a furious three-way struggle for power.  Agents within the College of Man have been working to bring the College down, and Nate eventually gets the chance to learn magic at the secret Shadow College, where students are being prepared to step in after the College of Man is defeated.  Here, practical magic is taught, but this does not satisfy Nate.  He is not content to merely copy arcane symbols for age-old spells, and he surreptitiously dives into the meaning and logic of the ancient Gods' Language.  In time, he sees it all as the equivalent of a computer programming language, and he assiduously begins to hack the \\"program.\\"  For centuries, no one has sought to do what Nate is now doing, as it is seen as the height of dangerous folly.  Nate ends up becoming the lynchpin of immense social and political change in this new world, and he must struggle to develop his growing abilities as quickly as possible - there is revolution in the streets, violence in the air, and great uncertainty everywhere.  In so doing, he finally discovers just who brought him to this world and why.<br /><br />The novel is full of action and mystery, heating up to a fever pitch by the end.  The concept of magic as a programming language is fascinating in and of itself.  I don't think this is a perfect novel by any means, however.  Swann seems to take several convenient shortcuts in the course of developing his storyline, and Nate learns the natives' language as well as the runes-based Gods' language surprisingly quickly.  I think a few of the supporting characters also could have used a little more development, but the social aspects of the conflicts on this world are compelling, and Nate develops into the type of hero - a very human one - that should appeal to most readers.natives' language as well as the runes-based Gods' language surprisingly quickly.  I think a few of the supporting characters also could have used a little more development, but the social aspects of the conflicts on this world are compelling, and Nate develops into the type of hero - a very human one - that should appeal to most readers.	2005-02-05
361136:US	53016962	R1X7H360WKVGHO	0441011357	57166220	Monument	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the most impressive fantasy novels I've ever read	Ballas is a shifty, ill-mannered, incorrigible, self-interested, perpetually drunk brute of a man with basically no morals and a natural dislike of every other living person on earth.  If you think I'm describing the villain of this novel, you are quite mistaken.  Ballas is actually the \\"hero\\" - or, to be precise, anti-hero, of Ian Graham's absolutely captivating debut fantasy novel.  Fantasy as a genre suffers from repetition of themes and outlines more than any other genre (just think of all the Lord of the Rings clones out there), so it is quite refreshing indeed to come across a story that eschews all traditional approaches to the subject at hand.  Of course, courageous risk such as that displayed by Ian Graham carries with it possible consequences -namely, some readers may find the main character so roguish and unlikable that they will not consider reading the novel, put it down in disgust after a chapter or two, or grudgingly finish the book in order to tell everyone just how unenjoyable it was. On the other hand, this type of unusual approach, distilled through the talents of an undeniably gifted author, can make for a most memorable experience, one sure to deeply impress many fantasy readers.<br /><br />Ballas is a thief who roams from village to village in the land of Druine stealing anything he can get his hands on in order to support his drinking habit.  He is a big, ugly brute of a man who looks as if he has been on the wrong side of many physical confrontations - and he has.  This pattern continues, as Ballas is beaten to a pulp on a regular basis (but not without leaving a path of human destruction in his own wake).  A young priest takes Ballas in, but our \\"hero,\\" once he is recovered, betrays his protector and makes off with a most unusual of trinkets bearing a mysterious blue jewel surrounded by four red rubies.  This object, he soon discovers, seems to have magical qualities when exposed to moonlight, and on one occasion he witnesses a vision of a member of a dead alien race (the Lektivin) seemingly trying to speak to him.  His crime (which includes murder) makes Ballas a wanted man, and leaders of the Church send out Wardens to apprehend him.  His ordained fate is to have his head nailed up on the Penance Oak (sans body, of course) as a message to all sinners and unbelievers.  The occasion of his execution is a truly memorable one, marked as much by what he witnesses as by the fact that he somehow manages to escape.<br /><br />On the run, Ballas begins to develop a deep-seated desire to escape across the mountains to a legendary land beyond; certainly, he needs to leave Druine because the Church and its Wardens are quickly on his tail, desperate to eliminate this outlaw, but the land beyond the mountains - if it even exists - is an almost impossible goal.  Ballas has no qualms about killing and sacrificing others in his mad dash for escape and safety, yet he does take on temporary companions and finds a number of unexpected allies in his cause, including a priest who follows the Law rather than the orders of the present-day Church.  The character development of Ballas is masterful; whenever you think he has shown a soft spot for someone or backed down from his normal attitude of hatred and contempt for the human race, he does something despicable.  The secrets of his past and future are not revealed until the very end, making it hard, I would imagine, for some readers to sympathize with him at all on the course of his flight to safety.  Still, I felt drawn to this character, and certainly he was a compelling anti-hero who drew increasing amounts of my fascination and interest.  The Church and its minions are far from heroic or praiseworthy themselves, and this helps make Ballas a character who won a good measure of my allegiance if not sympathy.  I wanted him to succeed in his impossible but passionate mission, despite all of his many, many faults - other readers may wish him to be destroyed as soon as possible, but even they cannot but feel compelled to follow Ballas' plight.<br /><br />Graham does a masterful job keeping the suspense and mystery ratcheted up from beginning to end, making it all but impossible to figure out what exactly will happen if and when Ballas makes it across the mountains.  As the story progresses, the reader accumulates fascinating facts about the Church and its founding, the \\"extinct\\" Lektivin race of aliens, and Ballas' own past, but it's impossible to tie all of this disparate information together without the insights Graham offers in the final pages.  The ending itself feels exactly right, as well - with an anti-hero such as Ballas, you can't really expect a happy ending, of course, and Graham does not commit the cardinal sin of letting his readers down at the last minute by somehow allowing all of the characters to live happily ever after - the gritty realism of Monument extends all the way to the final period on the last page.  In all honesty, Monument is one of the most distinctive, memorable, and impressive debut fantasy novels I have ever read.possible, but even they cannot but feel compelled to follow Ballas' plight.   <br /> <br />Graham does a masterful job keeping the suspense and mystery ratcheted up from beginning to end, making it all but impossible to figure out what exactly will happen if and when Ballas makes it across the mountains.  As the story progresses, the reader accumulates fascinating facts about the Church and its founding, the \\"extinct\\" Lektivin race of aliens, and Ballas' own past, but it's impossible to tie all of this disparate information together without the insights Graham offers in the final pages.  The ending itself feels exactly right, as well - with an anti-hero such as Ballas, you can't really expect a happy ending, of course, and Graham does not commit the cardinal sin of letting his readers down at the last minute by somehow allowing all of the characters to live happily ever after - the gritty realism of Monument extends all the way to the final period on the last page.  In all honesty, Monument is one of the most distinctive, memorable, and impressive debut fantasy novels I have ever read.	2005-02-05
361143:US	53016962	R3QV66HACPD32W	0061056928	450739532	Lords and Ladies	Books	5	8	9	N	N	No one is to do the Stick and Bucket Dance ever again	The three witches, especially Granny Weatherwax, have always been my favorite denizens of the Discworld, and they do nothing to disappoint the reader over the course of Lords and Ladies.  Add in a few of Unseen University's highest-ranking wizards, and you're guaranteed to have one wild time in the kingdom of Lancre.  This novel wasn't quite as funny as Pratchett's earlier witch novels, but it shows Granny Weatherwax in a whole new light and makes for a very entertaining read all the way around.<br /><br />Lords and Ladies opens with the three witches returning home to Lancre after their encounter with the Godmother in the novel Witches Abroad.  They arrive just in the nick of time.  A group of young girls have started doing some witching of their own; dancing around (with or without their drawers on) some of the ancient stones up in the hills isn't good for anybody, especially when the barriers between the worlds are rubbing close together and beings on the other side are just waiting to pounce on anyone capable of weakening the borders a wee bit more.  The Elf Queen has set her sights on crossing over into reality, but there just isn't room in this reality for Granny Weatherwax and the Elf Queen.  Granny knows what regular people forgot long ago - all that glamour and beauty that Elves project is just a mask.  Elves are really nasty little buggers who care about human beings only insofar as they can torture them for their own amusement.  Things are really nip and go here, as Granny Weatherwax isn't her old self these days - she can't even see the future anymore, and that doesn't bode well for anybody.<br /><br />Of course, the citizens of Lancre are all distracted by the upcoming nuptials of King Verence and Magrat Garlick.  Wyrd Sisters tells the story of Verence's witch-assisted rise from the king's Fool to the King of Lancre, as well as the budding romance between Verence and Magrat.  Magrat is of course the third member of the witches' trio, a young lass with eternally plain looks, great interest in the traditions and proper ceremonies of witchcraft, and a naivety and generosity of nature that frequently drives Granny up the wall.  She and Verence are as shy as the day is long, but they are to be married on Midsummer's Eve.  Granny and Nanny Ogg tend to treat Magrat as a child, and she finally gets so perturbed she abandons the coven and settles in to learning the ways of being a Queen - which mostly involves being incredibly bored.<br /><br />All kinds of folks arrive for the royal wedding, including Giamo Casanunda, the world's second greatest lover (\\"he tries harder,\\" a process which invariably involves the use of a stepladder), and a caravan of wizards from Unseen University.  Archchancellor Ridcully is extremely excited about it because he used to live in Lancre.  He goes on and on about this girl he once knew and wanted to marry, a girl who happens to be Granny Weatherwax.  It's hard to imagine Granny as a young woman, but Lords and Ladies shows us a side of the old crone we've never seen before.  Magrat really starts to come into her own, as well, after the Elves capture Verence.  Of course, everything comes down to a big fight with the Elves, but that's the least exciting part of the novel, as far as I'm concerned.  It's much more fun just watching Pratchett put all his players in place for the ending.<br /><br />Pratchett is absolutely on fire in a number of passages here, especially when young Ponder Stibbons tries to explain his theory of parallel universes and multiple forms of existence to Archchancellor Ridcully.  Granny and Nanny Ogg are always hilarious, the whole makeup of Lancre sets up many a joke, and Verence's dependence on book knowledge sets up one of the funniest bits in the whole Discworld series.  Lords and Ladies is enough to get a new reader hooked on Pratchett's unique genius, but you won't truly appreciate this novel unless you read Wyrd Sisters and Witches Abroad first.ith eternally plain looks, great interest in the traditions and proper ceremonies of witchcraft, and a naivety and generosity of nature that frequently drives Granny up the wall.  She and Verence are as shy as the day is long, but they are to be married on Midsummer's Eve.  Granny and Nanny Ogg tend to treat Magrat as a child, and she finally gets so perturbed she abandons the coven and settles in to learning the ways of being a Queen - which mostly involves being incredibly bored.   <br /> <br />All kinds of folks arrive for the royal wedding, including Giamo Casanunda, the world's second greatest lover (\\"he tries harder,\\" a process which invariably involves the use of a stepladder), and a caravan of wizards from Unseen University.  Archchancellor Ridcully is extremely excited about it because he used to live in Lancre.  He goes on and on about this girl he once knew and wanted to marry, a girl who happens to be Granny Weatherwax.  It's hard to imagine Granny as a young woman, but Lords and Ladies shows us a side of the old crone we've never seen before.  Magrat really starts to come into her own, as well, after the Elves capture Verence.  Of course, everything comes down to a big fight with the Elves, but that's the least exciting part of the novel, as far as I'm concerned.  It's much more fun just watching Pratchett put all his players in place for the ending. <br /> <br />Pratchett is absolutely on fire in a number of passages here, especially when young Ponder Stibbons tries to explain his theory of parallel universes and multiple forms of existence to Archchancellor Ridcully.  Granny and Nanny Ogg are always hilarious, the whole makeup of Lancre sets up many a joke, and Verence's dependence on book knowledge sets up one of the funniest bits in the whole Discworld series.  Lords and Ladies is enough to get a new reader hooked on Pratchett's unique genius, but you won't truly appreciate this novel unless you read Wyrd Sisters and Witches Abroad first.	2005-02-05
363979:US	53016962	R8I9LUAKQNW6	0060514337	970687212	Never Forget: An Oral History of September 11, 2001	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A personally meaningful, emotionally powerful read	I'm writing this review, but I really don't think it is possible to put this book into words.  Never Forget: An Oral History of September 11, 2001 is by far the most personal and emotionally compelling book I have read about the terrorist attacks of 9/11.  I honestly think every American should read this book - now more than ever.  Some people seem to be forgetting the inhumane horror and emotional trauma of that day, and this book takes you back, quite vividly, to what you saw and felt during and after the terrorist attacks.  The husband and wife team of Mitchell Fink and Lois Mathias interviewed a great number of people connected to the deadly events, from witnesses and survivors to emergency services personnel to Ground Zero volunteers and the families of Flight 93 passengers.  Eighty one personal accounts fill the pages of this book.<br /><br />I have only recently been going back and reading about 9/11 - suddenly, I finally felt ready to revisit what happened that day.  I am learning that the personal tragedy and horror was much more extensive than I realized.  The personal stories in this book introduce a number of observations and facts that were too gruesome to make it in to any news broadcasts.  I knew that a number of people jumped to their deaths, but I did not realize the number of jumpers was as high as it actually was.  I had also never thought about the danger those jumpers posed to rescue workers trying to get into the Twin Towers that morning.  One fireman, for example, was killed by a falling body.  The newscasts didn't talk about what happened when those bodies hit the ground, but the witnesses in this book do, and it's pretty gruesome stuff.  Then you have descriptions of the carnage seen by rescue and recovery teams, and it's just unimaginably awful.  The things these witnesses describe will break your heart, but their stories are also full of heart-warming stories of heroism and selflessness.  Everyone knows the story of Josephine Harris and the miraculous survival of the Ladder 6 team she was with, but this book is bursting with personal acts of heroism by ordinary men and women who epitomize the unsung hero.  Virtually everyone who survived the attacks credits someone else with saving his/her life.  One account that sticks out in my mind is the group of men who transported their handicapped coworker down dozens of flights of stairs to safety; they could have abandoned him and worried only about saving themselves, but they didn't.  The man whose life they saved makes a profound point: if they had been a little slower or unlucky and died that day, no one would ever have known about those selfless acts of heroism.  It makes you realize that some of the greatest acts of courage and sacrifice that took place that day will be known only in heaven.<br /><br />Many of the individuals whose stories are recorded here talk about the emotional effects of the experience.  Many ask why they lived when those around them died, and they talk about the emotional trauma (and, for some, sense of guilt) that will be a part of their daily lives from now on.  In the same vein, a few give voice to some profound perspectives.  It is awful that a fireman was killed by a jumper, but one individual points out that it probably saved the lives of the firemen who carried their fallen comrade to safety because it kept those men from entering the building just before it collapsed.<br /><br />Many of these accounts come from policemen, firemen, Port Authority personnel, emergency service workers, and those who worked tirelessly to recover bodies in the days and weeks following the tragedy.  I was also happy to read about some of the 300 search dogs who contributed so much to the effort, as well.  A majority of the book relates to the attack on the World Trade Center, but there are also a number of accounts from those on site at the Pentagon as well as loved ones of the brave passengers of Flight 93.  I was actually most interested in the stories of regular people who lived through the events, though; those are the stories I can most easily identify with, especially when I ask myself how I would have reacted in their situation.  So many of those people showed great bravery and humanity, and it's really uplifting to read about those \\"little\\" but powerful stories that you never heard about on the news.  It renews your faith in humanity and really drives home the point that the terrorists who kill innocent men, women, and children without a single twinge of guilt will never achieve their goals.sted in the stories of regular people who lived through the events, though; those are the stories I can most easily identify with, especially when I ask myself how I would have reacted in their situation.  So many of those people showed great bravery and humanity, and it's really uplifting to read about those \\"little\\" but powerful stories that you never heard about on the news.  It renews your faith in humanity and really drives home the point that the terrorists who kill innocent men, women, and children without a single twinge of guilt will never achieve their goals.	2005-02-02
372149:US	53016962	R39KDPG620QXQ	0595318827	612917860	The Gift of Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A deeply personal account of great loss and undying love	One has to approach a book such as this quite differently than a novel or work of nonfiction.  The Gift of Life is an extremely personal story about a mother's love and the awful pain that came from watching a daughter die an agonizing death.  Jean Lynch isn't writing for the reasons most people write, nor is she out to make any money from this book's publication.  The Gift of Life is to some degree a part of her struggle to come to terms with the death of her daughter - but it is more than this.  Lynch hopes to educate people about Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency, the rare genetic lung disease that eventually overcame her daughter Linda's valiant struggles against it.  Lynch also describes her experiences of the agonizing wait for a possible lung transplant, battling the complications that can ensue from a successful transplant, and adjusting to Hospice care.  Perhaps more than anything else, the book describes the deepest kind of love and the reaction of family members to the critical illness and eventual death of a loved one.<br /><br />Jean Lynch is sometimes critical of some of the medical professionals who treated her daughter.  Obviously, this book served in some measure to purge some of the helpless anger she still feels.  Some would say she is overcritical and maybe even lashing out at others from the depths of her own pain and feeling of helplessness.  I won't criticize her for this.  Whether she is right or wrong in some of her criticisms (some of them seem valid to me, but I only know the one side of the story), what else should she write in these pages other than the truth of her feelings?  She would fail in her goal of trying to help other families in the future deal with the critical illness of a loved if she was not completely honest about her own ordeal.  She describes a number of things she did not know about transplant recovery and Hospice - and if a registered nurse was unfamiliar with these things, the odds are the reader is, as well.  Writing The Gift of Life must have been incredibly painful for the author, but I think she has done readers a great service.  It is important to note that she goes out of her way in the preface to praise those in the care-giving profession and to apologize to anyone, including transplant patients, who might be offended or discouraged by what she writes here in her memoir.  Transplantation is a very risky medical procedure, and the complications that may result can be agonizing.  You don't just get your new organ and go merrily on your way, and Lynch clearly demonstrates this.<br /><br />The true audience of this book is probably Jean Lynch's family, but I found the book to be a rewarding read.  It's so personal that you begin to see yourself there around Linda's bed, admiring her courage and praying for her life to be spared - and you hurt when she loses the battle.  The Gift of Life has certainly educated one person about a disease few have ever heard of, and the facts of the illness and the likelihood of misdiagnosis early in life could conceivably help someone out there find treatment earlier on in life.  Most of all, though, the book does reinforce the importance of appreciating every day of your life and making sure that those around you know how important you are to them.The Gift of Life must have been incredibly painful for the author, but I think she has done readers a great service.  It is important to note that she goes out of her way in the preface to praise those in the care-giving profession and to apologize to anyone, including transplant patients, who might be offended or discouraged by what she writes here in her memoir.  Transplantation is a very risky medical procedure, and the complications that may result can be agonizing.  You don't just get your new organ and go merrily on your way, and Lynch clearly demonstrates this.   <br /> <br />The true audience of this book is probably Jean Lynch's family, but I found the book to be a rewarding read.  It's so personal that you begin to see yourself there around Linda's bed, admiring her courage and praying for her life to be spared - and you hurt when she loses the battle.  The Gift of Life has certainly educated one person about a disease few have ever heard of, and the facts of the illness and the likelihood of misdiagnosis early in life could conceivably help someone out there find treatment earlier on in life.  Most of all, though, the book does reinforce the importance of appreciating every day of your life and making sure that those around you know how important you are to them.	2005-01-26
374852:US	53016962	RWBPUILIXPYCP	0451459547	742364677	Deathstalker Legacy	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Where are you when we need you, Owen Deathstalker?	It's been two hundred years since Owen Deathstalker overthrew an evil empire, saved humanity from the unspeakable horror of the Recreated, and disappeared.  The new Empire, headed by a constitutional monarch but overseen by a representative Parliament, has basked in the glow of a golden age.  The old aristocracy of the Families no longer exists (although some still plot and plan for a return to power), noble Paragons enforce the King's Justice on all planets, and no one gives a thought to Owen Deathstalker's final warning of the coming Terror that will make the Recreated look like paper tigers.  On Logres (formerly Golgotha), a new king is crowned, plans are made for his royal wedding to the Empire's most famous diva, and a Deathstalker assumes the role of the King's Champion.  Sure, there are still a lot of threats and problems all around (especially the vicious ELFs who orchestrate bloody examples of their continued presence), but life is pretty good all over the Empire.<br /><br />Then, almost overnight, the Golden Age dies, murdered at the hands of a celebrated hero who vows to destroy the Empire after being slighted (or so he believes) by the new king.  Frightening events of mass murder are arranged, and the people turn on those whom they used to honor and respect the most.  Then the Terror arrives, leaving a line of scorched planets behind it as it slowly makes its way toward Logres.  The frantic citizenry, as well as the king and Parliament, look to Owen Deathstalker, the legendary hero whom they faithfully expect to return to save the Empire he did so much to create.  They don't know what we the readers know - that Owen is dead (although this does not necessarily mean we won't see him again).  Robert and Constance, king and queen after the rebellion, made the decision to destroy all of the historical record of Deathstalker and his legendary comrades, believing the people needed the optimism inspired by legend rather than the truth of their heroes' human frailties.  The Deathstalker, Helen D'Ark, Jack Random, Ruby Journey, Tobias Moon - these are just legends on stained glass windows now; other heroes of Owen's era are altogether unknown.<br /><br />Maybe you're asking who this new Deathstalker is.  After all, Owen Deathstalker was the last Deathstalker, and even the legend of his love for Helen D'Ark indicates that there love did not come close to producing a child.  Lewis Deathstalker comes from a related branch from the Deathstalker family tree, his family having assumed the famous surname by royal request.  Lewis proves himself a Deathstalker in many ways, however - with his devotion to honor and duty, his preeminent fighting prowess, and that old Deathstalker luck - all bad.  Unlike Owen, however, Lewis does find and know true love - and that's a problem because the love affair he engages in is quite forbidden, the very kind of thing that can turn the King's Champion into another Deathstalker outlaw.<br /><br />I had a little trouble getting into this novel.  After all, Owen's legendary life covered five long novels, and the characters of Deathstalker Legacy are a far cry from the heroes and villains of Owen's life and times.  As for Lewis, I haven't truly embraced him yet; he's a good and honorable man for the most part, but he lets love get in the way of honor and duty, and that is something that could never be said of Owen Deathstalker.  There's plenty of blood here, as a lot of people seem to die horrible deaths even during the Golden Age, and some unusual and eventually interesting characters, but even Rose Constantine, the Wild Rose of the Arenas, pales in bloodthirsty comparison to the likes of Ruby Journey and Hazel D'Ark.<br /><br />I don't want to call this novel filler, but it really does seem to exist primarily to set up later events.  The Terror has arrived, but we only see its first act of destruction; the idea of Owen Deathstalker returning is broached, but the Quest to find him only begins toward the end of the story; Hazel D'Ark's fate is a complete mystery; and the new circle of Deathstalker-led heroes only begins to coalesce in the closing pages.  This story has its moments and seems to find its legs in the last one hundred pages, but Deathstalker Legacy clearly pales in comparison to the earlier Owen Deathstalker novels.  It still has a lot to offer fans of space opera epics, though - and, most importantly, it's a necessary prelude to Deathstalker Return.gins toward the end of the story; Hazel D'Ark's fate is a complete mystery; and the new circle of Deathstalker-led heroes only begins to coalesce in the closing pages.  This story has its moments and seems to find its legs in the last one hundred pages, but Deathstalker Legacy clearly pales in comparison to the earlier Owen Deathstalker novels.  It still has a lot to offer fans of space opera epics, though - and, most importantly, it's a necessary prelude to Deathstalker Return.	2005-01-25
377680:US	53016962	R2FIIWCSZCGZ4A	0451459709	857336762	Patriot's Stand: A Battletech Novel (Mechwarrior: Dark Age, No. 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A thrilling tale of citizens fighting to defend their home	The Republic of the Sphere has basically collapsed in the two years since the HPG interstellar communications grid went down.  Clans and Houses are making power grabs all over the galaxy, and most of the now-isolated planets are finding out that ignorance is not bliss.  Alkalurops is a seemingly insignificant little mining planet out in the middle of nowhere - galactically speaking; its people are simple miners and farmers.  They have always stood up and fought for themselves in the past, but their noble ancestors never had to face Mechwarriors in hellish BattleMechs.  When a raiding party lands on the planet and begins confiscating equipment and supplies, a lot of folks - mostly urban types - stand back and freely give what true patriots would never surrender.  Not so in the small town of Falkirk, where a spunky redhead with Scotch-Irish blood coursing through her veins leads a group of citizens willing to fight for what is theirs.  Using mining Mechs crudely fashioned with whatever kind of offensive weapons the local engineers can fashion, Grace O'Malley and her militia take on the raiders and, as much by luck as anything else, live to fight another day.  One thing is made clear by this limited engagement, though - the people willing to defend Alkalurops are going to need help if they are going to hold on to their land and their lives.<br /><br />After a robust assembly of the people's representatives, Grace heads off-planet to hire some skilled professional soldiers of the planet's own.  The Roughriders, under the command of Loren J. Hanson, are the first to turn her away with impossible payment demands; little does Grace know that the Roughriders have spent time on her planet already.  In the end, Grace comes home with a loose grouping of professional soldiers tasked with turning her homegrown militia into a fighting force.  Time is short, as the raiders soon return to Alkalurops with more than raiding on their mind.  Then, as if things aren't bad enough, the Roughriders' client, as much a mystery to Hanson as he is to Grace, drops in with a bevy of his own Red and Black henchmen.  Grace and her band of hastily trained but deeply committed patriots must come up with a novel way of fighting for their land and freedom, but it won't be easy.  They know who the real enemy is, but they also have to take into account the Roughrider troops still ostensibly holding true to their contractual obligations.<br /><br />A lot of these Mechwarrior Dark Age novels are basically the same: one planet faces an incursion by enemies of some sort, be they seekers of power, wealth, or both.  This ninth book in the new series really has a spirit of its own, however.  The citizens of Alkalurops are not trained fighters; they are just regular people who would rather die fighting for their land than see it stolen by ruthless brigands.  Their strategies and tactics definitely qualify as unconventional.  It makes for an especially interesting conclusion, as this is a battle that cannot be avoided.  If you like your battles by the book, or you lust to see battalions going head to head across a traditional battleground, you won't find much of that here, but it seems to me that the most realistic of battles are never fought by the book.<br /><br />The local politics of Alkalurops adds great depth to the story, as does the work of some intriguing intelligence agents.  Basically, the fight itself isn't half as interesting as the preparations that come before it.  I should also note that this story really plays out as a local affair; while a couple of intriguing questions arise, Patriot's Stand essentially takes place within a geopolitical vacuum rather far removed from the large-scale crumbling of the Republic itself.<br /><br />Good characters make for good novels, and Patriot's Stand features a couple of good ones.  I will admit that I felt a few of the characters could have been threshed out a little more, the villain is a real paper tiger, and the story behind the story of the villain was left a little nebulous, but it is hard not to like L. J. Hanson, and I must say it was a real joy to get to know Grace O'Malley.  The planet may be Alkalurops, but the freedom fighters here sound a whole lot like the kind of Terran settlers who once fought for and won independence from Great Britain - they are patriots of the highest order.r, and the story behind the story of the villain was left a little nebulous, but it is hard not to like L. J. Hanson, and I must say it was a real joy to get to know Grace O'Malley.   The planet may be Alkalurops, but the freedom fighters here sound a whole lot like the kind of Terran settlers who once fought for and won independence from Great Britain - they are patriots of the highest order.	2005-01-22
378303:US	53016962	R1OGUA0VAVS52U	1413421865	921368523	In Lieu of Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A thought-provoking allegorical challenge to Christianity	In Lieu of Heaven is a metaphorical, deeply provocative novel that I cannot help but address on two different levels, one literary and the other religious.  The whole novel is framed in the mists of spirituality, as we meet one character traveling through lonesome woods in a quest for some kind of truth - ostensibly, his is a quest to find God.  Out in the middle of nowhere, he comes across a beautiful garden and meets another man, one who will take his ambiguous quest in a completely new direction.  It is difficult to review this book because the identity of the man in the Garden is essential to the story, yet I cannot reveal his identity without giving too much of the story away.<br /><br />The man in the garden tells the traveler a tale that is impossible yet, somehow, strangely feasible, and the \\"truths\\" unleashed from the man's lips send the traveler into a spiritual whirlwind.  He is forced to question the very tenets of his beliefs, and it makes for a soul-jarring experience.  The old man's message is that God is the penultimate Bad Guy, a jealous, neglectful Father responsible for all the woes of mankind.  This revelation is couched in the sacred writings of the Bible itself, which makes it all the more telling on the traveler's heart and soul.  In terms of the book as literature, it is a great success; it turns the kind of moralistic writing Nathaniel Hawthorne (as one example) excelled at completely on its head, proving very effective indeed.  Emotions run high throughout the two men's extended conversation, and we see into their hearts and minds in really quite provocative ways.<br /><br />What makes In Lieu of Heaven such an extraordinary novel to me, though, is the fact that Kevin Archer is actually a former Christian missionary.  As such, his knowledge of the Bible is impressive and lends extra strength to his arguments.  From my perspective as a conservative Southern Baptist, there is a definite shock value associated with reading this novel.  I think this is just what the author intended, however, and that in itself is a further sign of the impressive literary character of the story.  Obviously, I do not agree with Archer's condemnation of God as the ultimate bad guy in human history, but my disagreement on this point should not (and hopefully does not) color my review of the novel.  If everyone already agreed with the author's own conclusions, he would never have written such a provocative novel in the first place.  My own familiarity with the Bible actually makes Archer's argument all the more impressive; I can see just how knowledgeable he is and can pick up on the almost relentless references he makes to Biblical passages.  Each such reference is actually footnoted as well, so interested readers can go to the Bible passages themselves, if so inclined, while reading the novel.<br /><br />One can read almost anything into the Bible, as human history has shown.  I admire the fact that Archer has documented all of his references; this tells me he is not forcing his own interpretation upon the reader, although he is obviously sincere in his condemnation of God.  Just as he rebelled from the strict Christian upbringing of his youth, I do not think Archer would expect any reader to merely take his word for everything he says.  \\"Question everything\\" is one of many messages I take from this novel.  I think the author wants readers to examine the relevant Biblical passages and themes alongside the interpretation he is offering here; only then should the reader come to a conclusion of his own.  However you look at it, the emotions Archer evokes from his two main characters definitely make for an emotionally strong challenge to orthodoxy.<br /><br />I would recommend this novel to Christians and non-Christians alike.  Living in such a chaotic world, it is healthy for the soul and healthy for one's peace of mind to search for eternal truths about man's purpose, both individually and collectively.  Clearly, though, the author and I are sitting on opposite sides of the playing field.  I would hope that non-believers would be exposed to the Bible through this novel and go to that ultimate source before making any spiritual decisions inspired by the reading experience.  As for Christians, I have always believed that we should challenge our beliefs if we are to grow stronger in our faith, and In Lieu of Heaven does make for a formidable challenge.hough, the author and I are sitting on opposite sides of the playing field.  I would hope that non-believers would be exposed to the Bible through this novel and go to that ultimate source before making any spiritual decisions inspired by the reading experience.  As for Christians, I have always believed that we should challenge our beliefs if we are to grow stronger in our faith, and In Lieu of Heaven does make for a formidable challenge.	2005-01-22
378932:US	53016962	R355YMXW9ZLFO1	0737722479	874472781	Terrorism: Opposing Viewpoints	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Falls a little short of being fair and balanced	The Opposing Viewpoints series of books are aimed primarily at young adults and seek to introduce information from varied sides of important issues to readers as they begin to develop their own worldview; the editors also hope to help readers learn how to think critically and remain open to conflicting ideas and arguments.  The new 2004 edition of Terrorism: Opposing Viewpoints contains twenty-five short articles and essays addressing central tenets of terrorism and the war against it.  I decided to read this book after noticing the inclusion of an article by Noam Chomsky; given the fact that Chomsky is exceedingly anti-America and anti-Israel, I felt compelled to know just what this book (and others like it) might be teaching our children.  I found a number of good things in these pages, but I also noticed several problems (including a small but significant bias toward the liberal viewpoint).<br /><br />I would have thought it needless to say that this book does not feature arguments for and against terrorism; unfortunately, Chomsky's typical screed is all but pro-terrorist and, much to my surprise, the book actually contains one essay that originates with Hamas itself.  I have no problem with essays seeking to explain or even defend Hamas, but I personally don't think propaganda taken directly from a terrorist organization belongs anywhere near this book - especially when there is no counter-balancing article or essay reflecting the views of the Israeli or American governments.<br /><br />Most of the issues are addressed in pairs and set the framework for honest debate, but a couple of articles stand alone in their argument, which I have to chalk up as a negative.  The book begins by posing a seemingly nonsensical question, namely whether terrorism is an actual threat.  Paul Bremer and John Ashcroft do a good job encapsulating the seriousness of the threat, while other contributors argue that the threat has been exaggerated.  (Chomsky, of course, contends that the U.S. and Israel are the only two terrorist groups or nations in the entire world.)  The debate then turns to the origins of terrorism: whether Islam itself, economic conditions, and/or the Israel-Palestine situation encourage terrorism.  The next item on the agenda is America's proper response to terrorism, which gives us pro and con articles on the Patriot Act (which is never given an adequate description), racial profiling, and immigration restrictions.  Finally, the proper response of the international community to terrorism is addressed, with contributors arguing the merits of UN leadership, military action, and the brokering of a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.<br /><br />For the most part, Terrorism: Opposing Viewpoints can serve as a decent starting point for youngsters coming to terms with the threat of terrorism or those who wish to get a better feel for the debate - but only in conjunction with other sources of information.  Each article is rather short (3 to 8 pages or so), so there is not a great deal of detail included.  I see a major weakness here, as what you get is debate in the absence of the basic facts you need to know about the issues.  I do believe there is a discernible amount of liberal bias overall in the selections chosen by the editor, as well (particularly in terms of the views expressed about Israel).  As a result, I cannot really recommend this book in good conscience, especially to young people, unless it is complemented by other sources of information and debate.el are the only two terrorist groups or nations in the entire world.)  The debate then turns to the origins of terrorism: whether Islam itself, economic conditions, and/or the Israel-Palestine situation encourage terrorism.  The next item on the agenda is America's proper response to terrorism, which gives us pro and con articles on the Patriot Act (which is never given an adequate description), racial profiling, and immigration restrictions.  Finally, the proper response of the international community to terrorism is addressed, with contributors arguing the merits of UN leadership, military action, and the brokering of a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.    For the most part, Terrorism: Opposing Viewpoints can serve as a decent starting point for youngsters coming to terms with the threat of terrorism or those who wish to get a better feel for the debate - but only in conjunction with other sources of information.  Each article is rather short (3 to 8 pages or so), so there is not a great deal of detail included.  I see a major weakness here, as what you get is debate in the absence of the basic facts you need to know about the issues.  I do believe there is a discernible amount of liberal bias overall in the selections chosen by the editor, as well (particularly in terms of the views expressed about Israel).  As a result, I cannot really recommend this book in good conscience, especially to young people, unless it is complemented by other sources of information and debate.	2005-01-21
382722:US	53016962	RU60KWAELDISE	0451457560	957637820	Deathstalker Destiny	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Wildly entertaining and full of shocking surprises	A part of me didn't want to read this book.  Deathstalker Destiny is the fifth and final installment in the life and times of Owen Deathstalker.  I've been through a lot with the main characters of this Deathstalker series.  Heck, we overthrew a seemingly impervious evil Empire, liberated worlds, saved great big chunks of humanity time and time again, and overcame superhuman enemies the likes of which I had never dreamed of.  Now, it's all coming to an end.  It wouldn't be so bad if there weren't this really depressing prophecy hanging over Owen Deathstalker's head since early in the first novel - Owen Deathstalker, the greatest kind of hero, the only honorable aristocrat from a court of power-hungry villains, the last great hope of humanity itself predicted to die alone far from his friends without ever coming to know the love that helped drive him.<br /><br />Things certainly aren't going too well as the book opens.  The Empire is still mightily struggling internally to develop an effective form of government after the end of the rebellion; seemingly all of humanity's enemies are attacking almost everywhere in force- the rogue AI of Shub, the self-augmented Hadenmen, and some kind of souped-up giant insects; a far greater enemy called the Recreated is now on its way; and the worst plague in history is decimating one planet after another.  Owen Deathstalker doesn't have time to think of these things, though.  Hazel D'Ark, the former clonelegger and pirate who became Owen's best friend as well as the woman he loved, has been taken by the Blood Runners (who will torture her in order to learn the secrets of the powers she acquired in the alien Madness Maze on the Wolfing World), and Owen sits helplessly on the leper planet Lachrymae Christi - without a ship and without the Maze-given powers he had come to depend on.<br /><br />Of course, Owen's attention eventually shifts back to the Empire's losing struggle against unstoppable alien forces.  Owen has always understood duty, and he really has little choice in the matter.  He does truly become humanity's last and only hope for survival.  Everything comes full circle by the end, but at least Owen finally does get to hear the story behind this awful destiny he has never been able to elude.  A lot of big issues are resolved over the course of this book, including some surprisingly important ones involving some of the most fascinating and unique secondary characters I've ever encountered in science fiction.<br /><br />I have to say that Simon R. Green floored me several times over the course of this novel.  After well over 2000 pages with this series' heroes, I thought I knew these characters pretty well.  I was nothing less than shocked by a few of the events in Deathstalker Destiny.  I can accept everything that happened, but I surely didn't see some of it coming.  Green truly closes this series out with one bang after another, and that goes a long way toward making this the most exhilarating novel in an already exhilarating series.  There is, however, one weakness that takes a little something away from the reader's enjoyment - some crucial plot points are resolved much too easily.  Up until now, nothing has come easy for Owen Deathstalker and his friends, and the new challenges now facing our heroes are even more daunting and formidable than ever before.  As a reader, you can't see how the characters can possibly get themselves out of all the troubles now facing them - and then, in the matter of a page or two, all is said and done and you're heading off toward the next impossible challenge on the list.  When all is said and done, though, this novel (and this whole series) is just way too much fun to miss.  Green sometimes goes way out on a limb in terms of the rules of his universe, but the Deathstalker series makes for amazingly entertaining reading.  And I guarantee you won't forget the unique cast of characters who call this universe home.nderstood duty, and he really has little choice in the matter.  He does truly become humanity's last and only hope for survival.  Everything comes full circle by the end, but at least Owen finally does get to hear the story behind this awful destiny he has never been able to elude.  A lot of big issues are resolved over the course of this book, including some surprisingly important ones involving some of the most fascinating and unique secondary characters I've ever encountered in science fiction.   <br /> <br />I have to say that Simon R. Green floored me several times over the course of this novel.  After well over 2000 pages with this series' heroes, I thought I knew these characters pretty well.  I was nothing less than shocked by a few of the events in Deathstalker Destiny.  I can accept everything that happened, but I surely didn't see some of it coming.  Green truly closes this series out with one bang after another, and that goes a long way toward making this the most exhilarating novel in an already exhilarating series.  There is, however, one weakness that takes a little something away from the reader's enjoyment - some crucial plot points are resolved much too easily.  Up until now, nothing has come easy for Owen Deathstalker and his friends, and the new challenges now facing our heroes are even more daunting and formidable than ever before.  As a reader, you can't see how the characters can possibly get themselves out of all the troubles now facing them - and then, in the matter of a page or two, all is said and done and you're heading off toward the next impossible challenge on the list.  When all is said and done, though, this novel (and this whole series) is just way too much fun to miss.  Green sometimes goes way out on a limb in terms of the rules of his universe, but the Deathstalker series makes for amazingly entertaining reading.  And I guarantee you won't forget the unique cast of characters who call this universe home.	2005-01-18
386456:US	53016962	R3FK89OHRUIUUC	0451456483	856873155	Deathstalker Honor	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The war may be won but this series just keeps getting better	You might think that, after some 2100 pages, Simon R. Green's Deathstalker series would have begun losing steam.  As Deathstalker Honor opens, the rebellion against the Empire is the stuff of history and the war to overthrow Empress Lionstone XIV has been won.  Our heroes have done the impossible: slaughtered an amazing array of enemies all over the galaxy, seen the brutal murder of what must be billions of people on planets stretching from the homeworld of Golgotha to the planets on the outer rim, been changed into something more than human by a mysterious alien Maze, and become legendary heroes whose exploits are already shown in holovideos to a fascinated public.  Remarkably, however, this series seems to just keep getting better.  It turns out that winning the war was the easy part; winning the peace is something else entirely.  It's not just a matter of organizing a new government among a group of contentious power players interested only in acquiring power and money for themselves; there's also a little matter concerning several alien races moving in to attack the Empire while it is all but prostrate and vulnerable.<br /><br />The gang's still here, though: Owen Deathstalker, the reluctant warrior who oversaw the defeat of imperial power; Hazel D'Ark, the former clonelegger and extremely successful lady at Owen's side, always ready to spill the blood of the guilty; Jack Random, the legendary rebel leader of old who saw his forgotten dreams of revolutionary success come true after teaming up with the Deathstalker; and Ruby Journey, bounty hunter extraordinaire and Random's right-hand woman of mass death and justice.  Even Tobias Moon, the Hadenman who sacrificed everything to free his entombed brethren from their tombs on the Wolfling World, returns for this thrilling ride.  These are the heroes who go where they are needed to do the things no one else could possibly do.  On Virimonde, the planet which once called Deathstalker lord but has since been all but destroyed by Imperial forces, the notorious Valentine Wolfe, the most-wanted man in the new empire, is up to no good.  On Brahmin II, the Hadenmen have imprisoned the human population and begun turning them into augmented men like themselves.  On the inhospitable mining planet Loki, old rebels have rebelled anew against a corrupt new government and have made a desperate and wholly unforgivable move to elicit the aid of the rogue AI of Shub, mankind's most dangerous known enemy.  And on Lachrymae Christi, a leper planet no one likes to talk about, the Hadenmen have attacked in large numbers for no discernible reason.  At home on Golgotha, little has really changed, as the aristocratic families, rebel interests, and generally greedy, power-hungry men jockey for position in a generally ineffective, temporary Parliament.  I can tell you that a few scores are settled right here and now.<br /><br />There is a ton of great action in this novel, and there is no shortage of shocking surprises either - some wonderful characters don't survive the events detailed herein.  Great and troubling mysteries and questions shout out for answers but are eventually subsumed - for now - by the individual missions involving our heroes.  Even with their Maze-given special powers, the likes of Owen Deathstalker continually find themselves facing incredibly horrible odds of survival as they work to clean up some of the mess of an empire in tatters.  Shub, the Hadenmen, and supercharged alien insects - any one of these enemies poses a daunting threat to the weakened Empire, and now not just one but all three of them are on their way.  An even more frightening and potentially superior enemy exists out beyond the rim, in the Darkvoid where it was thought no form of life could possibly survive.<br /><br />Deathstalker Honor kept my eyes glued to the pages, more anxious than ever to follow the exploits of Deathstalker and his select group of revolutionary allies.  Each character is given additionalroom to grow here, and we begin to see some of what is behind the tough exterior masks they wear.  Even as they continue to fear that their Maze-given powers are robbing them of more and more of their humanity, we the reader begin to penetrate their emotional defenses in powerful new ways.  We also get a good look at the AI of Shub for the first time and learn just enough to heighten our interest and anxiety over the unknown enemies lying within the eternal darkness of the Darkvoid.<br /><br />A heavy dose of fun, space-opera fighting still provides the humming engine of the storyline, but a new emphasis on the human element makes this the most captivating read of the first four Deathstalker novels.  There is also a new and effective twist at the end; unlike its predecessors, this novel ends on a major cliff-hanger that is sure to drive Deathstalker fans in droves to Deathstalker Destiny, the fifth and final book in the life and times of Owen Deathstalker.itional room to grow here, and we begin to see some of what is behind the tough exterior masks they wear.  Even as they continue to fear that their Maze-given powers are robbing them of more and more of their humanity, we the reader begin to penetrate their emotional defenses in powerful new ways.  We also get a good look at the AI of Shub for the first time and learn just enough to heighten our interest and anxiety over the unknown enemies lying within the eternal darkness of the Darkvoid.   <br /> <br />A heavy dose of fun, space-opera fighting still provides the humming engine of the storyline, but a new emphasis on the human element makes this the most captivating read of the first four Deathstalker novels.  There is also a new and effective twist at the end; unlike its predecessors, this novel ends on a major cliff-hanger that is sure to drive Deathstalker fans in droves to Deathstalker Destiny, the fifth and final book in the life and times of Owen Deathstalker.	2005-01-15
391197:US	53016962	R3SOAZDELELW29	1583330968	568469021	Guess What Came to Dinner?: Parasites and Your Health	Books	4	72	73	N	N	What you don't know could make you sick - or worse	Ann Louise Gittleman is doing all she can to raise awareness of the danger of parasites in our lives; it is, she argues, a silent epidemic.  We've all heard of outbreaks of E. coli and the like, but such disturbing stories quickly fade away from the public consciousness.  Most people don't want to think about all the really nasty things that might be oozing their way throughout their bodies.  Gittleman clearly makes the case, however, that parasites are a growing danger, and the fact that many medical professionals aren't especially knowledgeable about the subject only exacerbates the problem.  Few medical students take a single course on parasitology, she says, because such courses are usually found under tropical diseases - and we in the United States still tend to think that parasites only affect the lives of those in impoverished and/or tropical nations.  Gittleman's objective in writing this book (now available in this revised version) is to educate everyone, layman and medical professional alike, on the extent of the parasite threat.  By doing so, she is able to offer advice and guidance on protecting yourself from the myriad of invisible threats parasites pose.<br /><br />First, Gittleman lays out a strong case for the greatly increased prevalence of parasites in today's America, pointing to a number of factors such as the great increase in international travel, the contamination of water supplies, the increased use of antibiotics, the ever-growing use of day-care centers (which one expert dubbed the open sewers of the 20th century), and the dramatic number of household pets interacting with men, women, and especially children.  She then describes some of the symptoms of the different kinds of parasitic conditions.  In many cases, she says, these symptoms closely mirror the symptoms of other diseases and usually go undiscovered - thus, you have patients continuing to suffer with afflictions while being treated for conditions they may not even have.  Gittleman's guide to parasites provides summary details (albeit somewhat technical ones) about all of the varying types of parasites - fluke worms, tapeworms, assorted amoebae, and a number of dastardly little critters I had never heard of.  She provides information designed to help you determine whether you might have a parasite yourself (relying significantly on lifestyle history), discusses the most modern testing methods out there, and discusses treatment options.  If you exhibit symptoms that do not go away and have your physician somewhat baffled, she encourages you to consider the possibility of a parasite and discuss it with your doctor.  I was amazed to learn that parasites can basically settle in all over your body, not just in your gastrointestinal tract.<br /><br />The most important part of the book, though, has to do with prevention and protection.  With parasites so prevalent in our daily lives, it is important to build up our resistance to them.  Gittleman goes into detail about the problems inherent in water and food preparation (especially undercooking), the risks posed by even the most beloved of pets (the next time your four-legged best friend gives you some sugar, you could possibly end up swallowing egg-carrying fleas), and the health risks surrounding young children.  As you might suspect, activities such as eating dirt and moving your hands back and forth between your backside and your mouth are not conducive to good, pesticide-free health (it's amazing that so many of us actually survive long enough to grow up given the general nastiness that defines babyhood and early childhood).<br /><br />The book does get slightly technical from time to time, and Gittleman does engage in the art of redundancy occasionally, but this is certainly a valuable and effective book.  It makes you think about a danger you have probably never contemplated before, explodes the myth that parasites only cause problems in Third World countries, and helps you take steps to better protect you and your loved ones from the pain and suffering parasites are more than capable on inflicting upon you.r loved ones from the pain and suffering parasites are more than capable on inflicting upon you.	2005-01-12
391732:US	53016962	R1BTVR07XVW2XT	0595329179	193464535	Waiting for the World to End	Books	5	33	34	N	N	An exquisite novel that touches your heart, mind, and soul	Normally, I review a book as soon as I finish reading it.  That is not the case with Nicole Hunter's Waiting for the World to End.  This novel is so profound, so exquisitely crafted, and so thought-provoking that further mental distillation was required before I could attempt to sit down and attempt to describe it.  The words appear on the printed page, but this story is written on nothing less than the human heart itself.  It is a book about right and wrong, making and coming to terms with difficult choices, and faith - but the author is quick to point out that this not a religious story; at its essence, this is a human story.  It is in fact an exceedingly human story.  Guys, don't turn away from this book because you think it might be \\"sappy\\" or something; ladies, don't pass this one over just because the main character is a men's basketball coach.  This is a book crying out to be read by anyone who has ever searched for meaning in life, tried unsuccessfully to forgive oneself for past mistakes, or experienced (or merely yearned to find) love of the noblest - and, by its nature, sometimes most difficult - form.<br /><br />Thomas Olsen would seem to be living one version of the good life.  He is the head of the English department and head coach of the men's basketball team at Indian River High School in Indiana, and he is a local celebrity among the basketball-crazy citizens of the local area.  He already has one state championship, and hopes (not to mention expectations) are high for him to claim a second title.  In his early 40s, he could have his choice of any number of fawning females.  The Thomas Olsen that everyone sees is not the real Thomas Olsen, however.  Olsen is in fact a painfully lonely character molded incompletely in childhood by rejection and weighed down by the grievous weight of a painful decision he made two decades earlier.  His is an empty body, long separated from what he considers his soul.  Hunter uses pieces of poetry quite brilliantly in order to define the essence of Olsen in the most poignant of terms.<br /><br />Some of the missing pieces that Olsen has all but given up searching for now begin to turn up, however.  He develops a fatherly bond with Ben Wendling, his team's star player, looking upon Ben as the son of his very soul.  Then he meets Ben's mother Mary, and in an instant he glimpses everything he has been searching for his whole life.  There is, of course, a problem - Mary is a married woman.  This doesn't stop Owen from insinuating himself into Mary's life - quite obviously, at times.  The two become especially close when Ben suffers a horrifying accident on the court.  Mary is a very religious person, and Owen opens up to her in ways he has never done before, revealing a large measure of his heart and soul.<br /><br />The novel covers some six years of Owen's life.  It is a story of constant pining, searching for life's meaning, doing the right thing no matter how unbearably hard it is to do, testing the waters of faith and prayer; most of all, though, this is a story of love in its purest, more soul-quivering form.  I can't begin to do the novel justice; it's like trying to describe a deeply personal experience.  That is exactly what Waiting for the World to End is - not a novel so much as a moving, heart-touching personal experience full of joy and sorrow, pain and relief, emptiness and fulfillment, and the most poignant form of human love.  It's not a story you can ever forget because it becomes a very real part of you.  Reading for entertainment is a fantastic thing, but the true wonder of reading is only reflected in the rarest of novels, one that makes you plumb the depths of your own heart and soul - and Waiting for the World to End is one of those rare examples of literature at its most powerful and enlightening.in order to define the essence of Olsen in the most poignant of terms.   <br /> <br />Some of the missing pieces that Olsen has all but given up searching for now begin to turn up, however.  He develops a fatherly bond with Ben Wendling, his team's star player, looking upon Ben as the son of his very soul.  Then he meets Ben's mother Mary, and in an instant he glimpses everything he has been searching for his whole life.  There is, of course, a problem - Mary is a married woman.  This doesn't stop Owen from insinuating himself into Mary's life - quite obviously, at times.  The two become especially close when Ben suffers a horrifying accident on the court.  Mary is a very religious person, and Owen opens up to her in ways he has never done before, revealing a large measure of his heart and soul.   <br /> <br />The novel covers some six years of Owen's life.  It is a story of constant pining, searching for life's meaning, doing the right thing no matter how unbearably hard it is to do, testing the waters of faith and prayer; most of all, though, this is a story of love in its purest, more soul-quivering form.  I can't begin to do the novel justice; it's like trying to describe a deeply personal experience.  That is exactly what Waiting for the World to End is - not a novel so much as a moving, heart-touching personal experience full of joy and sorrow, pain and relief, emptiness and fulfillment, and the most poignant form of human love.  It's not a story you can ever forget because it becomes a very real part of you.  Reading for entertainment is a fantastic thing, but the true wonder of reading is only reflected in the rarest of novels, one that makes you plumb the depths of your own heart and soul - and Waiting for the World to End is one of those rare examples of literature at its most powerful and enlightening.	2005-01-11
396642:US	53016962	RVRD49DRP5FIC	0451456084	475679568	Deathstalker War (Owen Deathstalker, Vol. 3)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Action-packed and full of surprises	The seeds of rebellion have been sown, and now - in the third volume chronicling the life and times of Owen Deathstalker - the war finally begins.  Deathstalker War is the strongest book in the series thus far, mixing in incredible action and excitement, shocking secrets and betrayals, human drama of the deepest kind, and some completely unexpected subplots.  This is just good, old-fashioned space opera.  As in the previous two books, Green does let elements of redundancy slip in from time to time, and the big finish is stretched out so much as to be a tad farcical, but this is still a gripping, wonderfully entertaining read.<br /><br />Before the rebels actually go to war themselves, the war comes to them.  On the home world of Golgotha, Empress Lionstone XIV is ravenously eager to put a stop to all the rebel foolishness and make plenty of examples of those who would defy her.  Both sides know that four planets will basically determine the victor - Mistworld, refuge of bounty hunters and those who have fallen out of imperial favor , safe haven of espers and clones, and rebel stronghold; Shannon's World, once the ultimate pleasure world but now wrapped in mystery and known as Haceldama, the Field of Blood; Virimonde, an agricultural planet where the Deathstalker (now Owen's nephew) is lord; and of course Golgotha, seat of the imperial government.<br /><br />The war begins on Mistworld, where Owen Deathstalker, Hazel D'Ark, and a young version of legendary rebel Jack Random, have gone to win the support of the Mistport Council.  Aided by a fiendishly dangerous secret weapon called Legion, Empire forces manage to land in force on the planet without detection.  The result is war at its ugliest, as Mistworld fights against overwhelming odds for its very survival.  They forevermore have a war on this planet, going at it hand-to-hand in the streets, while blood flows in the gutters and men have to climb over dead bodies to advance from one enemy to the next.  Then the scene shifts to Shannon's World, where Finlay Campbell, Evangeline Shreck, Giles Deathstalker (the original Deathstalker, who has emerged from 943 years in stasis), and the esper Julian Skye seek to penetrate the mystery that has swallowed up all the imperial soldiers sent to penetrate its silent depths and - most importantly - \\"rescue\\" a brilliant imperial tactician who crashed there some time earlier.  After the bloody free-for-all of Mistworld's war, the adventure on Shannon's World could not have come as more of a surprise.  I won't even dare describe it here - except to say that Green is a remarkably brave author.  What initially seems unbelievably silly ends up being the most emotionally compelling section of the book.<br /><br />Owen's nephew David, accompanied by his friend Kid Death, has set up shop on Virimonde, the planet Owen escaped from when he was outlawed by the Empress.  The two young friends ignore their rebel commitments and basically just go about having all the fun they can possibly have on this peaceful, agriculturally rich planet.  Then comes news that Lionstone XIV intends to mechanize the entire planet and make an example of the peasants who have been - with the implicit approval of David - flirting with democratic government.  It is here on Virimonde that the true madness of the Empress is made clear to all - thanks in no small part to a seemingly omnipresent journalist and cameraman who manage to beam the awful pictures of the bloodbath back to the home world.<br /><br />All of the principle characters converge on Golgotha in the end, hacking and slashing their way to the Imperial Throne itself.  There's a lot of riveting military action, and Green throws in some rather shocking surprises to make things really interesting.  The ultimate showdown, unfortunately, is drawn out far too long and becomes something of a farce in terms of its execution, but it was still compelling enough to keep me up into the wee hours of the morning determined to see how everything came out.<br /><br />Deathstalker War sets the stage for a transition in the series.  Everything up to now has led up to the war, and it will be very interesting to see what happens next and how the rebel leaders (whom we readers have already spent over 1500 pages with) will change.  I was just a tad down on the Deathstalker series after reading Deathstalker Rebellion, but Deathstalker War has truly recaptured my imagination and fueled my interest anew.  This is easily the best of the first three volumes in the Deathstalker series.Deathstalker War sets the stage for a transition in the series.  Everything up to now has led up to the war, and it will be very interesting to see what happens next and how the rebel leaders (whom we readers have already spent over 1500 pages with) will change.  I was just a tad down on the Deathstalker series after reading Deathstalker Rebellion, but Deathstalker War has truly recaptured my imagination and fueled my interest anew.  This is easily the best of the first three volumes in the Deathstalker series.	2005-01-07
403552:US	53016962	RKURWJWBHLRO8	0590314009	967392643	Oh Heavenly Dog	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The novelization of Benji's third successful feature film	This is Joe Camp's novelization of the 1980 film Oh! Heavenly Dog.  Camp, the man behind the Benji phenomenon, co-wrote the screenplay with Rod Browning, and this novelization closely follows the script of the film itself.  It's the story of a private investigator attempting to solve a murder under the most unusual of conditions.  Benjamin Browning is set up and murdered, at which point he finds himself in a strange place called the Intermediate Destination Evaluation Facility.  It's sort of like a toll booth on the way to eternity.  Browning is graded Marginal Material, which means he needs to complete a certain mission in order to secure a spot in the Ultimate Reward destination.  That mission is to go back and solve his own murder.  Unfortunately, Browning has to return to earth in the form of a cute and fluffy little dog.<br /><br />The four-legged Browning meets up with the same beautiful woman he had met shortly before his death, and it just so happens that she is working on a book about the crime he is trying to solve.  Jackie Howard is increasingly perplexed as she finds the dog every place she goes as she investigates the crime scene and interviews important witnesses.  Browning has to overcome all sorts of handicaps, such as the lack of hands, the inability to speak, and the tendency of large dogs to chase him up and down the streets of London, but he goes so far as to overstay his allotted time on earth in order to close the case and keep Jackie out of danger as he prods her slowly toward the truth.  The ending holds a bit of a surprise, as well.<br /><br />If you've seen the movie, you already know the story; this novelization is very faithful to the film's original screenplay (which makes sense given that Joe Camp wrote both of them) - there are few additional details to be found in these pages.  It's an excellent novelization and includes a set of color photographs from the film itself, but it's much more fun to watch Benji's amazing performance than it is to read about it.an it is to read about it.	2005-01-03
405787:US	53016962	R1QMZ4OCDOI5VG	0451455525	655093984	Deathstalker Rebellion: Being the Second Part of the Life and Times of Owen Deathstalker	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Let's get this slightly campy rebellion started	While this second entry in the life and times of Owen Deathstalker retains all of the action and fun of the first novel, an element of camp seems to have set in to make the series less fulfilling.  Greene, every so often, seems to set the story aside momentarily in an effort to be funny, and the introduction of characters such as Half a Man indicates to me that Greene has decided to embrace some of the campiness of space opera and just run with it.  Perhaps the most interesting thing about Deathstalker Rebellion is the fact that Owen Deathstalker, the main character by default, is the least interesting person in this entire drama.  Outlawed by Lionstone XIV, this historian and aristocrat turned reluctant hero has set the rebellion against the Empire in motion, but - at least at this early stage of the game - he has become all but irrelevant.  His close comrades - legendary rebel Jack Random, pirate and clonelegger Helen D'Ark, and bounty hunter Ruby Journey - are much more prominent and intriguing than he is.<br /><br />The first real blow Deathstalker delivers to the Empire is an assault on the Income Tax and Tithe Headquarters on Golgotha, seat of the imperial government.  He succeeds in throwing the Empire's finances into disarray, but the resulting blow to the planet's defenses allows an unknown alien ship to pop in and lay waste to the starport and other prominent facilities.  This poses a problem, as the underground of rebels (including a number of fascinating aristocrats alongside hackers, clones, and individuals with esp abilities) already plotting their own rebellion on Golgotha itself aren't exactly happy about staging a rebellion that promises to just open up the way for their own annihilation by aliens.  In the aftermath, however, all the rebel groups throughout the Empire come together for the first time in order to make plans to work together.  Lionstone XIV, meanwhile, has to lay plans for a threat from within as well as without.  Captain Silence and Investigator Frost (my favorite characters) somehow manage to avoid execution for their failures once again and end up out on the Rim shoring up planetary support.  While there, they encounter a lost ship from two centuries earlier which turns out to be full of Ghost Warriors; these are animated, computer-enhanced corpses controlled by the dastardly AI from the planet Shub, known enemies who now bear watching - along with the Hadenmen, or Enemies of Humanity, who have joined up with Owen's forces after the Deathstalker freed them from their Tomb on the lost planet Haden.<br /><br />The main action in this novel, though, focuses on the inhospitable planet Technos III, where the Wolfe Family is in charge of producing new stardrives for the imperial navy.  Family clans are very complicated in this imperial universe, with each Family conspiring for greater power while individual Family members constantly plot against one another.  Thus it is that several groups, not just the rebels, do not want to see the Wolfes produce a single new stardrive.  Random and Ruby travel to the harsh environment to lead the rebel forces fighting for their planet, but the biggest surprises are laid by folks ostensibly loyal to the empire - it all comes together to make the ultimate climax quite interesting, to say the least.<br /><br />Deathstalker Rebellion seems much longer than its 500+ pages.  There are some redundancies built in to the story, characters have a knack for somehow managing to engage in pages of private dialogue in the midst of frantic activity going on all around them, and there are some real \\"oh, come on\\" moments in the story.  You've got one character who returned 200 years ago from alien capture with only one side of his body - his other half is some sort of alien energy field.  You've got heroes capable of doing all kinds of miracles thanks to an earlier trip through a mysterious maze of unknown alien origins, and that sometimes provides an easy out for Greene when characters find themselves in real trouble (sort of an alien ex machina).  You have a civilization that has manufactured a weapon capable of wiping out a galaxy of worlds instantaneously, yet no one can invent a blaster that doesn't require two minutes to recharge between shots.  Perhaps the biggest problem is the fact that events and characters are spread quite thin across the novel - you can go 100 pages without encountering the protagonist, for example.  As the rebel efforts begin to coalesce in the future, though, I would expect this problem to diminish.<br /><br />Despite the negatives, Deathstalker Rebellion is a fun, action-packed, sometimes slightly wacky, read; it's pure space opera and seemingly proud of it.  The encounter with the Ghost Warriors is an especially intriguing, momentarily creepy, episode.  I wouldn't recommend starting this series with this or any other sequel, though; there is just far too much going on in too many different places.  If you enjoy space opera, you should enjoy the Deathstalker series; if you can take it or leave it when it comes to space opera, you may find yourself frustrated by the seemingly slow progression of events in these pages.when characters find themselves in real trouble (sort of an alien ex machina).  You have a civilization that has manufactured a weapon capable of wiping out a galaxy of worlds instantaneously, yet no one can invent a blaster that doesn't require two minutes to recharge between shots.  Perhaps the biggest problem is the fact that events and characters are spread quite thin across the novel - you can go 100 pages without encountering the protagonist, for example.  As the rebel efforts begin to coalesce in the future, though, I would expect this problem to diminish.   <br /> <br />Despite the negatives, Deathstalker Rebellion is a fun, action-packed, sometimes slightly wacky, read; it's pure space opera and seemingly proud of it.  The encounter with the Ghost Warriors is an especially intriguing, momentarily creepy, episode.  I wouldn't recommend starting this series with this or any other sequel, though; there is just far too much going on in too many different places.  If you enjoy space opera, you should enjoy the Deathstalker series; if you can take it or leave it when it comes to space opera, you may find yourself frustrated by the seemingly slow progression of events in these pages.	2005-01-01
409909:US	53016962	R3PO1UOU832JB1	0595205232	650293944	The Islander	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Breathes vivid new life into a riveting historical mystery	The Islander is a riveting piece of historical fiction based upon author John Allen's translation of the diary of Maximilienne Carpentier, a young woman who washed up on a Danish beach in 1877 and died soon thereafter from exposure.  None of her rescuers could understand her French tongue, catching only odd references to an island and a woman named Emilie, and none could read the diary which was strapped to the unfortunate young woman's body.  John Allen found the diary in a local museum on the coast of Denmark, and he has finally made Carpentier's story available to the public with his interpretation of her private writings.  It's an almost unbelievable story, having up to now been dismissed as the ravings of a dying madwoman, but Allen believes the story to be true and the depth of humanity seen in this extraordinary young woman of the nineteenth century is too deep and real to be dismissed.<br /><br />Maximilienne's story is one of bucolic grace and wonder destroyed by the cruelty of her fellow man.  She grew up alongside her father and mother on a remote, uncharted island in the Atlantic, delighting in the natural world around her and thinking nothing of the outside world.  The island's only visitor came in the form of Captain Claude Besson, a family friend who brought supplies and stacks of newspapers to her father every few months.  At sixteen, her mother dies and then, five years later, her father follows.  Before his death, he confesses a shocking secret to his daughter - that he brought his wife and daughter to this island after escaping from prison.  He has far darker and more important secrets to confess, as well, but dies before he can tell Maximilienne everything she needs to know.  When Captain Besson next returns to the island, she learns more of the story from him, including the startling news that her father's sister-in-law is a vindictive, greedy woman who will attempt to claim the island as her own as soon as her own husband dies.  Maximilienne has the original deed to the island, signed by none other than Charles VII of France, but she does not have proof that she is her father's daughter.  Besson promises to help secure her birth certificate from France, and the nave young lady develops a romantic relationship with her would-be hero.<br /><br />Then, Maximilienne's world comes crashing down around her when her aunt Camille arrives suddenly on the island.  What happens then is, if true, one of the vilest acts of violence and inhumanity the world has ever seen.  Maximilienne has little choice but to fight for her island when her aunt's party of thugs next returns to set up a permanent residence there.  She becomes a murderess, although I don't know of a jury that would ever have convicted her given the facts of her situation, but the awful truths she continues to learn during the continuing ordeal hurt her more than her own guilt for taking others' lives.  Only the most remarkable of individuals could overcome the depths of betrayal she endures and continue to fight the good fight to the very end.<br /><br />The story of Maximilienne's journey from her beloved island to the Danish coast where she was shipwrecked is just the final tragedy to befall this amazing heroine.  The circumstances of her death add great mystery to what is already a mystifying story.  Allen has attempted to corroborate what he can of the story, using the historical references given in her diary.  The life of Maximilienne Carpentier is almost too incredible to be believed, but Allen returns the breath of life into this mysterious heroine with his remarkably natural and fascinating retelling of her story.  Certainly, questions and mysteries remain, not the least of which is the actual location of the mysterious island, but the force of Maximilienne's character subsumes most doubts or questions the reader may have as to the veracity of the tale.  Whether it be true or not, this is an amazingly moving human drama that cannot help but fascinate the reader.<br /><br />While The Islander does relate all of the facts recorded in Maximilienne's diary, it is only the first of a series of three books covering this fascinating subject.  The sequels, Coming of Age and A Woman of Experience, revolve around the mysterious Emilie, whom, Allen learned, survived the shipwreck that took the life of Maximilienne.  I for one cannot wait to learn what additional information Allen will provide in relation to this tragic story of a truly remarkable young heroine.but fascinate the reader.   <br /> <br />While The Islander does relate all of the facts recorded in Maximilienne's diary, it is only the first of a series of three books covering this fascinating subject.  The sequels, Coming of Age and A Woman of Experience, revolve around the mysterious Emilie, whom, Allen learned, survived the shipwreck that took the life of Maximilienne.  I for one cannot wait to learn what additional information Allen will provide in relation to this tragic story of a truly remarkable young heroine.	2004-12-28
415208:US	53016962	R5GIMI380NRJY	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Let there be lettuce!  Let there be slices of melon!	In Small Gods, the thirteenth novel of the Discworld, Terry Pratchett gets philosophical, religious, and existential on us, delivering a remarkably insightful look at man and his relationship (or lack thereof) with the gods.  There are gods everywhere on the Discworld - you can't swing a simian librarian without hitting one - except, of course, only a few people can see them.  Each small god lies in wait, desperately seeking to make someone believe in him; on the Discworld, gods need people more than people need gods, for belief is the food of the gods.<br /><br />The story takes us far away from the environs of Ankh-Morpork to Omnia, a land on the Klatchian coast ruled by the priesthood of the Church of Om.  It's an arid, harsh world where the Quisition works tirelessly to beat the sin out of individuals deemed to be suspicious (and almost no one is safe, for the priests regard the very existence of suspicion as proof of guilt).  You would think that the Great God Om would bask in the glory and power of all that faith being demanded of the people, but ritual has replaced substance in Omnia; the people may worship Om, but they don't really believe in him anymore.  For the past three years, the Great God Om has been stuck in the body of a one-eyed tortoise and has only now been able to find one man with the true flame of faith burning inside him.  Unfortunately for Om, that one believer is Brutha, a novitiate in the Church whom, all would agree, is just a little bit slow on the uptake and is just about the last person Om would have chosen to become his new Prophet.  Brutha does have a perfect memory, but all that memory crammed into his mind leaves little room left over for actual thought.  In a way he fits right in, though, as the Church does all it can to discourage individual thought, because that kind of thing just leads to trouble.<br /><br />Naturally, Brutha has a hard time accepting a tortoise as the Great God Om, and Om doesn't have the power to do anything but curl ineffectual oaths and curses at things that bother him.  Om is actually a pretty surly little god, but spending three years as a tortoise, having to worry about falcons swooping down on you and then dropping you from a great height, tends to bring out the worst in gods.  Brutha is increasingly disturbed to learn that Om never really gave his followers any instruction whatsoever; all of the holy books he knows by heart suddenly come into question, and that's hard on a true believer.<br /><br />As the novel progresses, Brutha finds himself accompanying Deacon Vorbis, head of the Quisition, to the land of Ephebe where philosophers cover the landscape like locusts, argue violently among themselves, and generally live in barrels.  One such philosopher is Didactylos, whose philosophy can basically be boiled down to the words \\"It's a funny old world.\\"  He now becomes the unifying part of an underground movement that insists, despite the tenets of the Church, that \\"the Turtle moves,\\" that turtle being, of course, the Great A'Tuin.  As so often happens, religious dispute breeds war, and the future of Omnia - not to mention the future of the Great God Om - lies in the palms of Brutha.  There is only one thing you can be sure of in such a precarious situation: somewhere nearby, Cut-Me-On-Hand-Off Dhblah will be there selling all sorts of wossnames - onna stick.<br /><br />Pratchett's razor-sharp wit cuts especially deep into religion, society, and the body politic in this novel.  To some degree, organized religion is being satirized in these pages, but it's a healthy and honest sort of criticism; more than anything else, Small Gods is an ingeniously subtle philosophical examination of the meaning of life in an uncertain world.  Pratchett offers one explanation as to how and why gods die, and there is more than enough weighty material in these pages to give us pause in between fits of laughter.thing but curl ineffectual oaths and curses at things that bother him.  Om is actually a pretty surly little god, but spending three years as a tortoise, having to worry about falcons swooping down on you and then dropping you from a great height, tends to bring out the worst in gods.  Brutha is increasingly disturbed to learn that Om never really gave his followers any instruction whatsoever; all of the holy books he knows by heart suddenly come into question, and that's hard on a true believer.  <br /> <br />As the novel progresses, Brutha finds himself accompanying Deacon Vorbis, head of the Quisition, to the land of Ephebe where philosophers cover the landscape like locusts, argue violently among themselves, and generally live in barrels.  One such philosopher is Didactylos, whose philosophy can basically be boiled down to the words \\"It's a funny old world.\\"  He now becomes the unifying part of an underground movement that insists, despite the tenets of the Church, that \\"the Turtle moves,\\" that turtle being, of course, the Great A'Tuin.  As so often happens, religious dispute breeds war, and the future of Omnia - not to mention the future of the Great God Om - lies in the palms of Brutha.  There is only one thing you can be sure of in such a precarious situation: somewhere nearby, Cut-Me-On-Hand-Off Dhblah will be there selling all sorts of wossnames - onna stick. <br /> <br />Pratchett's razor-sharp wit cuts especially deep into religion, society, and the body politic in this novel.  To some degree, organized religion is being satirized in these pages, but it's a healthy and honest sort of criticism; more than anything else, Small Gods is an ingeniously subtle philosophical examination of the meaning of life in an uncertain world.  Pratchett offers one explanation as to how and why gods die, and there is more than enough weighty material in these pages to give us pause in between fits of laughter.	2004-12-23
415805:US	53016962	R2TZ43XZBUBICB	0451454359	734211580	Deathstalker (Deathstalker #1)	Books	5	33	36	N	Y	The thrilling beginning of a monumental space opera epic	If you like your science fiction short and sweet, Simon R. Green's Deathstalker series is not for you.  This is space opera in the grand tradition, filled with sweeping turns and possibilities extending across an Empire of worlds and centuries, featuring a cast of human aristocrats, clones, espers (mutants with varying ESP capabilities), monstrous aliens, augmented men, genetically-enhanced creatures, legends and heroes from the past, and outlaws.  The newest outlaw is none other than Owen Deathstalker, de facto leader of the Deathstalker clan ever since the imperial murder of his father.  All Owen wanted was to be left alone to pursue his history studies, but destiny has a way of finding its chosen victims wherever they may be.  Queen Lionstone XIV declares Owen an outlaw, and in an instant he is running for his life.  Thus are sown the seeds of a rebellion that will change the Empire forever.  Of course, that story only begins to be told in this first volume of the exploits of Owen Deathstalker.<br /><br />Deathstalker first escapes - barely - to Mistworld, a cold stink-hole of a planet that serves as the one and only refuge of outlaws all across the Empire.  In the company of fellow outlaw Hazel D'Ark, to whom he literally owes his life, Owen seeks out the Empire's most legendary rebel, Jack Random, to join his nascent little rebellion.  Throw in a sassy female bounty hunter and one of the Hadenmen (augmented men who once sought to wipe out the inferior human race), and you've got quite an eclectic bunch of revolutionaries.  Things only get weirder from here, as upcoming destinations for Owen include Shandrakor, the legendary planet where the founder of the Deathstalker clan reportedly lies in stasis, and - deep within the confines of the Dark Rim - the Wolfling World, home of the Tomb of the Hadenmen, the Madness Maze, and the Darkvoid Device, destroyer of worlds.<br /><br />Strangely enough, however, especially given all of the action Owen Deathstalker and his allies see - and, brother, they see all kinds of fierce, bloody action - at least half of this novel takes place back on the home world of the Empire.  Here we see just how big a mess the Empire is really in.  Besides the Queen's constantly dastardly plans, we see an aristocracy run amuck with intrigues, secret deals, betrayals, murderous vendettas, and all kinds of juicy stuff that truly reeks of decadence.  No one is really who they seem, especially the likes of Valentine Wolfe, the Empire's most famous drug addict, and Finlay Campbell, a comical little fop whose secret identity as the Empire's greatest fighter is unknown to everyone but the woman he loves, a woman who just so happens to be a clone - but that is only one of many other secrets that slowly reveal themselves as this epic novel proceeds.  Several personal roads lead us deep into the underground, where a secret alliance of clones, espers, and humans plan their own revolution against the Iron Throne.  I found this aspect of the novel even more fascinating than Owen Deathstalker's remarkable story, and the rebel assault on the esper prison known as Wormboy Hell proves even more exciting than the novel's closing engagement on the Wolfling World.<br /><br />Brimming with intrigue, harboring a number of significant and genuinely shocking surprises along the way, and filled with fascinating characters of all sorts, Deathstalker is quite an exhilarating read.  It's a rather long read, as well, and you should keep in mind that it is really just the beginning.  This is a story that will play out over literally thousands of pages, and Deathstalker represents only an initial plunge into the vast ocean of Simon R. Green's creative genius.  The book has a few shortcomings in terms of specific plot events, and it can be disconcerting to see how much of the novel does not involve the main character, but this is awe-inspiring science fiction played out on an epic scale.  Only a select few writers can realistically give life to such a large and complex world, but Green proves himself to be a master juggler of words and ideas - best of all, he seems to have a full bag of startling surprises and plot twists at his disposal that promises to make the Deathstalker series something really special and vastly entertaining.e life to such a large and complex world, but Green proves himself to be a master juggler of words and ideas - best of all, he seems to have a full bag of startling surprises and plot twists at his disposal that promises to make the Deathstalker series something really special and vastly entertaining.	2004-12-22
425998:US	53016962	R1K2ST01Z3T9DJ	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	King's first collection of masterful short stories	One thing that has always distinguished Stephen King among his peers is his commitment to the short story.  You don't find many novelists writing short stories these days, but King has always excelled in the area of short fiction, and I daresay the discipline involved in telling a story in a relatively small number of pages has helped make him such a successful writer of long fiction.  Night Shift, which was first published in 1976, is the first of King's short story collections, bringing together twenty stories originally published in such disparate magazines as Cavalier, Penthouse, and Cosmopolitan (yes, Cosmopolitan) in the early to mid 1970s.  These stories have given birth to a surprising number of film adaptations, but I would urge you not to judge these stories in advance by the quality of films such as Children of the Corn, The Mangler, Sometimes They Come Back, and The Lawnmower Man (especially The Lawnmower Man, as the film has nothing whatsoever to do with King's story).<br /><br />There is a lot of variety to be found in this collection, as King delivers much more than a sequence of horror stories.  The horror is there in droves, of course, but so are stories of a general bent that show just how effective a writer King is when he wanders away from the dark forces usually driving his imagination.  The Woman in the Room, for example, is a rather tender story of a son struggling with his mother's impending death, while I Know What You Need and The Man Who Loved Flowers display romantic sensibilities of a truly engaging nature.<br /><br />The book opens with Jerusalem's Lot, a thoroughly Lovecraftian exploration of the early history of this infamous little hamlet; told in the form of letters and steeped in Mythos lore, it is the type of tale that could have been written by a member of the original Lovecraft Circle.  One For the Road also centers on Jerusalem's Lot; it's unusual to set a vampire story against the backdrop of a severe New England blizzard, but this proves to be one of the most effective stories in this collection.  Rats, traditional horror favorites, play a part in a couple of stories, particularly Graveyard Shift with its rat-infested subterranean levels containing monstrosities that can no longer be considered mere rats.<br /><br />The Ledge is, to me, the most uncomfortably effective story in the collection, mainly because it ruthlessly exploits my own fear of heights.  Quitters, Inc., though, stands head and shoulders above the other nineteen stories; brilliant in its conception and development, it details a brutally surefire way to quit smoking.  Children of the Corn is also a masterful tale; the film adaptation elaborately expounds upon the idea, but the core of the story and the mysterious horror of He Who Walks Behind the Rows is given a glorious birth in these pages.  Sometimes They Come Back gave birth to two less than exhilarating films, but the original story is vintage Stephen King, with three dead youths returning to high school to finish the deadly job they started years ago.  Then there is The Boogeyman which builds upon the palpitating fear that has touched every child scared of the dark; I can picture King grinning wickedly as he was writing the twisted final lines of this tale.<br /><br />Battleground holds special meaning for me as this was the first Stephen King story I ever read - believe it or not, we actually read this in my advanced English class in seventh grade.  Some regard it as a weak contribution to Night Shift, but the story is a lot of fun despite its rather unbelievable nature.  The Lawnmower Man is more than weird enough to be memorable.  Some people also don't care for The Last Rung on the Ladder, but I think it is a wonderful little story; the human element takes precedence over any overt horror, and some people prefer their monsters to be external to themselves.  The Man Who Loved Flowers is masterfully done, an idyllic look at a young man in love that takes a deliciously insidious turn at the end.  I Know What You Need is similarly executed; this account of a young lady who finds true love (or so she thinks) in the most unlikely of potential mates calls to mind the psychological mastery of Shirley Jackson.<br /><br />There are no bad stories in this collection, but a few don't live up to the standards of the rest.  Strawberry Spring is a little disappointing, as this story of a serial killer who comes in with the fog of unusual New England weather is quite predictable.  I Am the Doorway, with its touch of alien horror, isn't as good as I think it might have been, Gray Matter is the equivalent of Creepshow's The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, The Mangler offers nothing special, Night Surf is a pale shadow of its cousin The Stand, and Trucks runs out of gas rather quickly.<br /><br />All in all, Night Shift delivers a shockingly good collection of short stories from the hand of a masterful story teller plumbing the depths of his horror-laden imagination while at the same time tapping into his immense knowledge of human nature and popular culture to produce tales of fiction that will appeal to a wide range of readers.kes a deliciously insidious turn at the end.  I Know What You Need is similarly executed; this account of a young lady who finds true love (or so she thinks) in the most unlikely of potential mates calls to mind the psychological mastery of Shirley Jackson.   <br /> <br />There are no bad stories in this collection, but a few don't live up to the standards of the rest.  Strawberry Spring is a little disappointing, as this story of a serial killer who comes in with the fog of unusual New England weather is quite predictable.  I Am the Doorway, with its touch of alien horror, isn't as good as I think it might have been, Gray Matter is the equivalent of Creepshow's The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill, The Mangler offers nothing special, Night Surf is a pale shadow of its cousin The Stand, and Trucks runs out of gas rather quickly. <br /> <br />All in all, Night Shift delivers a shockingly good collection of short stories from the hand of a masterful story teller plumbing the depths of his horror-laden imagination while at the same time tapping into his immense knowledge of human nature and popular culture to produce tales of fiction that will appeal to a wide range of readers.	2004-12-12
426882:US	53016962	R3EJAA5SLK9BUJ	0756401755	549026230	Fire And Sword: Keys Of Power #2	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A powerful, surprisingly dark follow-up to Inheritance	If there is one fantasy writer who, in my opinion, is not getting the attention he is due, it is Simon Brown.  Fire and Sword, the second novel in the Keys of Power series, not only advances the storyline begun in Inheritance in impressive style, it transforms it into an heroic tragedy of epic proportions.  In Inheritance, young Prince Lynan was basically a kid who slowly found himself divested of his innocence.  Looked down upon by virtually everyone in the halls of power of Grenda Lear - especially his half-brothers and half-sister - because his father was a commoner (albeit the greatest general the realm has ever seen), Lynan was forced to flee the land entirely after a malevolent coup framed him for the death of his brother on the very night of his coronation.  Escaping with Kumul, the ex-captain of the palace guard, Ager Crookback, an old soldier who had served his father during the Slaver War, and Jenrosa Alucar, a student of magic who found herself in the wrong place at the wrong time, Lynan made his way to the Sea of Grass, where he hoped to find safety - and possibly an army - among the Chetts, a people who once fought under the banner of his father.<br /><br />As Fire and Sword opens, Lynan's transformation from a boy to a man reaches its completion - and more than that, for he now begins to act in the manner of a royal soldier-king.  He also privately fights periodic urges of a bestial nature, a consequence of the life-saving blood of Silona, vampire of the woods, now coursing through his veins.  The Chetts are nomadic tribes resistant to central rule, but they still revere the name of Lynan's father.  With the help of Korigan, queen of the largest Chett tribe, and the compelling significance of the Key of Union he wears around his neck, Lynan does indeed find his army.  Back in Grenda Lear, the new Queen Areava is enraged to learn that her murderous half-brother still lives, and she vows to see him dead, going so far as to hire mercenaries to undertake the deed.  It is truly a time of great change in the land, for war is clearly coming to Grenda Lear.  The neighboring kingdom is preparing an invasion force, and the preparations for her land's defense come amidst the time of Areava's marriage to the son of the King of Aman.  Areava rules with an icy hand, never realizing that she is being manipulated every step of the way by the real killers of the king.  Palace intrigue and a brewing drama surrounding Prince Olio give this story a subtly intriguing complexity few authors can handle in such a deft manner as that seen here.<br /><br />Everything gets very complicated very quickly.  Areava prepares her army to meet the army of neighboring Haxus, while both sides have sent forces into the Sea of Grass in hopes of either capturing or killing Lynan.  Neither side's war plans allow for the possibility that Lynan has put together an army of his own, yet both must eventually face the Chett army of the young prince as he comes to reclaim Grenda Lear for himself.<br /><br />Fire and Sword is a surprisingly dark novel, offering portentous revelations I for one had not anticipated.  Lynan's band of friends begins to drift apart as this story progresses, although they remain loyal to one another and to Lynan's cause.  A few moments of light comedy emerge here and there, but Lynan is now a very serious young man with a mission - one that will ultimately lead his friends into battle against their own people.  The battle scenes are vividly described and pulse with excitement and danger.  Having said all that, I must admit I was not prepared for the final two chapters of this novel, however.  Not only do things take several dark, heartrending turns, events all over the different kingdoms are brought to a simultaneous crescendo of stunning tragedy and despair.  You do not lay Fire and Sword aside lightly after you finish reading it.  These lands and these people, especially the heroic band of Lynan's followers, are irrevocably changed by the course of events chronicled here, and I for one look upon the prospect of the third exhilarating book in this series with a real sense of trepidation as well as heartfelt excitement - peace and happiness in the fantasy world of Simon Brown's creation have never seemed farther away than they do right now.  This is truly powerful stuff, and I only wish more readers would have the chance to experience the work of this master fantasist.bly changed by the course of events chronicled here, and I for one look upon the prospect of the third exhilarating book in this series with a real sense of trepidation as well as heartfelt excitement - peace and happiness in the fantasy world of Simon Brown's creation have never seemed farther away than they do right now.  This is truly powerful stuff, and I only wish more readers would have the chance to experience the work of this master fantasist.	2004-12-11
427549:US	53016962	R6STL2KPEENNM	0451459636	999677008	Mechwarrior:Dark Age #8:Fortress of Lies (A Battletech Novel) (Mechwarrior: Dark Ages, 8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A thrilling tale of political intrigue and deception	Those still unhappy with the changes the Mechwarrior: Dark Age sagas have wrought to the original Battletech universe cannot help but warm up to the new series with efforts such as this one by J. Steven York, the eighth novel in the new series.  Fortress of Lies is not heavy with actual Mechwarrior combat, but its plethora of political intrigue offers further illumination on the weakening of the Republic.  It also boasts some compelling, complex characters in the form of two different generations of the legendary Sandoval family line (as well as a somewhat stereotypical but very entertainingly independent ship's captain).<br /><br />The destruction of the Hyper Pulse Generator has seen the Republic start to fracture; with instant communication among the worlds no longer possible, ambitious men exploit the situation to make power-plays of their own.  Duke Aaron Sandoval, Lord Governor of Prefecture V, is one such man.  The insurgency of the House Liao faction of the Capellans has provided the Duke with the opportunity to build a coalition of his own, as he has been hard at work promising neighboring worlds the stability the Republic is no longer able to guarantee.  Due in no small part to the heroics of his nephew Erik Sandoval, the Duke has achieved an important victory on the world of New Aragon.  He needs allies and, more importantly, the war materiel they would bring to his coalition in order to further his plans, however.  Only then will he feel emboldened enough to declare his loyalty to the House of Davion rather than the weakening Republic.  Erik is to play a key role in the Duke's strategy,<br /><br />After the abrupt end of unsuccessful negotiations with the leaders of New Canton, the Duke's plans are almost waylaid permanently by the work of an assassin, but Duke Aaron Sandoval is a survivor in the best Swordsworn tradition.  If anything, the brush with death inspires Aaron to accelerate his plans.  He sends his nephew Erik to Shensi to secure an alliance with a reluctant but militarily strong potential ally; it's a tough deal to sell, as the Shensi seem likely to seek peace with House Liao.  Aaron has a few cards up his sleeve, however, including a staged attack by the \\"Capellans\\" in the midst of Erik's negotiations.  Erik, like the Shensi, believes the Capellans are attacking, and he is none too happy to find out later that his uncle sent him into grave danger without informing him of the attackers' true identity.  This incident of deception on his uncle's part marks a turning point in Erik's life, as the seeds of mistrust for his uncle begin to sprout solid roots.  His eventual self-interested move must wait for a later day, however, as the Swordsworn suddenly face the prospect of a back-breaking defeat on another pivotal world.<br /><br />Mechwarrior fans will most likely wish for longer and more detailed Mechwarrior battles, as the one extended fight seems to end a little too abruptly.  Somewhat offsetting this deficiency, though, is the added insight one gets into the state of the Republic in the new interplanetary communications dark age.  It is hard to overstate the significance of Duke Standoval's formal rejection of the Republic and public statement of loyalty to House Davion.  Fortress of Lies sheds much light on the state of growing factionalism that is quickly replacing the peace achieved under the central leadership of the Republic.<br /><br />York's first Mechwarrior novel is an absorbing read full of fascinating, well-developed characters.  On the surface, it would seem that Erik is the noble character wronged by the evil Duke, but I actually liked and respected the Duke more than I did Erik.  I had particularly ambiguous feelings toward Erik's new mindset at the end of the book, as his actions fell slightly short of noble.  Still, he is a Sandoval, and he is beginning to live up to his heritage.  It is obvious that there is quite a story left to be told about the future of the Swordsworn, and I personally hope that J. Steven York is the writer chosen to tell it.and I personally hope that J. Steven York is the writer chosen to tell it.	2004-12-11
431878:US	53016962	RPUT6K79N2A8D	1590594037	988884539	Cube Farm	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Doesn't matter if everyone's onboard if the ship is sinking	It's funny because it's true.  Well, it's really not that funny if it happens to you, and that's why you need to learn the lessons Bill Blunden learned the hard way over the course of three woeful years of cubicle hell so that you can avoid suffering the same soul-destroying fate.  Blunden's workplace warnings go out specifically to high-minded computer programmers sashaying across stages with pointy hats atop their heads, but the lessons imparted in this book can be applied by anyone to innumerable aspects of life.  Life is not going to reward your collegiate efforts by dropping a fantastic job in your lap.  Just finding a job may be tough, and the chances are good that you will never find a truly satisfying way to pay the bills.  If you are extremely unlucky, you may find yourself trapped in a highly dysfunctional workplace such as the one described in this book, and you will look desperately for any port in a storm.  Whatever happens, you will certainly encounter some of the personality types and managerial handlers described so effectively in these pages, and having prior knowledge of the danger zones ahead and the types of coworkers to look out before can be of tremendous help to you, your career, and your sanity.  That is why Cube Farm is an important book.<br /><br />Bill Blunden worked hard to earn a degree in physics from Cornell.  Justifiably proud of his academic achievements, he sauntered into real life thinking the world was his oyster; he found out that the world is indeed a big oyster, but it has a habit of swallowing you whole when you reach in and begin searching for your own personal pearl.  After waiting tables for three years, he went back to school and got a degree in operations research; job offers finally began to come in, and he chose to accept a position at Lawson Software in Minnesota.  Thus began three years of hell.  He had embellished his resume somewhat to claim he was a Java expert, and now he was a full-fledged software engineer.  He was eager and determined to learn and contribute to the company, but he soon found out that the company was not eager to train him to do the job.  This was in part due to the fact that only a handful of people still understood Lawson's clunky, leviathan-like code in the first place, but it was also due to bad management.  His co-workers were little help, as the company environment led to intense competition within the ranks.  Everyone wanted the best project for himself, time and money were wasted by having two teams basically competing for the same prize, and self-interest alongside the need to provide for a family led to knowledge hoarding.  This was not the atmosphere of collegial teamwork Blunden had expected to find.<br /><br />Blunden worked on one failed project after another.  These were projects that seemed destined to fail; everyone knew it, especially the programmers, but the managers at Lawson basically ignored problems and left their teams hanging in the wind on a daily basis.  A couple of good souls helped Blunden along the way, but by and large his work experience was shaped by characters easily defined by the names he assigns to them in the book: Long John Silver, Mad Dawg, the Shill, the Godfather, the Last Mohican, the Wax Artist, the Puppet Master, and others.  Work became a horrible chore to Blunden, disillusionment set in, frustration rose, and then things got even worse.  The stories he tells here seem extreme, but anyone who has ever worked in a cubicle or been assigned an oar to row a captainless ship going nowhere but down into a deep, dark, watery grave, knows just what he is talking about.  Few experiences are as ridiculously awful as his, but even the best and the brightest encounter similar experiences to some degree.<br /><br />This book is meant to help those to come, to warn them of the dangers ahead, but I'm not sure how helpful the book is in terms of overcoming such problems.  Certainly, Blunden met with virtually no success in terms of coping to professional life in his own twisted environment.  To Blunden's credit, he does commiserate with individuals who do what they have to do in order to care for their families.  Management, however, is viciously hoisted on its own petard - and seemingly justifiably so.<br /><br />Knowledge is power, and one can clearly seek a destination much more efficiently when the blinders of naivet&eacute; and ignorance are removed.  In order to tell his own story, Blunden does take the time to explain a few technical matters involving programming, but he does a great job of conveying such necessary information in terms a layman can understand.  Some would say that Blunden is far too cynical, but who can blame him given his horrifying experiences?  Others would blame him for his own lack of success, and maybe there's a grain of truth to that.  Clearly, though, he faced challenges deeply embedded in the managerial infrastructure, and I feel he has done a great service to all workers, especially cubicle dwellers, by pointing the harsh light of truth on problems systemic in too many workplace environments.s in terms of coping to professional life in his own twisted environment.  To Blunden's credit, he does commiserate with individuals who do what they have to do in order to care for their families.  Management, however, is viciously hoisted on its own petard - and seemingly justifiably so.   <br /> <br />Knowledge is power, and one can clearly seek a destination much more efficiently when the blinders of naivet and ignorance are removed.  In order to tell his own story, Blunden does take the time to explain a few technical matters involving programming, but he does a great job of conveying such necessary information in terms a layman can understand.  Some would say that Blunden is far too cynical, but who can blame him given his horrifying experiences?  Others would blame him for his own lack of success, and maybe there's a grain of truth to that.  Clearly, though, he faced challenges deeply embedded in the managerial infrastructure, and I feel he has done a great service to all workers, especially cubicle dwellers, by pointing the harsh light of truth on problems systemic in too many workplace environments.	2004-12-07
434796:US	53016962	R1OYYYRL5G16UM	0345427653	241741985	Star Wars, Episode 1: The Phantom Menace	Books	4	17	21	N	N	A perfectly adequate novelization of the film	With the theatrical release of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith only months away, it seems like a good time to begin preparing myself for the new film.  While I did not judge Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace as harshly as many Star Wars fans did, there can be no doubt that the film paled in comparison to the force of the original trilogy.  Even as a six-year old child, everything about the first Star Wars film in 1977 seemed seared into my memory, and it somewhat saddens me to know that the children of this generation, after seeing The Phantom Menace for the first time, will never know the power and obsessive joy that the original Star Wars trilogy invoked in the children of my generation.  Frankly, after two viewings of Star Wars Episode One: The Phantom Menace a few years ago, only bits and pieces resonate in my memory, and I really do need to review the people and events of this film (as well as Episode Two: Attack of the Clones) before I feel ready to see Episode Three.<br /><br />The powers that be certainly found an illustrious author to transform George Lucas' screenplay and story into novelized form.  I've been a fan of Terry Brooks ever since reading The Sword of Shannara as a child, and Brooks has done a thoroughly professional job with this novel.  Everything that happened in the film is described with great discernment, the furious action of intense scenes such as the battle between Qui-Gon Jinn and Darth Maul is vividly rendered, the moments of light humor are translated expertly to the page, and the emotional aspects of the plot, especially those concerning Anakin Skywalker and Padme Amidala, are drawn in tender yet meaningful strokes.  This is truly a commendable and faithful novelization of the film.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the problems of Lucas' story are also faithfully captured in this novelized retelling.  These characters just do not fire the imagination in the way Luke, Han, Leia, and Darth Vader did.  I consider only two of these characters to be truly strong ones: Anakin and Padme, and unfortunately, events of the future serve to diminish them in different ways.  I love Padme, though, and she is every bit the future mother of Luke and Leia, a queen and a fighter who will risk anything for her people.  That being said, I must say that Anakin (and I swear I will never get used to the future Darth Vader being referred to as \\"Annie\\") isn't everything I thought he should be.  He's an extraordinary child, of course, thanks to all those midi-chlorians coursing through his blood, but I do not think his background as we learn it here provides for an acceptable future embrace of the dark side.  So much is made here by the Jedi Council - and Yoda in particular - of the dangers represented by the child's anger, but I don't see such anger in a slave boy who loves his mother dearly and seems to get by pretty well indeed on his own.  It may be wrong of me to criticize a story based on incongruities I see arising in a later installment, but I just don't think George Lucas (and thus, by implication, Terry Brooks) satisfactorily showed me how this dear, brave boy will soon become the exasperating young man we see in Episode Two.<br /><br />The only other thing I would say about this perfectly satisfactory novelization is the fact that it really adds nothing to the film itself.  Oftentimes, a novelization will add depth or better understanding to the film it is based upon, but that really isn't the case here.  Questions I had about the movie (the true essence of Senator Palpatine, for example) were not threshed out in the book.  In terms of refreshing my own memory of the story in preparation for the upcoming theatrical release of Revenge of the Sith, I could have saved myself some time and merely watched the film again.rs to be truly strong ones: Anakin and Padme, and unfortunately, events of the future serve to diminish them in different ways.  I love Padme, though, and she is every bit the future mother of Luke and Leia, a queen and a fighter who will risk anything for her people.  That being said, I must say that Anakin (and I swear I will never get used to the future Darth Vader being referred to as \\"Annie\\") isn't everything I thought he should be.  He's an extraordinary child, of course, thanks to all those midi-chlorians coursing through his blood, but I do not think his background as we learn it here provides for an acceptable future embrace of the dark side.  So much is made here by the Jedi Council - and Yoda in particular - of the dangers represented by the child's anger, but I don't see such anger in a slave boy who loves his mother dearly and seems to get by pretty well indeed on his own.  It may be wrong of me to criticize a story based on incongruities I see arising in a later installment, but I just don't think George Lucas (and thus, by implication, Terry Brooks) satisfactorily showed me how this dear, brave boy will soon become the exasperating young man we see in Episode Two.    The only other thing I would say about this perfectly satisfactory novelization is the fact that it really adds nothing to the film itself.  Oftentimes, a novelization will add depth or better understanding to the film it is based upon, but that really isn't the case here.  Questions I had about the movie (the true essence of Senator Palpatine, for example) were not threshed out in the book.  In terms of refreshing my own memory of the story in preparation for the upcoming theatrical release of Revenge of the Sith, I could have saved myself some time and merely watched the film again.	2004-12-05
435639:US	53016962	R2UD4BHBDFAH20	193176879X	829737901	Vanessa - Mended Harps	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The spiritual work of the ever-growing Family continues	David L. Howells' Vanessa series is, I daresay, a unique one.  The story is built around the Hawthorne Group, an ever-growing \\"Family\\" of individuals (alive as well as deceased) dedicated to finding restless spirits on Earth and helping them take their delayed next step beyond.  Over the course of the first four novels in the series (with Vanessa: Mended Harps being the fourth), the story has evolved somewhat as the size and know-how of the ever-growing organization of friends has expanded to almost unwieldy proportions.  This is most clearly evident in this particular novel by the fact that Vanessa herself, as well as her husband, the abnormally long-lived Ryan Fitzgalen, have become almost minor characters at this point in time.  Vanessa is Ryan's former wife, a spirit who remained at her husband's side after her death.  As the group's founding entity, Vanessa and her uniquely unusual skills served as the foundation upon which the Hawthorne Group/Fitzgalen family (as well as Howells' entire series) was built.  In the previous book, Vanessa: All Heaven Breaks Loose, however, Vanessa became human once again, taking over the body of a female serial killer who, by state decree, was not going to need her body very much longer.<br /><br />As is so often the case in this series, the events detailed in the previous book largely define the events that take place in the present one.  Vanessa: All Heaven Breaks Loose was truly a remarkable novel, one in which the Family dealt with a deadly attack from rogue religious forces who interpreted the work of the Hawthorne family as the work of evil (with Ryan as the Antichrist himself).  In the course of the attack, there were casualties, but it takes more than death to separate members of the Family.  Thus, the number of deceased entities working with the group increased to four, and the work went on.<br /><br />One of the group's more interesting missions resulted in the \\"good side\\" of a troubled spirit taking up residence inside an oak tree at a certain cemetery.  The unique hybrid formed by the spirits of the late Lincoln Marfan and of the tree itself has now evolved into an alien life form of sorts, one which reaches out of the past to threaten the Family at its weakest link: the two teenaged children of two of the founding members.  Both youngsters begin having strange recurring dreams, and the Family goes into crisis mode one night when the son is unable to awaken.  A ghostly exploration of his dream reveals strange sights and elicits disturbing questions, for apparently a strange and subconscious \\"virus\\" has somehow taken root inside the boy.  This whole frightening episode compels the boy's mother to sue for the custody of her two children, thus putting the Family in a quite different kind of crisis mode.<br /><br />Amidst the turmoil, though, the work does goes on.  Teams split up to take on a number of new assignments.  Readers will meet up with the ghost of Hawaii's last queen, Liliuokalani, witness a sobering breakthrough on the once-bloody grounds of Vietnam, and hear first-hand of the pope's concerns over the religious implications of the Family's work - among other things.  The final culmination of the events surrounding the aforementioned children must wait until the closing chapters, and as usual Howells provides for a surprising set of circumstances resulting in loss as well as spiritual growth.<br /><br />It is hard for me to describe these Vanessa novels.  The series has weaknesses, but in a strange way those weaknesses are also some of the books' greatest strengths.  I think it is safe to say that the number of important characters has now grown unwieldy by this point.  The author does provide a descriptive list of the characters at the back of the book, but I found it difficult to remember who each and every minor character was as I was reading.  Then there is the interaction of family members.  These people love each other a little too much to be natural; the very sight of someone can lead to group hysterics as everyone jumps up, slaps backs, and almost dances a jig.  I sometimes want to roll my eyes at scenes such as these, yet in a way it is this wealth of caring and good feeling that makes this group of people so special.  And the puns - these characters are shameless in their attempts to be \\"punny.\\"  In a way, it's annoying, yet in another way it's a plus.  Howells' writing makes you so familiar with all of these characters that you would be disappointed if they actually behaved any differently.<br /><br />I honestly love these Vanessa novels, but they will not satisfy the taste of some readers.  I do think it is very important that readers approach this series in a chronological fashion.  Much of the story in Vanessa: Mended Harps ties directly to events that took place in the previous novels, and I think it is hard to truly appreciate the work of the Fitzgalen Family and to understand the individual characters without having read each of the earlier novels in the series.the very sight of someone can lead to group hysterics as everyone jumps up, slaps backs, and almost dances a jig.  I sometimes want to roll my eyes at scenes such as these, yet in a way it is this wealth of caring and good feeling that makes this group of people so special.  And the puns - these characters are shameless in their attempts to be \\"punny.\\"  In a way, it's annoying, yet in another way it's a plus.  Howells' writing makes you so familiar with all of these characters that you would be disappointed if they actually behaved any differently.   <br /> <br />I honestly love these Vanessa novels, but they will not satisfy the taste of some readers.  I do think it is very important that readers approach this series in a chronological fashion.  Much of the story in Vanessa: Mended Harps ties directly to events that took place in the previous novels, and I think it is hard to truly appreciate the work of the Fitzgalen Family and to understand the individual characters without having read each of the earlier novels in the series.	2004-12-04
440482:US	53016962	R3FSYYSI41EZSK	067100316X	361427572	Star Trek First Contact (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful novelization with valuable insight of its own	This is, of course, the novelization of the highly successful Star Trek: The Next Generation film of the same name.  First Contact refers not to first contact with the Borg, for, six years later, Picard still bears the mental scars of his assimilation in the form of Locutus, but to Earth's first contact with an alien civilization.  It is a story that had yet to be told, although Captain Kirk and his crew had met the extraordinarily old Zefram Cochrane, inventor of the warp drive, in an episode of the original series; additionally, there had been hints that this pivotal event in human history took place some time after a terrible Third World War on Earth.<br /><br />As the story begins, the Borg have attacked the Federation, with one of their massive cube ships making a bee-line for Earth herself.  Picard and the new Enterprise-E starship defy Starfleet orders and rush to the battle, after which they follow a small Borg ship through a time portal which takes them back to 21st-century Earth.  The Borg plan is to destroy the Phoenix, the spacecraft which Zefram Cochrane launches and, by way of its successful warp drive test, captures the attention of a Federation scout ship.  If that pivotal event does not happen, the Federation we all know and love will never come to be.  While half of the senior staff is planet-side trying to make sure the Phoenix launch happens on schedule, the rest of the crew find themselves battling a Borg infestation onboard the Enterprise herself.  Data is captured, Picard is in danger of letting his hatred of the Borg overrule logic and reason, and we get to meet the Borg Queen.  Personally, I've always felt that the introduction of the Borg Queen was a disservice to the greatest Star Trek villains of them all.  The Borg Queen is a complete contradiction that introduced a level of individual vulnerability into a collective that was, up until this time, faceless and seemingly invulnerable.<br /><br />This is an impressive novelization of the film, making it a worthwhile read to those of us who are already familiar with the onscreen story.  In particular, it provides a great deal of insight into the erratic nature of Zefram Cochrane himself; in the movie, he came across as basically a drunk, but the novelization does a much better job of explaining his behavior.  That alone makes this novel a natural and extremely beneficial corollary to the movie.e film, making it a worthwhile read to those of us who are already familiar with the onscreen story.  In particular, it provides a great deal of insight into the erratic nature of Zefram Cochrane himself; in the movie, he came across as basically a drunk, but the novelization does a much better job of explaining his behavior.  That alone makes this novel a natural and extremely beneficial corollary to the movie.	2004-11-30
443459:US	53016962	R27G6RERLQM6HY	0441011136	946983828	Agents of Light and Darkness (Nightside, Book 2)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	In search of the Unholy Grail	In Something From the Nightside, Simon R. Green introduced us to a secret world found deep beneath the streets of London, a fantastical place where it is always 3 AM and the unimaginable is commonplace.  John Taylor, a private eye blessed with a unique gift for finding anything, returned home to the Nightside after several years in the real world, reneging on a promise he had made to himself to never go back.  A girl was missing, and - more importantly - her mother was willing to pay good money to get her back.  It appears Taylor is now back to stay, if for no other reason than to investigate the mystery of his own destiny and that of the inhuman mother he never knew.  All of that will have to wait for the moment, however, as angels have come to the Nightside.<br /><br />The very future of the Nightside, not to mention a little something called the Apocalypse, hangs in the balance as the forces of good and evil tear the Nightside apart in search of a powerful object that has gone missing.  It is nothing less than the Unholy Grail, the cup from which Judas Iscariot drank at the Last Supper.  If anyone can find it, it is John Taylor - and everyone in the Nightside knows it.  Already commissioned by a strange little man representing the Vatican, Taylor finds himself at the very center of the most dangerous case of his career.  Even the good angels care little for man, and they don't shirk from leaving burned out husks and pillars of salt in their wake.  They also can't be trusted any more than the angels of darkness, as Taylor learns all too well - first-hand.  Unfortunately for Taylor, this means he can't use his special gift for finding things in his search for the Unholy Grail, as it allows the angels to pinpoint his location.  Knowing he will need some extra muscle to survive this one, he teams up with trigger-happy Shotgun Suzie and calls in a few special favors from erstwhile associates such as Razor Eddie, Punk God of the Straight Razor, and Strangefellows bar owner (and Merlin ancestor) Alex Morrisey.<br /><br />Taylor's search takes him to such infamous places as the Pit, a club run by the Demon Lordz; the headquarters of the Fourth Reich; the old Styx Theatre where the dead and undead go for entertainment; and that most secret and mysterious of places  - the warehouse holding all of the treasures of the Collector.  The reader will learn all about the Speaking Gun, the only weapon capable of harming angels, and witness characters and events unusual even by Nightside standards.  Aside from the search for the Unholy Grail, Agents of Light and Darkness also holds out clues to the possible future we glimpsed (courtesy of a Timeslip) in Something From the Nightside, especially John Taylor's place in that future and the truth about his long-lost mother.  It is a truth that seemingly threatens to destroy the Nightside and the world around it.<br /><br />This is a very quick read, and it is constantly entertaining.  Black humor abounds, moral truths are addressed in the most unusual of manners, friends and enemies interact in increasingly unexpected ways, and the ending does not disappoint, actually adding much to an already exciting and highly compelling story.  Even secondary characters such as Shotgun Suzie and the Collector begin to take on an unexpected depth in this novel - obviously, Green is still building for the future of the Nightside series.  While this book stands apart from its predecessor, underlying themes tie the two together and pave the way for future eagerly anticipated jaunts to this ingenious underworld of Green's creation.owner (and Merlin ancestor) Alex Morrisey.   <br /> <br />Taylor's search takes him to such infamous places as the Pit, a club run by the Demon Lordz; the headquarters of the Fourth Reich; the old Styx Theatre where the dead and undead go for entertainment; and that most secret and mysterious of places  - the warehouse holding all of the treasures of the Collector.  The reader will learn all about the Speaking Gun, the only weapon capable of harming angels, and witness characters and events unusual even by Nightside standards.  Aside from the search for the Unholy Grail, Agents of Light and Darkness also holds out clues to the possible future we glimpsed (courtesy of a Timeslip) in Something From the Nightside, especially John Taylor's place in that future and the truth about his long-lost mother.  It is a truth that seemingly threatens to destroy the Nightside and the world around it. <br /> <br />This is a very quick read, and it is constantly entertaining.  Black humor abounds, moral truths are addressed in the most unusual of manners, friends and enemies interact in increasingly unexpected ways, and the ending does not disappoint, actually adding much to an already exciting and highly compelling story.  Even secondary characters such as Shotgun Suzie and the Collector begin to take on an unexpected depth in this novel - obviously, Green is still building for the future of the Nightside series.  While this book stands apart from its predecessor, underlying themes tie the two together and pave the way for future eagerly anticipated jaunts to this ingenious underworld of Green's creation.	2004-11-27
443692:US	53016962	R1OYG250MX2DVE	1568652518	473479406	Houston, Houston, do you read? (The Science Fiction Book Club collection)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Hugo and Nebula Award-winning feminist science fiction	When I recently came across a copy of Houston, Houston Do You Read? I had never heard of James Tiptree, Jr.  This story, which resides somewhere between long short story and novella, won both Nebula and Hugo Awards, though, and that certainly snared my interest.  In the end, though, I find myself much more interested in the author than the story - frankly, the story never really captured my imagination at all, and I'm having trouble understanding why it was such a big deal.  It is a feminist story, and that is its primary claim to fame.  As for myself, I saw some men behaving badly (what else is new?), but obviously I'm not close enough to the feminist wavelength to get a real charge out of what I read here.<br /><br />In the story, three astronauts returning to Earth are stymied in their attempts to contact Mission Control in Houston; some women keep popping up on the frequency, and it takes a while for the startling truth to sink in: somehow, the three male astronauts have experienced a time slip and now find themselves a few hundred years in the future.  They aren't that keen on being saved by a bunch of women (you know how men hate to ask a woman for directions), but it eventually becomes clear that they have no choice (unless they would prefer a slow, agonizing death in space).  These women are a little different, though, and it soon becomes clear that they are hiding something.  The truth is rather obvious, but it takes a while for the protagonist to figure things out - in the midst of a drug-induced haze, we flash back with him to earlier parts of the story and slowly put together the clues that make his situation, without question, unique.<br /><br />James Tiptree, Jr., was famous for writing incredibly insightful gender-bending and feminist stories.  A generally unsuspected truth about the author finally became public about the time this story was published, however.  To the shock of basically everyone (including Robert Silverberg, who had recently gone out of his way to characterize the masculinity of Tiptree's writing), Tiptree (a former Army Air Corps major and retired CIA employee) turned out to be a woman named Alice Sheldon.  Actually, Houston, Houston Do You Read? was published under the name Raccoona Sheldon (the use of two pen names was a handy means of getting two stories published in one collection).  A general brouhaha ensued, robbing the author of much of her creative utility in the years to follow.  In 1987, she was found dead alongside her husband; he had no desire to live since he became infirm, and she had no desire to live without him, so she killed him and then herself.<br /><br />A sense of darkness and mystery seems to characterize Sheldon's fiction, and her writing was reportedly rather shocking for reading audiences in the early 1970s.  Today, the James Tiptree, Jr. Award is given annually for the science fiction work that best explores the issue of gender, proving that the trail-blazing legacy of Alice Sheldon lives on.  I wish I could say I really enjoyed this award-winning story, but it never really drew me in to its strange future world.  Those with an interest in feminism, though, especially feminism in science fiction, should definitely check out the work of James Tiptree, Jr., and this famous story would certainly seem to be a good place to start.ne out of his way to characterize the masculinity of Tiptree's writing), Tiptree (a former Army Air Corps major and retired CIA employee) turned out to be a woman named Alice Sheldon.  Actually, Houston, Houston Do You Read? was published under the name Raccoona Sheldon (the use of two pen names was a handy means of getting two stories published in one collection).  A general brouhaha ensued, robbing the author of much of her creative utility in the years to follow.  In 1987, she was found dead alongside her husband; he had no desire to live since he became infirm, and she had no desire to live without him, so she killed him and then herself.   <br /> <br />A sense of darkness and mystery seems to characterize Sheldon's fiction, and her writing was reportedly rather shocking for reading audiences in the early 1970s.  Today, the James Tiptree, Jr. Award is given annually for the science fiction work that best explores the issue of gender, proving that the trail-blazing legacy of Alice Sheldon lives on.  I wish I could say I really enjoyed this award-winning story, but it never really drew me in to its strange future world.  Those with an interest in feminism, though, especially feminism in science fiction, should definitely check out the work of James Tiptree, Jr., and this famous story would certainly seem to be a good place to start.	2004-11-27
448300:US	53016962	R25IBDSD9NN0GV	0595318673	655494008	Dreamtime: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Poignant stories set in the misty outskirts of the mundane	Dreamtime is an apt title for this collection of short stories.  The author has a wonderfully natural writing style, and in all but one case the story feels as if the author is right there with you recounting personal stories beside the hearth - indeed, the majority of the stories are drawn from personal experience, as the author tells us in his Preface.  The naturalistic style of the writing makes for a perfect medium in which Steiner introduces touches of the dream-like and supernatural.  In story after story, the world of the mundane is gradually infused with an atmosphere of intellectual, almost dreamlike fog.<br /><br />The initial story, The Decoy, is rather atypical of the eleven stories collected here, in that it does not stray into the realm of the unusual.  It does, however, show how good can come of seemingly bad occurrences.  The sense of dreamlike experience first manifests itself in The Hiker's Tale: At Anton's Restaurant, in my opinion the most effective story in the collection.  In this tale, an older gentleman finds himself caught in a sudden snowstorm, only to find a needed respite in the form of a most unusual restaurant.<br /><br />Two of the stories, The Student Pilot and The Returning Student, share a similar theme; they don't deal with reincarnation per se, but in each case a great man of the past seems to make an unexpected and relatively brief trip into a contemporary but otherwise mundane setting.  Canine Fantasies was a story I particularly enjoyed; here, the main character is given an invisible canine companion by a hypnotist, and this supposedly transient spirit eventually becomes the man's best friend in ways few would believe.<br /><br />Several of the stories are open-ended explorations of extreme possibilities.  The Disappearance, for instance, puts forth one possible scenario of The Rapture in the form of a man with whom the protagonist has, he realizes after the fact, a brief but personal connection.  Events and personalities coming back together for a seemingly preordained purpose is also the formula for the story The Sea Witch.  Phoenix Street is the only story with a real feeling of creepiness embedded within it - in the form of a malevolent old lady who affects a young Harvard graduate student's life, despite the fact the two individuals have never truly met.<br /><br />A palpable sense of unreality or perhaps hyper-reality is evinced in the story The Uninvited Guest.  Here, a stranded traveler wanders into an upscale party of strange characters espousing radical ideas.  There would seem to be a context of political philosophy built into this story, but it is hard to say more without giving anything away.<br /><br />The Pilgrim proves to be the most unusual story in the collection; it offers an allegorically striking and most unusual take on the subject of dying.  I would have liked to have seen this story close out the book rather than the much less effective tale Round Trip.  This final tale differs from the others in that it is told from the perspective of a third person, and its somewhat depressing account of an astronaut returning to a world forty years in his future (thanks to the conundrum of relativity) casts a dark reflection on the reader's consciousness.<br /><br />Needless to say, I found Dreamtime a most impressive short story collection.  While the author devoted his life to science, he obviously developed at the same time a deep sense of the human condition, with all its fears, desires, and mysteries.  His writing style, far from the cold and sterile manner you might associate with a man of science, is in fact vibrant and exceedingly smooth and natural.  Steiner chose the title Dreamtime because the word reflects a time of creativity and dreamlike magic, and as such it seems to fit this collection of stories perfectly.es coming back together for a seemingly preordained purpose is also the formula for the story The Sea Witch.  Phoenix Street is the only story with a real feeling of creepiness embedded within it - in the form of a malevolent old lady who affects a young Harvard graduate student's life, despite the fact the two individuals have never truly met.   <br /> <br />A palpable sense of unreality or perhaps hyper-reality is evinced in the story The Uninvited Guest.  Here, a stranded traveler wanders into an upscale party of strange characters espousing radical ideas.  There would seem to be a context of political philosophy built into this story, but it is hard to say more without giving anything away.   <br /> <br />The Pilgrim proves to be the most unusual story in the collection; it offers an allegorically striking and most unusual take on the subject of dying.  I would have liked to have seen this story close out the book rather than the much less effective tale Round Trip.  This final tale differs from the others in that it is told from the perspective of a third person, and its somewhat depressing account of an astronaut returning to a world forty years in his future (thanks to the conundrum of relativity) casts a dark reflection on the reader's consciousness. <br /> <br />Needless to say, I found Dreamtime a most impressive short story collection.  While the author devoted his life to science, he obviously developed at the same time a deep sense of the human condition, with all its fears, desires, and mysteries.  His writing style, far from the cold and sterile manner you might associate with a man of science, is in fact vibrant and exceedingly smooth and natural.  Steiner chose the title Dreamtime because the word reflects a time of creativity and dreamlike magic, and as such it seems to fit this collection of stories perfectly.	2004-11-22
449699:US	53016962	R148QT0D9FTWK5	0595311598	164707296	Love and The Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Illuminating, insightful, and thrilling all at the same time	Love and the Power is a beautifully written novel that takes us into the world of a criminal mastermind and his network of aides, accomplices, and victims.  John Eidemak has an intimate knowledge of the world of corporate finance, and this knowledge forms a solid foundation upon which Eidemak builds an insightful and truly exceptional story of greed and its consequences.<br /><br />John Forbes grew up in the shadows of Cerne Estate, where his mother worked as a housekeeper following the death of John's father and the family's resulting financial struggles.  Young John dedicated himself to acquiring wealth and power, dreaming of the day when he could buy Cerne Estate and marry the young Lady Carven.  At fifteen, he steals an antique handgun and learns that crime seemingly does pay; thus begins his life of crime.  John Forbes is no common criminal, however.  During a period of imprisonment at age 24, Forbes puts together his master plan for the future.  The trafficking of hash into England establishes a monetary foundation for his efforts, but Forbes concentrates on the takeover and exploitation of different companies - oftentimes looting them of their assets and then leaving some other poor dopes holding the empty bag - in almost no time at all, Forbes has put together an invisible yet gigantic network of holdings.  He surrounds himself with men and women capable of carrying out his orders, ascertaining timely financial moves, deeply burying Forbes' as well as their own involvement in the criminal enterprise, and dealing with uncooperative parties who pose a danger to the Company.<br /><br />To some degree, Love and the Power is actually the story of three men.  Alongside John Forbes, we also follow the lives of Erick Elgberg, one of Forbes' most trusted associates, and Paul Dockett, the victimized scapegoat of one of Forbes' many deals.  Elgberg makes for an interesting contrast with his boss; both are extremely intelligent, power-hungry, unscrupulous men who come together via different directions in life, but Elgberg proves unwilling to take the sort of extreme actions Forbes sometimes insists upon in order to protect himself and the Company.  Paul Dockett is in many ways the lynchpin of the story; this previously honest bank manager was exploited by representatives of the Company and left to take the fall for his elusive associates.  The Company used their influence to make his time in prison as palatable as possible and even took care of his wife while he was imprisoned, but any loyalty Dockett still feels to the men responsible for his downfall is threatened when he learns the extent of his wife's involvement with them.<br /><br />As the novel progresses, we learn the stories of these three key men and watch as their lives eventually touch and become entwined with one another.  Eidemak's writing boasts an impressive degree of insight into the lives of these characters; they may be cold, ruthless criminals on the outside, but each of these men is very human indeed - particularly John Forbes, whose personal problems make him an extraordinarily human character.  Forbes definitely has a heart, one which can easily be broken by marital problems and, most poignantly, by the illness of his beloved son.  It is hard not to like John Forbes, especially when he begins to long for a life of legitimacy and self-respect.  Elgberg does not display the pathos or emotional depth of Forbes, but he is a striking character I had trouble figuring out to my satisfaction.  Dockett comes to define the role of victim, and he develops into a character obsessed with outrage and revenge against those who had ruined his life.  Minor characters are drawn with great care and realism, as well, each one adding a source of richness and depth to an altogether impressive novel.<br /><br />Don't worry if you are unfamiliar with the nuances of corporate takeovers, business fraud, and similarly sundry issues of illegality committed on a large commercial scale,as Eidemak's elucidation of Forbes' grand schemes is just as impressive as his delineation and development of his vivid characters.  Love and the Power proves to be an unqualified success whichever way you choose to look at it.  A basic understanding of Forbes' business life is necessary in order to come to terms with the man he becomes in his private life.  The two halves can be hard to reconcile into one man, yet this is often true of even the most notorious of criminals.  Forbes makes for a truly fascinating character study.<br /><br />One inevitably must wonder how a book such as this will end; in far too many cases, wonderful reads have been ruined by disappointing conclusions.  Love and the Power, I am happy to say, features an ending more than worthy of the literary magic that has come before it.  I for one was surprised and quite taken away by the climactic few moments of the story; thus, while I have now put the completed book down, I know I will carry this novel around with me - inside my head - for some time to come.rcial scale, as Eidemak's elucidation of Forbes' grand schemes is just as impressive as his delineation and development of his vivid characters.  Love and the Power proves to be an unqualified success whichever way you choose to look at it.  A basic understanding of Forbes' business life is necessary in order to come to terms with the man he becomes in his private life.  The two halves can be hard to reconcile into one man, yet this is often true of even the most notorious of criminals.  Forbes makes for a truly fascinating character study.  <br /> <br />One inevitably must wonder how a book such as this will end; in far too many cases, wonderful reads have been ruined by disappointing conclusions.  Love and the Power, I am happy to say, features an ending more than worthy of the literary magic that has come before it.  I for one was surprised and quite taken away by the climactic few moments of the story; thus, while I have now put the completed book down, I know I will carry this novel around with me - inside my head - for some time to come.	2004-11-21
453980:US	53016962	RFE4DMXDEV1D2	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	5	251	269	N	N	King's apocalyptic masterpiece of modern literature	The Stand, in my opinion, marks Stephen King's progression from horror to literature.  Consistently voted fans' favorite King novel ever since its initial publication in 1978 (although I personally consider the novel It his finest work), The Stand delivers an archetypal conflict pitting good against evil against a backdrop of civilization itself.  In this extraordinary novel, King fully unleashes the horrors previously contained in the microcosms of an extraordinary person (Carrie), a single town ('Salem's Lot), and a haunted hotel far removed from civilization (The Shining).<br /><br />This is how the world ends: with a human-engineered superflu which escapes containment in the form of a terrified guard who unwittingly spreads death over a wide swath of southwestern America in his bid to escape infection.  Captain Trips, they call it - until they die, and people die in droves within a matter of days.  In almost no time at all, well over 99% of the American population have suffered an agonizing death.  Those that are left all alone begin to dream: comforting visions of an ancient black lady called Mother Abigail in Nebraska rising up alongside nightmares of a faceless man out west.  Many find their way to Las Vegas to serve under Randall Flag, the Walking Dude of their night visions, but many others flock to Mother Abigail in Nebraska and eventually Boulder, Colorado.  As the citizens of the Boulder Free Zone attempt to reform society and make a new life for themselves, they are forced to come to terms with the fact that they are caught up in a struggle defined by their spiritual leader in religious terms.  They must destroy Flagg or be destroyed by him - in a word, they must make their stand.<br /><br />I could not begin to describe the dozens of richly drawn characters King gives life to in these pages.  They are ordinary people called to do extraordinary things in a world reeking of death and fear.  Some are not up to the challenge, and betrayal has awful consequences in this new reality - to the betrayer as well as the betrayed.  These are real human beings, flaws and all; there is good to be found even among those serving the greatest of evils, and at the same time, the good guys don't always behave in ways you think they should.  Nick Andros, Nadine Cross, Larry Underwood, Glen Bateman, Stu Redman, Harold Lauder, Mother Abigail, Tom Cullen, Randall Flagg, Trash Can Man - these are characters you will never forget.  I must admit the climax of the great struggle just doesn't seem to be all it might be, but the first 1000 pages of this novel are so good that even Stephen King could hardly be expected to top what he had already accomplished in the framing of this ultimate conflict.<br /><br />I find it slightly odd that religion plays such a small part in this visionary apocalypse.  As far as Mother Abigail and, eventually, the novel's heroes are concerned, this is a religious fight between the imps of Satan and the servants of God, but you won't find any theology apart from a few misplaced references to Revelations by frightened characters, and no preacher of any faith seems to have survived the superflu outbreak itself.<br /><br />I wouldn't call this a scary novel, but it certainly does have its moments - best exemplified by one character's journey through a dark tunnel surrounded by invisible but very dead and decaying bodies caught in an eternal traffic jam.  The real horror, of course, is the all-pervasive atmosphere of a world decimated by man's self-imposed destruction.  Death is literally everywhere these characters turn - in the silent houses and cars all around them, in the streets upon which they travel, in the terrifying nightmares they have of the Walking Dude, and even in the future they try to avoid thinking about, as no one knows whether the superflu will kill the children yet to be born.  I found the sections dealing with the reconstitution of a society of some sort to be the most interesting aspect of thenovel - will it be like the old society, will it repeat the mistakes of the last one, etc.  This is also a story of personal redemption, as the novels' heroes must overcome their pasts and/or their human weaknesses and handicaps in order to make their stand.  When the deaf-mute Nick tells Mother Abigail that he does not believe in God, she tells him that it doesn't matter because God believes in him - that is a truly empowering message.<br /><br />There is an intriguing philosophical undercurrent to this novel that applies both eloquently and meaningfully to the human condition.  The Stand is modern literature, a direct descendant of such epics as The Iliad and The Odyssey, and you will learn something about yourself when you read this masterpiece of contemporary literature.aspect of the novel - will it be like the old society, will it repeat the mistakes of the last one, etc.  This is also a story of personal redemption, as the novels' heroes must overcome their pasts and/or their human weaknesses and handicaps in order to make their stand.  When the deaf-mute Nick tells Mother Abigail that he does not believe in God, she tells him that it doesn't matter because God believes in him - that is a truly empowering message.     <br /> <br />There is an intriguing philosophical undercurrent to this novel that applies both eloquently and meaningfully to the human condition.  The Stand is modern literature, a direct descendant of such epics as The Iliad and The Odyssey, and you will learn something about yourself when you read this masterpiece of contemporary literature.	2004-11-16
457361:US	53016962	RE1FQPB3LTDFQ	0451459539	950963119	Thief of Lives (Noble Dead)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A dhampir's job is never done	Any list of the best writers of vampire novels working today must include the dynamic duo of Barb & J. C. Hendee.  Their first collaborative effort gave the world Dhampir, a truly engaging vampire tale set in a rich atmosphere suggestive of mediaeval times.  It was there that we first met Magiere, the acclaimed vampire hunter; her half-human, half-elf partner Leesil; and Leesil's extraordinary dog Chap.  Magiere and Leesil used to be con artists, staging vampire kills to rob superstitious villagers of their collective wealth, but Magiere grew tired of the game and the guilt that came with it, choosing to settle down in the town of Miiska and run a tavern.  As luck would have it, though, Miiska was the home of three very real vampires.  The game had become real, and Magiere, Leesil, and Chap endured great pains as they sought to rid the city of its undead killers.  Magiere struggled most of all with the newly-acquired knowledge that she was a dhampir who could, she feared, kill Leesil unintentionally when she needed blood to survive a life-threatening injury.<br /><br />Thief of Lives begins right where Dhampir left off.  The vampire threat in Miiska has been dealt with, although one of the vampires is unaccounted for.  Magiere's hope that her vampire-hunting days are over is soon dashed when a letter arrives from Bela - it seems the metropolis is dealing with a vampire menace of its own, and a councilman's daughter is the latest victim of a truly vicious attacker.  A certain little matter of a burned warehouse in Miiska and the economic impact it has wrought on the town leaves Magiere little choice but to reluctantly head to Bela.  By the time she arrives, she has already had to survive one attack on her life.  Awaiting her and Leesil is a blast from the past - good old Ratboy.  Now freed from the grip of his creator, Ratboy has cleaned himself up pretty impressively and taken on the airs of a nobleman of sorts, creating his own special minions to protect him and, in the case of the tempestuous Sapphire, arouse his ardor.  I had my doubts that the Ratboy we met in Dhampir would prove a worthy opponent for Magiere and Leesil in this novel, but the Handees did a great job redefining him.<br /><br />The vampire hunting action is just as exciting as it was in Dhampir, but Thief of Lives adds a new mixture of potentially noxious potions to the pot.  Magiere and Leesil are forced to come to grips with their emotionally troubling pasts, and questions are answered that neither partner ever dared ask before.  New foes - and one all too familiar one - stand in opposition to them, posing altogether new types of threats to those who would take their heads.  A startling revelation about the duo's uncommonly intelligent dog Chap is revealed, forcing Magiere and Leesil to reevaluate their own history together.  As coincidences begin to add up, it eventually becomes clear to our heroes that something fishy is going on in Bela; it's as if someone is playing with them, manipulating their every encounter with their foes.  Running around in the shadows is Welstiel Massing, Magiere's mysterious \\"benefactor\\" from the earlier novel.  You had to wonder what this guy was really up to; Thief of Lives begins to give the reader some answers.  Did I also mention that an elfin assassin has come to Bela to deal with Leesil as a traitor to his people?<br /><br />With so much going on, Thief of Lives gives the reader an even more immersive story than that of Dhampir.  You get plenty of plot and subplot for your money, and the increasingly complex characters are explored much more deeply, as we see them forced to deal with the discomfort of painful memories.  By the time all is said and done, Magiere and Leesil have begun to forge an entirely new type of relationship.<br /><br />Readers will be thrilled to know that the story of Magiere and Leesil does not end here.  A new and unexpected quest is revealed at novel's end, and some intriguing questions - such asthe actual fate of Leesil's elfin mother - jump to the forefront.  Clearly, there is fertile ground in which to plant the seeds of a third exciting novel in this uncommonly compelling series, and I will be one of many readers anxiously awaiting its publication.ns - such as the actual fate of Leesil's elfin mother - jump to the forefront.  Clearly, there is fertile ground in which to plant the seeds of a third exciting novel in this uncommonly compelling series, and I will be one of many readers anxiously awaiting its publication.	2004-11-13
464128:US	53016962	RZVPZ7J8IWYM6	0441011470	91484051	Burden of Proof (A Paul Sinclair Novel)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Another tour de force of legalistic s-f from Hemry	With Burden of Proof, the follow-up novel to A Just Determination, John G. Hemry cements his position as the best writer of legalistic military science fiction working today.  Drawing on his own Naval career, Hemry brings the world of the United States Space Navy of 2100 to vivid life, populating it with some of the most human, realistic, vibrant characters I've ever been introduced to.  Paul Sinclair, recently promoted from Ensign to Lieutenant Junior Grade, is a remarkable hero.  Committed and hard-working, he cares only about doing his job to the best of his ability and he constantly chides himself for his own small mistakes.  While he struggles to live up to the expectations of some of his senior officers, he is on the best of terms with most of his fellow junior officers and the ranks of enlisted men and women, actively seeking the advice of those around him and always acting in the most thoughtful, ethical of ways.<br /><br />Things are going pretty well for Paul.  His relationship with Jen Shen remains strong, even though she now serves on a different ship, and he has finally witnessed a return to normalcy after his critical involvement in the court-martial trial of his previous captain.  Unfortunately for Paul, that two-week legal training course he took early in his career is about to come back and bite him once again.<br /><br />I love the opening of this novel, as it features the disruption of a test firing mission by protestors.  In a remarkable scene, Greenspacers fly in and launch themselves in to the target zone in individual pods, forcing Sinclair's ship, the Michaelson, to pick them up one by one and take them back to port.  Soon thereafter, most unexpectedly, an explosion rocks the ship and takes out most of Forward Engineering.  With the chief engineer missing in action and the fire suppression system not working, Sinclair takes it upon himself to lead the dangerous fire-fighting mission in to the affected area.  It soon becomes clear that Chief Asher died in the explosion, and an investigation concludes that Asher caused the disaster by working on a critical piece of equipment alone - a clear violation of Navy policy.  The man in charge of that investigation just so happens to be the father of Jen Shen, a man who has already made it clear that he finds Sinclair unworthy of his daughter's affection.  The official report actually blames Paul - indirectly - for the tragedy, but the most galling thing of all is the awarding of a medal to Lieutenant Silver, the new replacement for Paul's best buddy on the ship.  Anyone with eyes can see that Silver gets by on his personal charm alone while foisting all of his work on his subordinates (including Sinclair), and Silver was particularly useless at the time of the explosion.<br /><br />Soon, information reaches Paul's ears that casts the official report's conclusions in doubt, and Sinclair is anxious to clear the name of Chief Asher and see that justice is done.  The focus of attention quickly becomes Lieutenant Silver, putting Sinclair in a tough position.  If he recommends court-martial proceedings against Silver based on his growing evidence, some will question whether he is trying to make Silver the scapegoat in order to deflect the doubts cast upon his own performance.  There's another tiny little matter to consider, as well - Lieutenant Silver just happens to be the son of a powerful vice admiral.  Once again, Sinclair is forced to make a tough choice that could threaten his reputation and Naval career - not to mention his relationship with Jen Shen, as her father will of course be called to testify for the defense.<br /><br />The case against Silver is far from a slam-dunk because virtually all of the evidence is circumstantial.  Clearly, though, that evidence points to Silver's wrongdoing.  As in A Just Determination, the climax of the novel plays out in a military courtroom.  It is here that Hemry's incredible skills at characterization really come to the fore, as this is by no means a boring courtroom drama.<br /><br />Hemry has done the impossible and actually produced a novel more exciting, more engrossing, and more impressive than A Just Determination.  I'm quickly coming to the conclusion that Hemry is the best science fiction writer working today.  No other author manages to hook me mind, body, and soul from the very first page, and no other author creates characters who become such an integral part of my life.  The first hundred pages are quite telling, as Hemry spends all of that initial time describing Sinclair's performance on the job and his interaction with friends and fellow officers.  Only when the reader is firmly grounded in Sinclair's character and the nature of life aboard a Space Navy vessel does the central action of the novel, namely the explosion, take place.  It's a picture perfect approach to making this legalistic science fiction thriller such an engrossing, addictive reading experience.y come to the fore, as this is by no means a boring courtroom drama.   <br /> <br />Hemry has done the impossible and actually produced a novel more exciting, more engrossing, and more impressive than A Just Determination.  I'm quickly coming to the conclusion that Hemry is the best science fiction writer working today.  No other author manages to hook me mind, body, and soul from the very first page, and no other author creates characters who become such an integral part of my life.  The first hundred pages are quite telling, as Hemry spends all of that initial time describing Sinclair's performance on the job and his interaction with friends and fellow officers.  Only when the reader is firmly grounded in Sinclair's character and the nature of life aboard a Space Navy vessel does the central action of the novel, namely the explosion, take place.  It's a picture perfect approach to making this legalistic science fiction thriller such an engrossing, addictive reading experience.	2004-11-07
470411:US	53016962	R2LA6NUCLQYT4S	1590592999	806798525	Internet Babylon: Secrets, Scandals, and Shocks on the Information Superhighway	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A wild, exciting ride through the underbelly of the Internet	I spend basically every waking hour online, and I have seen all kinds of crazy things on the Web over the years, yet I was amazed by some of the incredible things author Greg Holden describes in Internet Babylon.  This guy has gone where many fear to tread, digging up the goods on some of the Internet's most questionable, fascinating, oftentimes disturbing oddities.  He has put all of this knowledge to a higher purpose, using it to describe the all-pervasive social change the Internet has wrought.  Along with all the incredible things I somehow missed over the last few years, Holden brought to mind a number of wonderful yet somehow forgotten memories (e.g., All Your Base Are Belong To Us).  Then there's all the great stuff that, like so much on the Internet, no longer exists but which provided tons of laughs at the time (e.g., Evil Bert).  And I never tire of the great web creations that keep on giving, such as the phenomenal Star Wars Kid web sites.<br /><br />Unlike most of us, Holden didn't just wander willy-nilly all over the Internet - well, maybe he did, but he put together a well-organized book that breaks his subject down into six parts spread across twenty chapters.  First up is The Rich and (In)famous.  Here you can read all about the online doings of celebrities, serial killers, has-beens and wannabes.  Holden will lead you to the Partridge Family Temple, introduce you to the unique musical stylings of Star Trek actors, and point you to refreshers on Manson Family Values.<br /><br />Next up is The Afterlife.  On the Internet, nothing truly dies.  You can explore the mysterious deaths of Elvis and other celebrities, become a knowledgeable amateur sleuth hot on the trail of Jack the Ripper, the Zodiac killer, and other inhuman monsters, help look for ghosts via webcam in haunted buildings, and even watch a body decompose inside a coffin - actually, that last idea fell through, but it's sure to happen eventually.  In case you want to get religion before you take your own one step beyond, the Internet puts a wide variety of \\"religions\\" at your fingertips.  Of course, with the good comes the bad, and the Internet does, unfortunately, have a dark underbelly of criminality and evil; in the section Bad Boys and Naughty Girls, Holden gives you the scoop on famous hackers and their exploits, viruses and their creators, and the cretins who curse us all with unwanted spam.  He basically takes you on a guided tour of the dark side of the World Wide Web.<br /><br />As we all know, the Internet has revolutionized politics, and Holden devotes three fascinating chapters to political intrigue, scandals, and government secrets online.  In the past, politicians could keep their perverted behavior secret from the public, but the Internet has changed all that - just ask Bill Clinton.  In this online age, rumors and scandals can be spread across the entire world in a matter of minutes, and Holden shows us how, long before Rather-gate, the Internet has at times shaped the content of traditional journalism (as well as supplying us with some of the funniest jokes and parodies known to man).<br /><br />Anyone who browses the Internet soon learns that there are people out there who will do anything to get attention, and those with some sort of self-styled mission will stop at nothing to get their points across.  This is the realm of flame wars, denial of service attacks, as well as really, really silly web sites you can't believe anyone would ever think of creating.  The unlikeliest of Internet heroes are honored in this section: the Amazing Mahir of \\"I Kiss You!!!!!\\" fame, the Star Wars Kid (one of my personal favorites), the man who invented the Smiley symbol, and many others.  It all wraps up with a look at Big (And Not So Big) Business.  Remember the Pets.com Sock Puppet, who enjoyed much more success than Pets.com ever did?  That's just one dot-com disaster story; here, you will learn about some of the worst Internet business plans ever put together.<br /><br />Believe me, I have only scratched the surface of the material covered in this book.  Internet Babylon is chock full of fascinating, oftentimes hilarious stories (and pictures) of the continually surprising \\"sites\\" and sounds the Internet has brought to life.  You'll learn a little bit about the creation and evolution of the Internet, but mostly you'll revel in all the crazy online manifestations Holden holds under the microscope.<br /><br />Let me close with a word of warning.  I know you'll want to take a gander at many of the sites Holden refers to throughout this book, so I just want to advise you to proceed carefully - as this fascinating book proves, you can find absolutely anything out there online, and some of it ain't pretty.ns ever put together. <br /> <br />Believe me, I have only scratched the surface of the material covered in this book.  Internet Babylon is chock full of fascinating, oftentimes hilarious stories (and pictures) of the continually surprising \\"sites\\" and sounds the Internet has brought to life.  You'll learn a little bit about the creation and evolution of the Internet, but mostly you'll revel in all the crazy online manifestations Holden holds under the microscope.   <br /> <br />Let me close with a word of warning.  I know you'll want to take a gander at many of the sites Holden refers to throughout this book, so I just want to advise you to proceed carefully - as this fascinating book proves, you can find absolutely anything out there online, and some of it ain't pretty.	2004-11-01
470806:US	53016962	RZ02ANG60DUUY	0595317626	177693672	Moon Tide Monterey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An inspiring story of self-discovery and animal preservation	Moon Tide Monterey works wonderfully on two different levels: first, as the story of one young lady's struggle to move out from under the overbearing thumb of a father intent on plotting her future, and second, as a story emphasizing the importance of the work being done to rescue and protect marine mammals suffering at the hands of man.  I would have liked a little more plot development in terms of one particular subplot, but this is only one small complaint pertaining to this very impressive novel (and, it may well be that I just didn't pick up on this plot element when it was first brought to light).<br /><br />It is the summer following Cami Trevaller's graduation from high school, and she is unsure of her future plans.  Her well-to-do father, though, has long made his own plans for his daughter: like her older sister, she will matriculate at Stanford, go on to Harvard Business School, and return to help run the family business.  Walking along the beach one day, Cami hears and finally locates a young, starving seal pup and, with the help of a volunteer from The Marine Mammal Center, helps save \\"Happy's\\" life.  It is a wonderful experience for her, and she soon begins volunteering at the Center herself; at the same time, she begins to develop a relationship with Sky, a young marine biology intern working there.  Cami finds her volunteer work exceedingly rewarding; for the first time in her life, she feels she is doing something inherently good and important.  Sadly, all animals cannot be saved - foremost among these are an increasing number of seals shot multiple times in the local environs of Monterey Bay.  Fishermen have been known to shoot seals interfering with their fishing, but these seals have been killed with automatic weapons.  Cami, Sky, and a couple more volunteers take it upon themselves to find those responsible for the crime.  Little do they know that the men in question are guilty of far more than mere possession and use of automatic weapons, and this places Cami in great danger.<br /><br />All the while that Cami is working at The Marine Mammal Center, she is growing farther apart from her overbearing father, who disapproves of her priority choices, and growing closer to Sky.  Complicating these relational equations is the fact that Cami has been hurt before.  I think that this is the one element of the story that could have used further development; for my part, its true significance did not sink in until the latter stages of the novel.  The interpersonal aspects of the story work very well, though, particularly those between overprotective father and independent-minded daughter; in addition, the budding relationship between Cami and Sky is handled in an effectively subtle manner.<br /><br />For me, though, the descriptions of animal rescues form the most exciting and memorable aspects of the novel.  Any animal lover cannot but be inspired by the work of The Marine Mammal Center and its group of volunteers who put the welfare of the area's sea lions, seals, and other marine animals above materialistic pursuits and, in many ways, their own well-being.  The description of a live rescue at sea (a very restless sea) is particularly awe-inspiring.  As a former marine mammal rescue volunteer himself, Barry Johnson is able to describe this kind of work quite realistically and, in so doing, convey the commitment and unheralded heroism of those who dedicate their lives to the rescue of animals suffering at the hands of human beings.  More importantly, he is able to convey the importance of such work to those fortunate enough to read and enjoy Moon Tide Monterey.nd this places Cami in great danger. <br /> <br />All the while that Cami is working at The Marine Mammal Center, she is growing farther apart from her overbearing father, who disapproves of her priority choices, and growing closer to Sky.  Complicating these relational equations is the fact that Cami has been hurt before.  I think that this is the one element of the story that could have used further development; for my part, its true significance did not sink in until the latter stages of the novel.  The interpersonal aspects of the story work very well, though, particularly those between overprotective father and independent-minded daughter; in addition, the budding relationship between Cami and Sky is handled in an effectively subtle manner. <br /> <br />For me, though, the descriptions of animal rescues form the most exciting and memorable aspects of the novel.  Any animal lover cannot but be inspired by the work of The Marine Mammal Center and its group of volunteers who put the welfare of the area's sea lions, seals, and other marine animals above materialistic pursuits and, in many ways, their own well-being.  The description of a live rescue at sea (a very restless sea) is particularly awe-inspiring.  As a former marine mammal rescue volunteer himself, Barry Johnson is able to describe this kind of work quite realistically and, in so doing, convey the commitment and unheralded heroism of those who dedicate their lives to the rescue of animals suffering at the hands of human beings.  More importantly, he is able to convey the importance of such work to those fortunate enough to read and enjoy Moon Tide Monterey.	2004-11-01
472747:US	53016962	RFVDGHO6TJTNQ	0743424425	966329377	The Shining	Books	5	293	309	N	N	Remains one of King's most powerful, frightening novels	Twenty-seven years after its publication, The Shining remains a visceral, gripping read that showcases Stephen King's unfathomable powers to hypnotize and terrify readers, a power King had in abundance in the early stages of his career.  Coming on the heels of Carrie and 'Salem's Lot, The Shining truly established King as a modern master of horror and an unequaled purveyor of a literary mirror into pop culture.  If you've only seen the original movie starring Jack Nicholson, you really owe it to yourself to read the novel; Stanley Kubrick made a fine and scary movie, but he did not capture the essence of King's story, and his dramatization followed a different path than what you find in the original vision brought to life through the words of King.  The more recent miniseries was more faithful to the novel, but it doesn't take an Einstein to figure out that a made-for-TV dramatization is limited in terms of what it can get away with in a number of important areas.  Simply put, The Shining stands just behind Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House as one of the best \\"haunted house\\" novels ever written.<br /><br />The plot should be quite familiar to one and all by this point.  The Torrance family embarks on a months-long retreat into complete isolation when Jack Torrance signs on to be the winter custodian of the Overlook Hotel in Colorado.  Jack takes some personal demons with him to a hotel chock-full of malevolent, ghostly spirits; he is a recovering alcoholic who, in the last couple of years, lost his job and broke his little boy's arm in a state of drunken fury.  He thinks the months alone with his wife and son will allow him to find peace - and to finally finish the play he has been working on.  His long-suffering wife has some misgivings, but the only person really clued into the dreadful possibilities is his son Danny.  Danny has \\"the shine,\\" a gift which allows him to see and know things he cannot possibly know; it is a powerful gift which the Overlook (which really is an entity unto itself) jealously desires for itself.<br /><br />As the days pass, the Overlook exerts more and more of an influence on Jack, exploiting his weaknesses, exacerbating his paranoia and persecution complex, and basically turning him into a murderous new tool at the hotel's disposal.  Danny sees what is happening, although he cannot really understand much of it given his very young age.  He can certainly understand the terror of the Overlook, however, as he sees images of the hotel's murderous past and very dark near future in a number of unsettling scenes interspersed throughout the novel.  This is a harrowing tale of survival against incredible odds of a supernatural nature, and King brings every nuance of the story to vivid life, capturing perfectly the internalization and externalization of fear among exceedingly real, believable characters that the reader gets to know very well indeed.  As has always been the case with Stephen King, it is his incomparable powers of characterization that make the supernatural elements of his story work so amazingly well.  You can't help but be emotionally committed to these characters.<br /><br />The Shining really isn't one of my all-time favorite Stephen King novels, but it is exceedingly well crafted and features some of the most harrowing scenes to be found in King's immense body of work.  Even though I had read the novel before and was quite familiar with the story in both its literary and cinematic manifestations, I was completely caught up in the story as I re-read it - to the point that I found myself flipping the pages faster than I normally do for a novel completely new to me.  When you talk about the seminal works of modern horror, you have to talk about The Shining - it's just that good a read.eally is an entity unto itself) jealously desires for itself.      As the days pass, the Overlook exerts more and more of an influence on Jack, exploiting his weaknesses, exacerbating his paranoia and persecution complex, and basically turning him into a murderous new tool at the hotel's disposal.  Danny sees what is happening, although he cannot really understand much of it given his very young age.  He can certainly understand the terror of the Overlook, however, as he sees images of the hotel's murderous past and very dark near future in a number of unsettling scenes interspersed throughout the novel.  This is a harrowing tale of survival against incredible odds of a supernatural nature, and King brings every nuance of the story to vivid life, capturing perfectly the internalization and externalization of fear among exceedingly real, believable characters that the reader gets to know very well indeed.  As has always been the case with Stephen King, it is his incomparable powers of characterization that make the supernatural elements of his story work so amazingly well.  You can't help but be emotionally committed to these characters.    The Shining really isn't one of my all-time favorite Stephen King novels, but it is exceedingly well crafted and features some of the most harrowing scenes to be found in King's immense body of work.  Even though I had read the novel before and was quite familiar with the story in both its literary and cinematic manifestations, I was completely caught up in the story as I re-read it - to the point that I found myself flipping the pages faster than I normally do for a novel completely new to me.  When you talk about the seminal works of modern horror, you have to talk about The Shining - it's just that good a read.	2004-10-30
472907:US	53016962	R38TOUKSH4VS4C	0595290523	635121087	A Corporal's War: World War II Adventures of a Royal Engineer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A look at war through a deeply personal, fascinating window	A Corporal's War: World War II Adventures of a Royal Engineer is not only a deeply personal and wonderful account of one young British soldier's wartime experience, it is also an illuminating look at an overlooked theatre of the war.  According to the author, Pauline Hayton, this book began as a family memoir based on the memories of her father, Corporal Norman Wickman.  Then, in addition to information from personal interviews, she began researching the historical events of the war.  Despite the fact that she, by her own admission, did not know the difference between bombing and shelling when she started this project, she has succeeded in writing an illuminating account steeped in both the history and personal recollections of her father's experience.  Technically, A Corporal's War is historical fiction, but the events and experiences recounted in these pages really tell her father's story.<br /><br />Norman Wickman was an ordinary young man who, in 1940, signed up for a six-month stint in the army in order to better provide for his family - his wife Ivy and his little girl Joan.  At the time, Chamberlain had supposedly achieved \\"peace in our time\\" with the Germans, but it was only a few months later than Hitler invaded Poland and Britain declared war.  Norman (and, having read this account, I feel as if I know the man well enough to call him by his first name) was a Royal Engineer, but he experienced the frightful bombing raids on England before shipping out to France.  He saw his first enemy action in the days of the British retreat to the shores of Dunkirk.  In the chaos of those days, he played an integral part in blowing up bridges to slow down the German advance, and he got his first combat experience (and killed his first enemy soldier) defending a strategic hill while thousands more of his fellow soldiers found the time they needed to make it to the beaches.  We are all familiar with the significance of Dunkirk, but the story of Norman's Dunkirk experience brings the drama to life in a way no history book ever could.  Not only did Norman make it to the beaches and survive to fight another day, he was instrumental in maintaining the harbor's eastern mole, the primary pickup point for his comrades in arms.<br /><br />The rest of the story paints a vivid portrait of a part of the war virtually ignored in the history books.  Norman and his buddies were sent to India, and they would remain in the southwest Asian theater for four long years.  As a Royal Engineer, a lot of Norman's duty involved transporting water and other supplies, and parts of the stay were somewhat idyllic - pictures shows in Bombay, time spent enjoying the sands and sea, and even - for Norman - the forging of a personal friendship with a wealthy Indian citizen.  Of course, life was no bed of roses - there was unbearable heat, pests and snakes to deal with, tensions revolving around the efforts of India to win its independence from Britain, and the miseries resulting from the totality of the war.  A vast explosion aboard a vessel docked in Bombay virtually destroyed the entire harbor, and we learn how Norman and other soldiers like him dealt with the cleanup and began rebuilding what had been lost.  One of the more poignant parts of Norman's experience revolves around a local hospital.  One can certainly understand the development of Norman's hatred for the Japanese soldiers after reading about the sadistic crimes they perpetrated on the nurses at this hospital.<br /><br />Military service didn't get any easier, as Norman and his Company ended up serving in Burma under some of the worst conditions imaginable - unbearable heat, thick jungles, monsoons that turned roads into muddy quagmires, and - of course - the enemy.  The men played an important role in retaking Burmese territory from the Japanese and building the all-important Ledo Road, over which necessary supplies were transported to the Chinese army.  Here, Wickman saw combat action against the Japanese, and he witnessed many atrocities committed by the enemy.  He also proved himself a true hero on numerous occasions - as humble as he was brave.  I was fascinated by the description of the India and Burma campaign, largely because I basically knew nothing about this aspect of the war.  Norman's observations and opinions about foreign soldiers such as the Americans and the Gurkhins were also of great interest to me.<br /><br />Hayton has a very effective writing style.  Her descriptions of military actions and strategies, complemented by maps and photographs, paint a vivid picture anyone can understand, she never gets bogged down in minutiae, and the narrative flows like a swift yet peaceful river, never wandering too far afield from Norman's personal experiences.  In some ways, Norman is a wide-eyed tourist soaking in the sights of these exotic lands and transferring his wonder into our own hearts and minds.  His stories about the different kinds of people he interacted with are insightful and informative; his ideas, fears, and emotional reactions to the realities of war gives you a vivid picture of the complete soldier experience; his bitter feelings for the Japanese soldiers become completely understandable after we see the things he saw; and his descriptions of actual combat are invaluable to one's understanding of the bravery and heroism of young men who left their families behind and accomplished almost unbelievable things on behalf of their countries.<br /><br />This may be a fictionalized biography, but it is definitely one of the best wartime accounts I've read in a long time.  This isn't what you would call a gritty wartime memoir, though.  The focus here is truly on the men who served, their mental and emotional reactions to the horrors they encountered, the emotional pain and homesickness of men who just wanted to do their duty, win the bloody war, and get home to their families.  I was totally captivated by Norman's story, and his homecoming, after four years of separation from his wife and little girl, left me with a lump in my throat and a renewed admiration for all brave yet unheralded young soldiers then and now.ainst the Japanese, and he witnessed many atrocities committed by the enemy.  He also proved himself a true hero on numerous occasions - as humble as he was brave.  I was fascinated by the description of the India and Burma campaign, largely because I basically knew nothing about this aspect of the war.  Norman's observations and opinions about foreign soldiers such as the Americans and the Gurkhins were also of great interest to me.   <br /> <br />Hayton has a very effective writing style.  Her descriptions of military actions and strategies, complemented by maps and photographs, paint a vivid picture anyone can understand, she never gets bogged down in minutiae, and the narrative flows like a swift yet peaceful river, never wandering too far afield from Norman's personal experiences.  In some ways, Norman is a wide-eyed tourist soaking in the sights of these exotic lands and transferring his wonder into our own hearts and minds.  His stories about the different kinds of people he interacted with are insightful and informative; his ideas, fears, and emotional reactions to the realities of war gives you a vivid picture of the complete soldier experience; his bitter feelings for the Japanese soldiers become completely understandable after we see the things he saw; and his descriptions of actual combat are invaluable to one's understanding of the bravery and heroism of young men who left their families behind and accomplished almost unbelievable things on behalf of their countries.   <br /> <br />This may be a fictionalized biography, but it is definitely one of the best wartime accounts I've read in a long time.  This isn't what you would call a gritty wartime memoir, though.  The focus here is truly on the men who served, their mental and emotional reactions to the horrors they encountered, the emotional pain and homesickness of men who just wanted to do their duty, win the bloody war, and get home to their families.  I was totally captivated by Norman's story, andhis homecoming, after four years of separation from his wife and little girl, left me with a lump in my throat and a renewed admiration for all brave yet unheralded young soldiers then and now.	2004-10-30
476833:US	53016962	R4A3PZ3D18VXA	0316058211	785107079	The Cat Who Came for Christmas	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A perfectly delightful book on the joys of feline felicity	Let's clear up any possible confusion from the very beginning: while The Cat Who Came for Christmas did indeed come for Christmas, this is in no way a Christmas book.  That's important because this book is completely delightful, and I don't want anyone who comes across it in July to think he needs to wait five months before he can read it.  Animal lovers, especially cat lovers, will find this book absolutely delightful, and those readers who are so unfortunate as to have never had the privilege of being owned by an animal will get a moving picture of the kind of human-animal bond the rest of us are always going on about.  Indeed, the book closes with the suggestion that pet-less owners would do well to go down to their local animal shelter and find a faithful friend for themselves.<br /><br />We first meet the aforementioned cat on a snowy Christmas Eve in New York.  Cleveland Amory, the founder of The Fund for Animals, helps rescue a poor feline from the streets of the city and takes him home - temporarily - to care for him until a suitable home is found.  Amory is, by his own admission, a dog person, but he quickly falls in love with this poor young cat who has obviously suffered much in his young life: he is terribly thin, his body bears several wounds, his back is obviously injured, he is filthy, and he may well have never known the affection of another soul.  Someone has reportedly thrown things at him and hit him in an effort to run him off, so his emergency rescue is a necessity.  Underneath all of the dirt, Amory finds a beautiful white cat with magical eyes and a spirit that wins Amory over from the start.  He is so beguiled by the little guy that he talks a prospective new owner out of adopting him the very next morning.<br /><br />The book, as it unfolds, is the story of this special cat and the human he owns over the course of their first year together.  Amory describes many of the conversations he has with his lovable but stubborn new friend, expounds greatly upon matters of cat psychology that all cat lovers will immediately recognize, and basically delivers a truly heart-warming story about two curmudgeons, one human and one feline, who magically find each other and develop a deep and lasting friendship.  You'll read about the cat's behavior toward new people (including the likes of celebrities such as Walter Cronkite and Cary Grant), other animals, travel, veterinarians, and basically life in general.  The stories of Amory's behavioral modification techniques and feline communication skills are as insightful as they are funny and do nothing to dispel the notion that cats are very stubborn little creatures.  The chapters on the cat's domestic and foreign policies are especially instructive and endearing.<br /><br />Amory is a wonderfully witty storyteller.  Some may complain that he sometimes goes off on tangents, but these are most instructive as they invariably relate to early efforts by The Fund for Animals to protect those creatures being brutally exploited by human beings (e.g., whales and baby seals); I must say I don't approve of some of the techniques the group employs, but certainly the group's heart was in the right place.  Amidst all of the cat-related humor, Amory is wont to slip in some wonderfully subtle little jokes and literary references, and I would argue one learns as much about human nature as feline nature over the course of the book.<br /><br />You might notice I have refrained from giving the cat's name; this is intentional on my part.  A cat's name is very important, and the author devotes many pages to the naming process of this cat in particular, so I would be remiss to simply blurt the name out here.unds greatly upon matters of cat psychology that all cat lovers will immediately recognize, and basically delivers a truly heart-warming story about two curmudgeons, one human and one feline, who magically find each other and develop a deep and lasting friendship.  You'll read about the cat's behavior toward new people (including the likes of celebrities such as Walter Cronkite and Cary Grant), other animals, travel, veterinarians, and basically life in general.  The stories of Amory's behavioral modification techniques and feline communication skills are as insightful as they are funny and do nothing to dispel the notion that cats are very stubborn little creatures.  The chapters on the cat's domestic and foreign policies are especially instructive and endearing.   <br /> <br />Amory is a wonderfully witty storyteller.  Some may complain that he sometimes goes off on tangents, but these are most instructive as they invariably relate to early efforts by The Fund for Animals to protect those creatures being brutally exploited by human beings (e.g., whales and baby seals); I must say I don't approve of some of the techniques the group employs, but certainly the group's heart was in the right place.  Amidst all of the cat-related humor, Amory is wont to slip in some wonderfully subtle little jokes and literary references, and I would argue one learns as much about human nature as feline nature over the course of the book.   <br /> <br />You might notice I have refrained from giving the cat's name; this is intentional on my part.  A cat's name is very important, and the author devotes many pages to the naming process of this cat in particular, so I would be remiss to simply blurt the name out here.	2004-10-26
480033:US	53016962	R3SPRY8MNAH7QZ	0441011438	206622951	Sea Of Time	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An entertaining plunge into the depths of time travel	In Cretaceous Sea, Will Hubbell took us on a wild ride 65 million years back in time, to an era when dinosaurs ruled the world - until the K-T Event, of course, which we experienced in the company of Hubbell's characters.  That steep temporal plunge back into the Cretaceous Period looks like a small ripple in the Sea of Time compared to the experiences chronicled in this follow-up novel.  Cretaceous Sea was ostensibly about time travel, but Sea of Time really mines the depths of questions, possibilities, and repercussions the subject of time travel engenders.  We're with familiar characters as well, as the wonderful heroes from Cretaceous Sea are back - in one temporal form or another, anyway.  The heart and soul of the story is still to be found in Constance (Con) Greighton, who is also Con Clements.  At the end of the first novel, Con and Rick Clements, the paleontologist she fell in love with on Montana Island in 65,000,000 BC, settled down in 19th century Montana to live the life of Con's legendary ancestor - yes, Con became her own ancestor.<br /><br />Con was ready to forget all about time travel and live happily ever after - but this was not to be.  The mysterious futuristic man Sam, whose stolen time machine had transported Con back to the Cretaceous Period, shows up unexpectedly and tells Con she has been tricked into changing the course of history.  Suddenly, Con's husband is murdered and her son has died, and she is more than willing to do anything Sam wants - if he can bring Rick and Joey back to her.  Thus begins a series of time-skipping adventures that take Con centuries into the future to do Sam's bidding.  She assumes the person of a scientist whose work changes human history in some unknown major way, and she later travels farther into the future to see just what she has done.  Thirty-first century Earth as she finds it is a terrible place, where Sapes (Homo Sapiens) live lives of misery, hopelessness, and genetically engineered addiction, surviving only as the servants of a new and better breed of humans.  Blaming herself for the troubles of numerous future generations, Con is increasingly distraught.  Then she is visited by three future time travelers of the Home Perfectus species, and they explain to her that Sam has been using her not to \\"fix\\" history but to pervert and change it according to his own designs.  They want Con's help - but Con refuses to do anything until she is reunited with Rick.<br /><br />She gets her wish, but unfortunately this Rick comes from a time before he ever met Con or traveled back in time.  Suddenly transported to a poor and filthy thirty-first century world and forced to deal with a \\"crazy\\" woman who insists she is his wife, Rick is not the happiest of men.  To succeed in her new mission, Con must once again win the trust and, she hopes, the heart of the man she fell in love with 65 million years ago.  As strong a character as she is, she alone cannot possibly survive some of the challenges she faces here.<br /><br />The race to beat Sam at his own history-altering game is a strategic one that takes our heroes over diverse areas of the timestream, including the Jurassic Period of Earth's early history.  Like time travel, the novel can become a bit confusing at times.  First off, the fact that Con is her own ancestor supposedly gives her a special ability to alter time.  Then there are a few sudden shifts in temporal causality in which we suddenly see the Con of a different reality in front of our eyes.  In terms of the future, you have three species of humans competing for dominance, and in some of those future histories, at least one of the species has become extinct.  Con is even confronted with the fact that, thanks to the altering of the time flow, she was no longer ever born- her future past has been completely expunged from the space-time continuum.  There are some fascinating ideas espoused in this tale.  For instance, time - like a river - tends to be only momentarilydiverted by outside changes - it takes a significant stimulus to truly alter the future.  I also liked the argument that time travel in and of itself tends to weaken the stability of the timestream.<br /><br />While the entire book is filled with excitement, the ultimate scheme for foiling Sam's plans seems rather clumsy to me, and the ultimate turn of events can be seen from miles away by the reader.  Still, I loved this book.  With its heavy emphasis on the theoretical underpinnings and logic-defying nature of time travel, its multiple journeys across a number of millennia, its account of the heroes' struggles to survive in the most inhospitable of times and places (both past and future), and its rich and wonderfully complex main characters, Sea of Time makes for a gripping, entertaining read.omentarily diverted by outside changes - it takes a significant stimulus to truly alter the future.  I also liked the argument that time travel in and of itself tends to weaken the stability of the timestream.  <br /> <br />While the entire book is filled with excitement, the ultimate scheme for foiling Sam's plans seems rather clumsy to me, and the ultimate turn of events can be seen from miles away by the reader.  Still, I loved this book.  With its heavy emphasis on the theoretical underpinnings and logic-defying nature of time travel, its multiple journeys across a number of millennia, its account of the heroes' struggles to survive in the most inhospitable of times and places (both past and future), and its rich and wonderfully complex main characters, Sea of Time makes for a gripping, entertaining read.	2004-10-23
480696:US	53016962	R2PQTIY4JBQVG2	0441011284	54649364	Starship	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A stunning improvement over the first novel in the series	Kevin D. Randle is well-known as a leading figure (and prolific author) in ufology: spearheading the search for answers at Roswell, examining the case history of other reported UFO crashes, asking tough (and sometimes unpopular) questions about the alien abduction phenomenon, and generally examining UFO evidence in as large a context as possible.  I was surprised to discover his entry into the world of science fiction, but The Exploration Chronicles is proving to be an interesting series that differs wildly from my expectations.  Signals, the first novel, suffered from a number of flaws, especially in terms of characterization, but maintained my interest as it explored Earth's first contact with an intelligent race of aliens.  The ending was almost shockingly anticlimactic, and I figured Randle was saving his good stuff for the second novel.  Now we would finally get a good look at these elusive aliens - or so I thought.<br /><br />Randle surprised me, however, by taking an entirely new direction here in Starship; since his UFO research has dealt primarily with our reactions to contact with an alien intelligence, I expected that subject to be the continuing theme of this second novel.  Instead, Randle has done the opposite and cast humans in the role of an alien race seeking a new home on a new planet.  The heart of this novel lies in the social interaction and political continuity of life aboard the starship, and to my surprise Randle's exploration of social and psychological themes actually succeeds much better than his first novel's overreliance on science to the detriment of his characters.  The writing in this book is a significant improvement over that found in Signals, and I am actually quite excited about the future of this series.<br /><br />After a brief prologue featuring the two main characters from the original novel, Starship jumps more than two centuries into the future.  The Starship Alpha, called Home by its thousands of residents, is well on its way into deep space in search of a planet suitable for colonization.  The mission's main purpose is to ensure that, should disaster strike Earth, the human race would continue to survive.  The original colonists are long dead, replaced by their descendants who were borne into a mission they may not have wanted; none of them has ever been outside the spaceship itself.  Life onboard the ship is highly regulated and controlled; indeed, a futuristic breed of socialism keeps everything and everyone productively docile.  The residents have been bred, with the aid of genetic engineering, to look and act alike for the most part; each person has his assigned role in the society and does it without complaint.  Last names have even been dropped in favor of numbers indicating when each person was born in relation to the time of the ship's launch.  Oh, a few individuals have doubts and question the facts they are given by the computers, and a few even exhibit troublesome behavior, but such problematic residents are dealt with by those in security or the medical facilities.  Medication and special food additives are used to control the population and make them docile; those who cannot be controlled so easily simply disappear.  Everyone is content and committed to the ideals of the mission, never knowing that their lack of individuality is an act of manipulation by those in authority over them.<br /><br />The ship is still several decades away from its targeted New Home, but everything is about to change.  Blight has been detected in one of the agricultural pods, and the authorities are soon horrified to learn that the damage to the food supply is more severe than first thought and, most shocking of all, it is apparently an act of sabotage.  There is a conspiracy afoot that threatens to ruin the ship's mission and kill everyone on board.  A new Home must be discovered in the coming months if the people are to survive.  A suitable moon is found, but there are signs of intelligent life there already.  With the social structure on board the ship quickly crumbling into anarchy, the ship's authorities may have to ignore their prohibitions against interfering in the lives of an existing alien race.<br /><br />Individual interaction, social and political dealings, and the psychology of both man and society are explored rather deeply and impressively in Starship, as science takes a back seat in the storyline.  I did not think the author had it in him to succeed at this aspect of storytelling, since it was a real weakness in the first book of the series, but Kevin D. Randle has really surprised and impressed me with this second novel.  It's a remarkable turnaround that bodes very well indeed for The Exploration Chronicles.gent life there already.  With the social structure on board the ship quickly crumbling into anarchy, the ship's authorities may have to ignore their prohibitions against interfering in the lives of an existing alien race. <br /> <br />Individual interaction, social and political dealings, and the psychology of both man and society are explored rather deeply and impressively in Starship, as science takes a back seat in the storyline.  I did not think the author had it in him to succeed at this aspect of storytelling, since it was a real weakness in the first book of the series, but Kevin D. Randle has really surprised and impressed me with this second novel.  It's a remarkable turnaround that bodes very well indeed for The Exploration Chronicles.	2004-10-23
486889:US	53016962	R18PBXNF1WFX61	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	16	32	N	N	A devastating critique of liberal foreign policy	In Treason, Ann Coulter delivers a detailed, well-argued, devastating critique of liberalism (and thus the Democratic Party) from the 1940s to today.  While those on the left revile Ann Coulter and heap endless calumnies upon her, she not only says what she thinks, she brings along the goods to back her arguments up.  Lest anyone wonder why the Democrats have made Ann Coulter public enemy number one, this book provides the answer.  Coulter has burrowed beneath all of the masks to look upon the true face of liberalism, and now she is telling the world the bitter truths her enemies desperately seek to keep hidden from the American people.  Treason is not a book of extended essays tied tenuously together, nor is it a vehicle by which Ann Coulter attempts to continuously outdo herself with ruthlessly sharp witticisms - oh, she still gets plenty of her patented gibes in there, but this book is primarily a case-by-case examination of liberal foreign policy from the Cold War to the war on terrorism.  Most impressively, Coulter ties all of her findings together in a comprehensive analysis of liberal means and motives.  Are liberals just, despite good intentions, wrong all of the time, or is there something else going on to explain their track record?  None dare call it treason - until now.  I'm not sure I would go quite as far as Coulter does in her conclusions, but she surely does give one food for thought.<br /><br />\\"History is an endless process of liberal brainwashing.\\"  That is a central theme of this book.  Journalists, and then liberal academics, write the history books, and that is how liberals keep themselves viable in mainstream American society.  Forget what your history teachers told you about the Red scare.  Finally, and I can't begin to say how much this warms my heart, Ann Coulter sets the record straight on Joseph McCarthy and his zealous work to rid the national government of Soviet agents.  There is no longer any question that there were such agents high up in the governments of FDR and Truman, that the Rosenbergs (whom liberals still defend) were indeed Russian spies, and that Joseph McCarthy was right.  Ever heard of the Venona Project?  Probably not.  As we learned in 1995, though, it seems we were listening in on Soviet cables during the Cold War years, and those decoded messages prove that Soviet espionage was rife in the halls of the White House and State Department in the 1940s and 1950s.<br /><br />I wish I had the time and space to go through the entire chronology of liberal deceit lain out so clearly in these pages.  Coulter employs voluminous quotes from liberals throughout the decades to show their consistent pattern of coddling if not abating America's enemies.  She shows how liberals have continually undermined America's national security, sometimes secretly rooting for the likes of \\"Uncle Joe\\" Stalin and Ho Chi Minh (aka the George Washington of Vietnam, according to John Kerry).  The only time they support the use of force is when America has no national interest in the fight (e.g., Bosnia).  The Democrats were weak on defense long before Jimmy Carter came to office.  Democrats got us into Vietnam, and Republicans had to clean up the mess.  Coulter also makes the all-important point that the Democrats lost Vietnam in 1975 when the Democratic Congress revoked all aid whatsoever from our South Vietnamese allies and left them at the mercy of the northern communists.  Untold millions have died across the world from such Democratic policies.  But what about the success of the Cuban Missile Crisis?  The Soviets put nukes in Cuba after seeing JFK cowardly sacrifice brave Cuban nationals at the Bay of Pigs, and that great \\"victory\\" over Khrushchev saw America remove strategic nukes from Turkey.  We also know just how impressive that 1994 Clinton deal with North Korea turned out to be.<br /><br />Coulter makes it clear that Ronald Reagan won the Cold War.  Democrats opposed every foreign policy decision Reagan made, branding him a lunatic who would bring about a nuclear war.  They thought (if not hoped) the Soviet Union was impregnable.  When Reagan won the Cold War, he made a lie of Democratic foreign policy, sending the liberals into a tailspin.  They still won't give Reagan credit, arguing he was just lucky or that Gorbachev deserves the credit, but we all know the truth.<br /><br />When Coulter gets up to the war on terrorism, she has already given us all the information we need to understand Democratic opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan - it finally makes sense, based on the pattern she has established so very clearly.  The Democrats crucify Bush for not doing enough, then turn around and decry ever foreign policy decision he makes.  At this point, Coulter's trademark righteous indignation takes over, and she unleashes the kind of scathing attack that liberals despise and even some conservatives feel uncomfortable with.  I think she goes a little too far sometimes, but boy does she make her points as clear as can be.  Her most entertaining invective is reserved for today's leftist Hollywood activists, and I for one reveled in her scathing attack on the likes of Michael Moore and Sean Penn.<br /><br />The closing chapter, Why They Hate Us, marks a return to the discerning reason that characterizes the book as a whole.  Coulter leaves no doubt that she finds the Democrats a party of traitors.  This is an overstatement that goes a little too far.  I don't think the majority of liberals are traitors or even unpatriotic - even though their policies oftentimes serve the interests of the enemy.  In a way, it's unfortunate that Ann Coulter has earned herself such a divisive reputation.  Beneath the trademark Coulter vitriol lies a discerning, comprehensive critique of liberal foreign policy.  It's a pity that this information will not reach a wider audience, as Coulter has constrained herself to preaching only to the choir.on Reagan made, branding him a lunatic who would bring about a nuclear war.  They thought (if not hoped) the Soviet Union was impregnable.  When Reagan won the Cold War, he made a lie of Democratic foreign policy, sending the liberals into a tailspin.  They still won't give Reagan credit, arguing he was just lucky or that Gorbachev deserves the credit, but we all know the truth.   <br /> <br />When Coulter gets up to the war on terrorism, she has already given us all the information we need to understand Democratic opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan - it finally makes sense, based on the pattern she has established so very clearly.  The Democrats crucify Bush for not doing enough, then turn around and decry ever foreign policy decision he makes.  At this point, Coulter's trademark righteous indignation takes over, and she unleashes the kind of scathing attack that liberals despise and even some conservatives feel uncomfortable with.  I think she goes a little too far sometimes, but boy does she make her points as clear as can be.  Her most entertaining invective is reserved for today's leftist Hollywood activists, and I for one reveled in her scathing attack on the likes of Michael Moore and Sean Penn.   <br /> <br />The closing chapter, Why They Hate Us, marks a return to the discerning reason that characterizes the book as a whole.  Coulter leaves no doubt that she finds the Democrats a party of traitors.  This is an overstatement that goes a little too far.  I don't think the majority of liberals are traitors or even unpatriotic - even though their policies oftentimes serve the interests of the enemy.  In a way, it's unfortunate that Ann Coulter has earned herself such a divisive reputation.  Beneath the trademark Coulter vitriol lies a discerning, comprehensive critique of liberal foreign policy.  It's a pity that this information will not reach a wider audience, as Coulter has constrained herself to preaching only to the choir.	2004-10-17
488150:US	53016962	RC9QL2FDZZN8K	1586607685	879049054	Marduk's Tablet: What If the Legend Is True?	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A thrilling historical mystery of great inspirational power	Marduk's Tablet is an engaging novel of suspense built upon a foundation of archaeological discovery, but author T.L. Higley has a much grander purpose than mere entertainment behind her writing.  The book is billed as fiction for the mind and soul, and Higley seeks to challenge readers with the spiritual truths of God.  This spiritual depth actually adds to the story, in my opinion, but some readers may blanch at the sometimes overtly Christian message that lies at the heart of the novel.  In one sense, I think readers should be aware of this facet of the story going in, but in a larger sense those who are turned off by Christianity or who are rarely exposed to the tenets of Christian faith are those who might benefit the most from this novel and should not be turned away at the gates.  In any case, the religious aspect of the writing certainly takes nothing away from an exciting, action-packed story of historical mystery and modern-day suspense.<br /><br />Marduk was one of the primary gods of ancient Babylon, and a recently discovered Marduk-related tablet is suspected of containing secrets of great healing power.  31-year-old graduate student Emilie Nazarro has a close association with the tablet; indeed, her father discovered it and became obsessed with deciphering its ancient writings - until he disappeared with the tablet when Emilie was 13 years old.  His body had been found the following week, but the tablet had not been seen again - until now.  To Emilie's great surprise, an associate of her father, Thomas Fitzwater, not only has the tablet, he wishes to hire Emilie to translate it for him.  While she views the tablet as the reason for her father's ignominious death and worries about finishing her graduate studies, Fitzwater will not take no for an answer, telling Emilie that he is dying and needs to see if Marduk's tablet can somehow heal him - Emilie, he says, is the only person he feels he can trust.  In short order, Emilie arrives at a dig site in Ashkelon, Israel, to begin working on the translation of Marduk's tablet.  Little does she know that others plan on using her to steal the tablet out from under the noses of the Israel Antiquities Authority.  Nervous and unsure of herself by nature, Emilie eventually makes a few friends but has a hard time figuring out whom to trust.  One of the workers at the dig, Jack Cameron, makes a royal pest of himself, continually watching and approaching Emilie and thus causing her to suspect him as a potential thief.  Her boss Dr. Herrigan is also very strange and has his own secret agenda.  Another stranger, Sheldon Gold, makes a very bad first impression on Emilie but quickly repairs the damage by taking her out and showing a lot of interest in her and her work.  Other characters weave in and out of the story, as Higley deftly juggles a number of little subplots without ever losing her focus.<br /><br />Margaret, an older woman working at the dig site, sort of takes Emilie under her wing, and she is most responsible for awakening a sense of spiritual curiosity in the book's non-religious protagonist.  At the same time, Emilie is pumped with New Age philosophy by her roommate Jenn and experiences vivid dreams about Marduk and ancient Babylonia that suggest the idea of reincarnation - but she eventually begins to follow Margaret's seven signposts of religious faith as she seriously ponders spirituality and Christianity for the first time.  Rather than look for truth only in the past, Emilie begins searching for truth in the present and future.  It is this nascent faith of Emilie's that helps to sustain her as she is played like a drum by those after the tablet and betrayed by the very individuals she thought to be her friends.<br /><br />There is more than one conspiracy at work in these pages, and Higley does a wonderful job of developing each of them in turn.  Her main characters are strong and well-constructed, and one never knows just how to judge any one of them until thestory plays itself out all the way.  The Christian subtext is very noticeable and, on a few occasions, seems to slow the story down, but the message is presented in a very effective, nonjudgmental fashion and does have a direct bearing on the story of Marduk's tablet itself.  Inspirational as well as exciting, Marduk's Tablet makes for a great read for those inclined to seek the higher truths of this life.til the story plays itself out all the way.   The Christian subtext is very noticeable and, on a few occasions, seems to slow the story down, but the message is presented in a very effective, nonjudgmental fashion and does have a direct bearing on the story of Marduk's tablet itself.  Inspirational as well as exciting, Marduk's Tablet makes for a great read for those inclined to seek the higher truths of this life.	2004-10-16
488285:US	53016962	ROXJSQ4C3ZLGN	0451459512	938448810	Battletech: The Classic Era: The Legend of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A thrilling, compelling look at Clan society and warfare	The Legend of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy tells the extraordinary story of Jade Clan warrior Aidan Pryde, giving the reader a penetrating glimpse into the ways of the clan warrior from birth to death.  It even takes us along for the first invasion of the Inner Sphere by the Clans.  You'll find plenty of hard-hitting, Battlemech action served up liberally in these pages, each encounter more exciting than the last.<br /><br />Clan society is built upon the central importance of warfare, and it is the dream of every child to become a warrior. Some are bred for the task, and the highest honor a warrior can achieve is the acquisition of a Bloodname and inclusion in the genetic warrior pool. The trueborn are artificially created via genetic engineering from the bloodlines of the most accomplished warriors, and these youngsters are all raised and trained together from birth.  Only the very best succeed, while the others are killed or assigned to work among the lower castes. Freeborns, those born by natural means, also can earn warrior status, but their lower caste forbids them from fighting on the front lines.<br /><br />Aidan Pryde is a trueborn who wants desperately to earn warrior status in the Jade Falcon clan to which he was born.  In Way of the Clans, we follow him all the way through the warrior training program, which culminates in the Trial that determines whether or not he will earn the right to lead a monstrous Battletech in battle. In training, individual achievement is stressed over any sort of group mentality, and a true warrior is expected to do anything to reach his/her objectives. Alongside the unprecedented story of Aidan's perilous journey into adulthood we get insightful journal entries from the camp commander enlightening us on the theory and practice of Clan warrior society. This coming of age story is bursting at the seams with action and remarkable insights into that society, making it a truly compelling addition to the Battletech Universe.<br /><br />Bloodname, the second book in the trilogy, boasts battles galore, and the main characters, already well developed in Way of the Clans, continue to grow in the fullest, most intriguing, of ways. Thurston delivers a penetrating study of clan society, human motivation within that society, and a type of heroism that is not limited to action on the battlefield. As a relative newcomer to the Battletech universe, I was delighted to find so many different kinds of Battlemechs involved in the action, as it gave me a most helpful footing in the technology and weapons-related tactics employed in this futuristic world.<br /><br />Aidan is a remarkable protagonist.  He very much wants to earn his Bloodname, but this honor is forbidden him given his new, secretly adopted existence as a freeborn warrior. Now stationed on Glory Point, Aidan finally gets a chance to engage in real combat when a contingent of soldiers from the Wolf Clan seeks to steal the genetic legacy of the base commander there. He is soon reunited with Falconer Joanna, under whom he studied in warrior training. Joanna hates him for many reasons, yet she somehow becomes a strange ally of sorts when Aidan lets the proverbial cat out of the bag.  Not only does he announce the fact that he is a trueborn, he demands the right to compete for a Bloodname. The odds are stacked heavily against him, as he must face a Court of Falconers just to maintain his warrior status.  Then, just to earn a spot in the Bloodname competition, he must emerge victorious from a massive melee of Bloodname hopefuls - and, even if he wins the spot, he still faces the actual Trial of Bloodright, the actual tournament for the right to the Pryde Bloodname. There is also the added difficulty of his opponents' fiery hatred for him -the only thing the trueborn hate more than a freeborn is a trueborn who earned his warrior status in the guise of a freeborn.<br /><br />Falcon Guard completes the trilogy.  Aidan Pryde, despite his amazing accomplishments up to this point, has never been able to rid himself of the taint surrounding his name. Even now that the long-awaited assault on the Inner Sphere has begun, his command has been relegated to mop-up actions far from the front lines of battle. Until now, that is.  He has been given command of the Falcon Guard, a throwaway group of old warriors and insubordinate, troublesome fighters marked by a disgraceful defeat on the planet Twycross, but for Aidan this still represents a chance to fight on the front lines for the glory of the Clans against the Inner Sphere - and to show how effective a commander he can be. With his loyal freeborn friend Horse by his side, he calls upon Joanna to whip the misfits into shape. Among his new charges is his own freeborn daughter - although he does not know he has a daughter or, as a trueborn warrior born of artificial genetic manipulation, really even understand the concept of parenthood.<br /><br />The battlefield of Tukayyid will determine the outcome of the Inner Sphere invasion; victory opens the way for the invasion of Terra itself, but defeat establishes a 15-year period during which the Clans can do nothing to advance their forces. For Aidan Pryde, it is the chance to achieve the honor he has always sought, to remove forevermore the taint attached to his name, his career, and his genetic heritage. Thurston brings the field of battle to vivid life in these pages, offering readers a thrilling look at a massive engagement of Battlemechs and warriors in a fight for victory, pride, and heritage. It's a thrilling, satisfying conclusion to a classic Battletech storyline.g accomplishments up to this point, has never been able to rid himself of the taint surrounding his name. Even now that the long-awaited assault on the Inner Sphere has begun, his command has been relegated to mop-up actions far from the front lines of battle. Until now, that is.  He has been given command of the Falcon Guard, a throwaway group of old warriors and insubordinate, troublesome fighters marked by a disgraceful defeat on the planet Twycross, but for Aidan this still represents a chance to fight on the front lines for the glory of the Clans against the Inner Sphere - and to show how effective a commander he can be. With his loyal freeborn friend Horse by his side, he calls upon Joanna to whip the misfits into shape. Among his new charges is his own freeborn daughter - although he does not know he has a daughter or, as a trueborn warrior born of artificial genetic manipulation, really even understand the concept of parenthood.  <br /> <br />The battlefield of Tukayyid will determine the outcome of the Inner Sphere invasion; victory opens the way for the invasion of Terra itself, but defeat establishes a 15-year period during which the Clans can do nothing to advance their forces. For Aidan Pryde, it is the chance to achieve the honor he has always sought, to remove forevermore the taint attached to his name, his career, and his genetic heritage. Thurston brings the field of battle to vivid life in these pages, offering readers a thrilling look at a massive engagement of Battlemechs and warriors in a fight for victory, pride, and heritage. It's a thrilling, satisfying conclusion to a classic Battletech storyline.	2004-10-16
488441:US	53016962	R140Q24UBOCQ3N	0764228196	352878368	Adrenaline	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A pulse-pounding medical thriller that never slows down	Adrenaline is a doubly appropriate name for John B. Olson's first solo novel, for not only does adrenaline hold an integral place in the medical foundation of the plot, the novel itself rushes from first page to last at an adrenaline-pumping pace.  The action gets a little repetitive from time to time, but it never slows down.  I have to admit that I did have a little trouble settling down into this fictional world of Olson's making.  On the one hand, you have a modern-day medical thriller involving the search for a cure to a dread disease.  On the other hand, you have a character haunted, either figuratively or literally (you don't know early on) by a mysterious and possibly quasi-human Dark Man, and the streets of this world are sometimes populated by almost surreal drug users of a slightly fantastic nature.  Thus, the story resides somewhat uncomfortably in a modern, scientific setting; perhaps this was intentional on the part of the author - it did, after all, force me to think more deeply about these characters and the story unfolding before my eager eyes.<br /><br />James Parker is a much-heralded graduate student in biochemistry.  He is desperately seeking a cure for muscular dystrophy, a disease that not only he, but his sister also, suffers from.  Already confined to a wheelchair, James figures he has about four years left to fight, but his sister Jenny is already in the final throes of the disease.  Finally, James seems to be on the brink of a breakthrough, as a certain chemical derivative of adrenaline has induced motion in his MC-afflicted test mice.  In the throes of hopeful joy, he heroically barrels into a crowd of Glass-heads (drug addicts) threatening a young woman outside the chemistry building, and the mysterious character of Darcy Williams enters his life.  Darcy is a difficult character to decipher early on; she is incredibly paranoid, seeing agents of a mysterious Dark Man all around her, refusing to let anyone know where she lives, and keeping all manner of secrets from those who would befriend her.  She begins to help Parker with his experiments, bringing along, somewhat reluctantly, a young suitor of hers named Jason.  There is a lot of romantic tension between Parker and Darcy from the beginning, one that builds into a lot of \\"does he like me? - does she like me?\\" material -almost too much, actually.<br /><br />Confident that he has discovered a cure but knowing his sister Jenny will never live long enough to benefit from it as it plods its way through years of testing and approval, James violates everything he knows is right and medically ethical and begins testing the drug on himself (despite the fact that the drug caused incidents of extreme aggression in his test mice).  It has quite an effect on him, initially setting him on fire internally, causing spasms of immense agony, and similar nasty side effects.  It also, however, begins working.  In short order, he regains the ability to walk; eventually, he acquires a degree of unnatural strength and agility.  He also experiences disturbing nightmares and unsettling blackout periods, often waking up later in the unhealthiest of places and conditions.  As the work proceeds, mysterious men begin following our heroes, destroying their labs, attacking them, and seemingly going after the medical secret Parker seems to hold.  Although a lot of the action gets repetitive, and one wonders where everybody else in Berkeley is all the time, Olson makes it difficult to figure out exactly what is going on.  Is it the obvious?  Is it Darcy's Dark Man?  What about the fictional professor Jason created in order to publicize the research, a scientist who seems rather well-known for a nonexistent person?  The ultimate conclusion is surprisingly satisfying, although I just can't accept a couple of the conclusions I'm apparently supposed to accept here.<br /><br />James and Darcy are engaging characters you will be rooting for with great enthusiasm. On a few occasions, however, they do or say things that struck me as clich&eacute;d or a bit overdrawn, reminding me that this is in fact a novel about people who don't really exist.  The action also seems a tad repetitive in places, but these are small complaints on my part.  Olson has no trouble whatsoever in terms of pace, suspense, and action.  You have to stop and take a breath between chapters because Olson doesn't slow down for a second; he maintains the energy of this story all the way to the end, an accomplishment that is really quite remarkable.sions, however, they do or say things that struck me as clichd or a bit overdrawn, reminding me that this is in fact a novel about people who don't really exist.  The action also seems a tad repetitive in places, but these are small complaints on my part.  Olson has no trouble whatsoever in terms of pace, suspense, and action.  You have to stop and take a breath between chapters because Olson doesn't slow down for a second; he maintains the energy of this story all the way to the end, an accomplishment that is really quite remarkable.	2004-10-16
493002:US	53016962	R1WTGETDG9GXHB	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	5	74	79	N	Y	You are entering the Nightside - try not to stare	In Something From the Nightside, Simon R. Green takes us on the initial exploration of a fascinating hidden world located far below the civilized streets of London.  In the Nightside, it is always 3 AM; people (and other things) come from all kinds of worlds (including fictional ones) and times to indulge in the secret and oftentimes perverse pleasures they can never pursue in their own worlds; and anything and everything is possible - the sight of a fallen angel burning eternally in a blood-sealed circle qualifies as a mundane sight.  Native Nightsiders all possess a gift of some sort - oftentimes a deadly one.  It's a dangerous place, which is exactly why John Taylor left it five years ago.  Now ensconced in the real world of London, he is a private detective of the film noir sort.  When a rich dame comes seeking his help in finding her lost daughter, though, he finds himself returning to the secret world he vowed never to set foot in again.  John Taylor's natural-born gift is an uncanny power to find things, especially within the confines of the Nightside.  If anyone can find the missing girl, he can - whether he can survive long enough to do it, is a completely different matter.<br /><br />Despite his misgivings, the journey back feels like going home.  Little has changed in the Nightside.  At Sidefellows bar, Alex Morrisey is still tending the bar (but of course, he is cursed to always remain there); Razor Eddie, Punk God of the Straight Razor and Nightside's most proficient eternal killer, is still coming in for free drinks; Suzie Shooter is still around to shoot first and ask questions later; and young punks still have no better sense than to challenge John Taylor's powers.  Taylor's gift can be deadly, and he is soon given the opportunity to prove that five years away have not lessened his powers.  The secret of Taylor's childhood and mysterious destiny are fleshed out as the story progresses, but the one thing Taylor has been unable to find is the meaning and significance obviously attached to his life - although he's pretty sure it has something to do with his non-human mother who disappeared after he was born.  Some unknown but very powerful someone (or something) has been trying to kill him ever since he was a kid, and the blank-faced, pseudo-beings called The Harrowing soon appear to claim their long-stalked prey.  They are just one of several deadly problems Taylor encounters on his mission to find the missing young girl.<br /><br />The actual climax of the story is a little less satisfying than what comes before, but that's about the only small weakness in this action-packed, fast-paced novel.  Green proves himself a master of sly, dark humor in these pages, mixing a sharp wit with sociopolitical satire and plenty of campy hard-boiled detective adventure to create a portal to a wondrously enigmatic world where anything can happen and usually does.  While the search for the missing girl remains the center of the novel, the story really shifts to that of the mysterious John Taylor himself, as we learn about his past and - thanks to a Timeslip phenomenon - a cataclysmic future he will supposedly bring about.  Messiah-like references to him by the likes of the Brittle Sisters of the Hive raise intriguing questions, questions John Taylor wishes he knew the answers to himself.<br /><br />The prolific Simon R. Green has created other worlds of great fascination in the fields of science fiction and fantasy, but the Nightside may be his most memorable creation, as it truly takes on a unique life of its own.  Something From the Nightside leaves many a door open for Green to continue his dark and highly entertaining jaunts into this fascinating world, and the intriguingly complex life of John Taylor is guaranteed to bring delighted readers along for the ride as long as it lasts - especially if it takes us to more places where plague rats travel in pairs because they are afraid to venture out alone.and significance obviously attached to his life - although he's pretty sure it has something to do with his non-human mother who disappeared after he was born.  Some unknown but very powerful someone (or something) has been trying to kill him ever since he was a kid, and the blank-faced, pseudo-beings called The Harrowing soon appear to claim their long-stalked prey.  They are just one of several deadly problems Taylor encounters on his mission to find the missing young girl.   <br /> <br />The actual climax of the story is a little less satisfying than what comes before, but that's about the only small weakness in this action-packed, fast-paced novel.  Green proves himself a master of sly, dark humor in these pages, mixing a sharp wit with sociopolitical satire and plenty of campy hard-boiled detective adventure to create a portal to a wondrously enigmatic world where anything can happen and usually does.  While the search for the missing girl remains the center of the novel, the story really shifts to that of the mysterious John Taylor himself, as we learn about his past and - thanks to a Timeslip phenomenon - a cataclysmic future he will supposedly bring about.  Messiah-like references to him by the likes of the Brittle Sisters of the Hive raise intriguing questions, questions John Taylor wishes he knew the answers to himself.   <br /> <br />The prolific Simon R. Green has created other worlds of great fascination in the fields of science fiction and fantasy, but the Nightside may be his most memorable creation, as it truly takes on a unique life of its own.  Something From the Nightside leaves many a door open for Green to continue his dark and highly entertaining jaunts into this fascinating world, and the intriguingly complex life of John Taylor is guaranteed to bring delighted readers along for the ride as long as it lasts - especially if it takes us to more places where plague rats travel in pairs because they are afraid to venture out alone.	2004-10-12
495440:US	53016962	R2ER8AYKOTPHFZ	0595321631	436652814	The Drone Virus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An emotionally powerful medical thriller	The very idea of having an MRI scan is unpleasant - you're stuck inside this big old tube, unable to move, for one thing; more importantly, though, it means something is not right somewhere in your body.  What if, on top of all these other troubling issues, the MRI scanner might kill you?  What if it killed your child?  That is just what happens in the compelling medical thriller The Drone Virus.  Blending science with a moving elaboration of the very heart of humanity, Gerald Clarke has produced a truly memorable medical thriller for the 21st century.<br /><br />This novel really grabs you by the throat from the very beginning because the victims are children.  First, a hard-up case with constant seizures dies inside the machine - no one really seems to care because the kid was just a poor throwaway of society.  Soon thereafter, though, Jamie Rogers dies.  Get your tissues ready because hers is a heart-breaking story.  Jamie was a cancer survivor, thanks to the genetic therapy techniques being developed by Dr. John O'Brien at Daley Children's Hospital.  She seemed perfectly healthy when the docs chose to do an MRI scan, then she began suffering horrendous seizures during the test.  Her father's grief soon turns to anger, as he is convinced the machine somehow killed his daughter.  Of course, the doctors and hospital administrators refuse to consider such a crazy idea, and Jamie's death is officially determined to be a result of the cancer returning to her brain.  Stephen Rogers refuses to give up his new quest, however, even if it threatens the burgeoning romantic relationship he has going with Dr. Colleen O'Brien.  His computer whiz kid of a former coworker looks into the matter for him, coming up with the idea that a virus might have infected the system - a very special, hard-to-detect one called a drone virus.  Of course, proving it is all but impossible, especially since Stephen and his buddy can't legally examine the machine's computer code.  Of course, grieving fathers seeking justice for their dead children are a pretty determined lot.<br /><br />Don't worry about getting lost amid the science, medicine, and computer issues that mold the shape of this story.  Gerald Clarke proves himself to be as good a writer as he is a knowledgeable doctor and software expert; he carefully guides reader through the technical details as they evolve.  Besides, you will be breathless as a result of all of the action that takes place.  Stephen had no idea he would find himself staring a sinister, greed-filled conspiracy in the face, a group of heartless men who aren't afraid to stop his private investigation at any cost.  You also have the roller coaster relationship between Stephen and Colleen as well as plenty of heroic fireworks to capture your rapt attention.  What stands out the most, however, is the attitude and behavior of many of the medical professionals involved in this tragedy.  Colleen became a doctor for all the right reasons, but several of her peers come across as inhuman and certainly inhumane, caring only for money, power, or glory while viewing sick children as pawns in their sick games of self-interest.<br /><br />At first glance, the notion of an MRI scanner being infected with a virus that actually kills patients seems a little out there.  In the able hands of Clarke, though, Stephen Rogers' crazy notion gets feet and runs like the wind.  The fact that you get to know these sick children as well as you do makes their fatal experiences with the scanner personal tragedies that really affect you as a reader.  Sadness easily builds into fury, however, as things progress and you find out exactly what is going on here.  To say this novel is compelling would be a vast understatement.  If you enjoy a good medical thriller, Gerald Clarke has got the very prescription you need in the form of The Drone Virus.ving fathers seeking justice for their dead children are a pretty determined lot. <br /> <br />Don't worry about getting lost amid the science, medicine, and computer issues that mold the shape of this story.  Gerald Clarke proves himself to be as good a writer as he is a knowledgeable doctor and software expert; he carefully guides reader through the technical details as they evolve.  Besides, you will be breathless as a result of all of the action that takes place.  Stephen had no idea he would find himself staring a sinister, greed-filled conspiracy in the face, a group of heartless men who aren't afraid to stop his private investigation at any cost.  You also have the roller coaster relationship between Stephen and Colleen as well as plenty of heroic fireworks to capture your rapt attention.  What stands out the most, however, is the attitude and behavior of many of the medical professionals involved in this tragedy.  Colleen became a doctor for all the right reasons, but several of her peers come across as inhuman and certainly inhumane, caring only for money, power, or glory while viewing sick children as pawns in their sick games of self-interest. <br /> <br />At first glance, the notion of an MRI scanner being infected with a virus that actually kills patients seems a little out there.  In the able hands of Clarke, though, Stephen Rogers' crazy notion gets feet and runs like the wind.  The fact that you get to know these sick children as well as you do makes their fatal experiences with the scanner personal tragedies that really affect you as a reader.  Sadness easily builds into fury, however, as things progress and you find out exactly what is going on here.  To say this novel is compelling would be a vast understatement.  If you enjoy a good medical thriller, Gerald Clarke has got the very prescription you need in the form of The Drone Virus.	2004-10-09
495536:US	53016962	R2SCW1AEW6EMVG	0786714581	133656910	The Two Sams: Ghost Stories	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Literary horror of the highest order	The five novellas that make up The Two Sams are billed as ghost stories, but I would describe them more as haunting pieces of fiction, which is not necessarily the same thing. Glen Hirshberg has a wonderful writing style, one that has already earned him many award nominations in his young career. It's a mix of the classic and the modern, a sort of Henry James meets Ramsey Campbell, and in fact Campbell supplies the meritorious introduction to this collection. What you get here is the highest literary form of the dark tale.<br /><br />There is a great deal of variety between the five long short stories collected here, but they all share a wonderful atmosphere and the underpinnings of well-constructed tales. They are not traditional ghost stories; indeed, they could best be described as psychological horror pieces that remind us once again that the most frightening ghosts are sometimes the ones inside our own heads.<br /><br />The title story is the shortest and my least favorite of the bunch. It revolves around a father trying to deal with the history of two miscarried pregnancies as his wife's third pregnancy enters its final stages. Who can say what kind of connection a father might have to his children who were not to be? \\"Dancing Men\\" seems to garner the most critical acclaim among these stories, but this tale of a boy's very strange rite of passage, one linking the horrors his grandfather suffered in the Holocaust with Native American rituals, didn't evoke the same type of feelings the other stories evoked in me. \\"Shipwreck Beach\\" is an interesting story set just off the coast of a Hawaiian island. A young lady has come to see her cousin and friend for the first time since he got out of jail and moved to the islands. Her cousin has something to show her, a mysterious boat that sort of just appeared and cannot be sunk just off the coast. The most interesting aspect of this tale is the story that evolves from the young man's history, the mysterious culmination of which comes onboard the strangely otherworldly boat.<br /><br />If you are looking for real scares, I would direct your attention to \\"Struwwelpter\\" and \\"Mr. Dark's Carnival.\\" The first story is rather a strange one involving a youth's fascination with a mysterious old man's house and gardens, especially a bell that can reportedly raise the dead. The exploration of the house produces some potentially scary moments for the reader, and the story takes a strange and in some ways much more disturbing turn at the very end.<br /><br />\\"Mr. Dark's Carnival\\" is, in my opinion, the best story by far in this collection. It is set in a college Montana town famous for its Halloween celebrations, much of the collective enthusiasm bound up in the local legend of a strange carnival of undisclosed horrors going back many years. The protagonist is a college professor who delights in teaching this local tradition to his students, and for years he has sought the opportunity to visit this ultimate Halloween haunted house experience -- if it actually exists. You have to be invited to the undisclosed location, and this year he receives what might be a genuine ticket to the supposedly legendary festivities. The whole atmosphere of the story is teeming with spooky potential, the experience as it is happening is fully capable of raising a few hairs on the back of your neck, and the ending hits you like a punch in the guts. I have to say, in all honesty, \\"Mr. Dark's Carnival\\" is one of the most impressive horror stories I have read in a long time.<br /><br />If you have your doubts about the continued honing of the darker crafts of writing in this modern age, you will be especially pleased to sample the impressive wares of Glen Hirshberg. This guy is, as they say, going places -- and he is taking a deep sense of the rich history of the horror genre along with him.on of which comes onboard the strangely otherworldly boat.  <br /> <br />If you are looking for real scares, I would direct your attention to \\"Struwwelpter\\" and \\"Mr. Dark's Carnival.\\" The first story is rather a strange one involving a youth's fascination with a mysterious old man's house and gardens, especially a bell that can reportedly raise the dead. The exploration of the house produces some potentially scary moments for the reader, and the story takes a strange and in some ways much more disturbing turn at the very end.  <br /> <br />\\"Mr. Dark's Carnival\\" is, in my opinion, the best story by far in this collection. It is set in a college Montana town famous for its Halloween celebrations, much of the collective enthusiasm bound up in the local legend of a strange carnival of undisclosed horrors going back many years. The protagonist is a college professor who delights in teaching this local tradition to his students, and for years he has sought the opportunity to visit this ultimate Halloween haunted house experience -- if it actually exists. You have to be invited to the undisclosed location, and this year he receives what might be a genuine ticket to the supposedly legendary festivities. The whole atmosphere of the story is teeming with spooky potential, the experience as it is happening is fully capable of raising a few hairs on the back of your neck, and the ending hits you like a punch in the guts. I have to say, in all honesty, \\"Mr. Dark's Carnival\\" is one of the most impressive horror stories I have read in a long time.  <br /> <br />If you have your doubts about the continued honing of the darker crafts of writing in this modern age, you will be especially pleased to sample the impressive wares of Glen Hirshberg. This guy is, as they say, going places -- and he is taking a deep sense of the rich history of the horror genre along with him.	2004-10-09
495838:US	53016962	R36ELUMSPBC4NS	1931081409	100186904	Triads	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Very good, but some will be turned off by the subject matter	Poppy Z. Brite and Christa Faust are amazingly talented writers, and the tapestry they weave from three distinct yet interrelated stories in this short novel is impressive. This is not to say I enjoyed every minute of the reading experience, however. In the hands of lesser writers, Triads would be nothing more than a shocking tale of sexual perversions that few readers would feel comfortable wading through. I certainly felt uncomfortable the whole time I was reading it, but I can't deny the power of the story.<br /><br />Given the authors, you probably anticipate the existence of homosexuality in Triads, and you would be right in doing so. That barely begins to scratch the surface, however. This book has more homosexual encounters than should even fit in less than 200 pages: you've got men loving men, men loving boys, boys loving boys, women loving women and one woman loving another woman in the guise of a man. There are cross-dressers galore, including children. You can rarely go three pages without coming up on another secret tryst between anything under the sun. If this kind of explicit subject matter bothers you the least little bit, the odds are pretty good that you will toss Triads away in disgust very early on.<br /><br />Those who do read the short novel (even those who -- like me -- were quite uncomfortable the whole way through) will find themselves looking back on a tale that emerges with a beauty all its own and a capability to move the reader on several occasions. This book actually started out as a short story published in Douglas E. Winter's anthology Revelations, and that original story is easily the most gripping and poignant link in Triads' three-link chain. An additional two stories, tied to the first one, were added to produce this short novel.<br /><br />The saga begins in Hong Kong in the year 1937. A boy named Ji Fung is sold to an opera house by his mother, splintering the boy from his well-to-do father. Master Lau is a cruel teacher who succeeds in training all of his boys to perform, and perhaps no lad is more mistreated than Lin Bai. Lin Bai always plays the lead female role in the operas, and Ji Fung comes to love his only friend in a special way. Lin Bai finally puts a stop to his master's abuse, and the two lads escape the opera house. They are soon taken in by a wealthy man who enjoys watching the lads \\"perform,\\" and both boys start dressing in women's clothes to avoid detection by the police. Ji Fung almost miraculously finds his way to his long-lost uncle, who tells him the true horrors that came about on the night Ji Fung disappeared and sends his nephew on a special, Triad-related (criminal) mission to Shanghai. Ji Fung and his two friends make the trip, only to find themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time as the Sino-Japanese War heats up -- big-time. As bad as Ji Fung's life was up until this point, much deeper tragedy sinks its claws into his soul now.<br /><br />The novel then jumps ahead to 1945 Hollywood, where Ji Fung has come to seek a career in the movies. Here we meet novelist and scriptwriter Nan Blake, whose professional name and public persona is that of Blake Blackline, a man. She falls head over heels with a seemingly innocent young starlet, from whom she goes to great lengths to hide her true female identity. Ji Fung, now known as Jimmy, sees shades of Lin Bai in a burlesque singer but eventually finds nothing but the same old tragedy. All of these characters come together in a miasma of gory murder, exacerbating the tragedy of Ji Fung. Then we skip ahead to the present day to meet Jake Ryan, an actor on the brink of success who is tormented by his private homosexual feelings. The story takes something of a spiritual or otherworldly turn at this juncture, as a mysterious Chinaman seems to haunt Ryan's vision as he tries to decide between a life of happiness with a man he truly loves or a career that could be ruined by public knowledge of his homosexuality.<br /><br />While the three stories differ dramatically in terms of setting (both time and place), characters and situations, they come together to tell the life story of Ji Fung. It is a tragic tale of mistreatment, confusing gender and sexuality, pain, suffering, death and -- just perhaps -- love and release in the end. It seems to me all of this could have been achieved without tossing sexual perversions on every other page, but when you step back and look at Triads in an objective way, you see a well-crafted tale that succeeds admirably in communicating the themes the authors wanted to convey.<br /> <br />While the three stories differ dramatically in terms of setting (both time and place), characters and situations, they come together to tell the life story of Ji Fung. It is a tragic tale of mistreatment, confusing gender and sexuality, pain, suffering, death and -- just perhaps -- love and release in the end. It seems to me all of this could have been achieved without tossing sexual perversions on every other page, but when you step back and look at Triads in an objective way, you see a well-crafted tale that succeeds admirably in communicating the themes the authors wanted to convey.	2004-10-09
497135:US	53016962	RX1P3B73EXBNV	1585423785	448568835	The Faith of George W. Bush	Books	5	8	23	N	N	An inspirational look at the power of faith in Bush's life	America has seen many a politician wear his faith on his sleeve - more often than not, it's obviously fake, nothing more than a political play for votes from Christian voters.  We've seen, in Ronald Reagan, a man of great faith whose powerful religious convictions are only now being truly appreciated by the public for the first time.  We've seen, in Bill Clinton, a President who spoke of and obviously valued his Baptist beliefs but continually fell prey to temptation.  Now, we have George W. Bush, a man who makes no secret of his Christian beliefs and ideals and their crucial significance in everything he does - and he acts on those beliefs, every day.  Christians have been heightened and inspired, nonbelievers have increased their anti-religion lawsuits, and the whole country has had to reconsider the role of morality and faith in the life of the nation.<br /><br />This is not a biography of George W. Bush, but it does take us back to his roots in Midland, Texas, and follows him all the way to the White House.  The President never had a \\"road to Damascus\\" moment; the Bushes were a church-going family, and Bush has basically been a churchgoer all of his life.  He did not truly commit himself to God's plan until he passed his fortieth birthday, but the ever-present religious aspects of his earlier life can clearly be seen moving him in that direction, preparing the ground for \\"the mustard seed\\" planted in the company of Billy Graham in 1985 to take root and prosper.  Bush was, for many years, a man without a true purpose, a son living in the shadow of his famous father's name, and the account of Bush's \\"nomad\\" years reflect the man's search for meaning in his life.  You will read about his \\"young and irresponsible\\" days, the years in which he grew in stature but vacillated in the application of God's word in his personal life, his ultimate decision to stop drinking, and several milestones on the road to faith that ultimately changed him completely.<br /><br />While this book does not go into the details of Bush's faith-based initiative proposals, it does a superb job of relating these bold ideas to the actual actions and ideals of America's founding fathers.  Obviously, the book covers the importance of Bush's faith in terms of dealing with 9/11 and its aftermath.  Lest we forget, Bush has often been criticized by the religious right for his seeming acceptance of Islam as a religion of peace.  Whether criticized from the right or the left, Bush follows his own moral compass because he now knows he is right with God.  This does not mean he wants to force Christianity down everyone's throats - far from it.  Bush equates personal morality with public policy, as the author explains extremely well in these pages.  This belief system influences every decision he makes, which is a sign of the genuine nature of his faith.<br /><br />The Faith of George W. Bush is an inspirational book all Christians can profit from reading - even those who dislike the President.  In these pages you will see how God has worked in Bush's life, patiently waiting for him to heed the call he has heard all of his life, and you can see the incredible change that a commitment to Christ ultimately made in that life.  In twelve years, Bush went from a good man without any real focus in his life to the President of the United States, one who has shown us all how richly faith can infuse a politician's important work in life without stepping across the line marking the separation of church and state.  Forget politics, if you can - this is an inspirational story of the power of faith in one man's life.hile this book does not go into the details of Bush's faith-based initiative proposals, it does a superb job of relating these bold ideas to the actual actions and ideals of America's founding fathers.  Obviously, the book covers the importance of Bush's faith in terms of dealing with 9/11 and its aftermath.  Lest we forget, Bush has often been criticized by the religious right for his seeming acceptance of Islam as a religion of peace.  Whether criticized from the right or the left, Bush follows his own moral compass because he now knows he is right with God.  This does not mean he wants to force Christianity down everyone's throats - far from it.  Bush equates personal morality with public policy, as the author explains extremely well in these pages.  This belief system influences every decision he makes, which is a sign of the genuine nature of his faith. <br /> <br />The Faith of George W. Bush is an inspirational book all Christians can profit from reading - even those who dislike the President.  In these pages you will see how God has worked in Bush's life, patiently waiting for him to heed the call he has heard all of his life, and you can see the incredible change that a commitment to Christ ultimately made in that life.  In twelve years, Bush went from a good man without any real focus in his life to the President of the United States, one who has shown us all how richly faith can infuse a politician's important work in life without stepping across the line marking the separation of church and state.  Forget politics, if you can - this is an inspirational story of the power of faith in one man's life.	2004-10-07
499076:US	53016962	R1BYNFCEVRDW5R	0595318908	141338329	Creator: A Superhero Epic	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An energetic start to a promising new series	I would describe Alexander B. Edwards' Creator: A Superhero Epic as a graphic novel without the graphics.  Like his superhero characters, the author assumes an alias to protect his secret identity as a counterintelligence officer in the military, and his background in intelligence, counterespionage, and the like serves him well in the construction of a story featuring a myriad of military operations.  Borne out of the milieu of superhero comics and role-playing superhero games, Creator ebbs and flows with a rhythm all its own.  Transitions are sometimes abrupt, character development is somewhat limited, and events occasionally seem to pass by just a little too quickly.  At the same time, though, the novel offers plenty of exciting, suspenseful moments in the form of fast-paced action scenes.<br /><br />The action in Creator centers around Richard Octavian, a far from typical college student; in actuality, he is a 92-year-old mutant who became disillusioned by the nature of his assignments in the Vietnam Conflict.  Basically immortal, he has the power to shape-shift and thus appear as a perfectly normal college kid.  Of course, his unique qualities come to the fore when unknown assassins shoot him in the chest at point blank range.  In his reaction to the surprising attempt on his life, Richard meets up with two other on-campus mutants, and the three new friends band together to form a new mutant superhero group.  Other mutant superheroes exist, but the Special Investigations Agency (SIA) is more than happy to support an additional group in the fight against evil, particularly evil wrought by dishonorable mutants.  Richard assumes the identity of Creator, while his two new partners become Mindseye and Night.  About the time their top-secret, super-nifty, well-camouflaged headquarters is built, the Eternal Champions are called into action.  A ship carrying a number of important persons, including two prominent South Americans, has crash-landed inside Complex San Francisco, a lawless penal colony dominated by a power-hungry mutant named Sargon.  In this universe, a unified South America dominates the world militarily, scientifically, and technologically - if their agents are not rescued quickly, America may well be looking at a war it cannot win.<br /><br />The story begins to come into its own during the daring rescue mission, but there are even more important missions and problems in the future.  An alien spaceship has secretly come to Earth as part of a plan to save the galaxy (which naturally involves taking over the earth as the first step), and one of the new superhero mutant girlfriends is the key to the alien strategy.  The work of the Eternal Champions, it would seem, is never done.<br /><br />The writing is somewhat unpolished at times; characters have a tendency, for example, to sometimes explain acronyms or concepts parenthetically to one another - granted, this is information the reader needs to know, but at the same time it is information the characters would not need to explain to one another.  I also had a hard time getting to know the characters, which in turn led me to question some of their actions - particularly in the field of interpersonal relations.  Perhaps I asked too much of the story, though, as its roots in role-playing superhero games tend to shape it in terms of episodic, action-packed events following closely upon the heels of one another.<br /><br />The impetus of this story goes back many years, evolving out of the childhood dreams and role-play gaming experience of the author, and this helps to explain the sudden transitions from one scene to another.  There is a related issue of certain characters and themes falling by the wayside as the novel progresses.  While this is problematic of the novel taken as an entity unto itself, an explanation can seemingly be found in the fact that this is the first in a series of eight novels revolving around the work of Earth's newest superhero organization.  Iimagine that future books in the series will flesh out these characters to a greater degree and answer some of my questions about the background and \\"big picture\\" elements of the story so far.  In the meantime, the mission-based chapters of Creator certainly do provide ample fuel for the novel's adventuresome engine, making this an enjoyable, fast-paced read, and it will be interesting to see where the author takes his superhero epic in future installments of the series.ization.  I imagine that future books in the series will flesh out these characters to a greater degree and answer some of my questions about the background and \\"big picture\\" elements of the story so far.  In the meantime, the mission-based chapters of Creator certainly do provide ample fuel for the novel's adventuresome engine, making this an enjoyable, fast-paced read, and it will be interesting to see where the author takes his superhero epic in future installments of the series.	2004-10-06
500321:US	53016962	R2CK4HDM8IGZZC	0975912305	429511340	Den Of The Assassin	Books	5	36	38	N	N	A thoroughly engaging, unpredictable suspense thriller	This is one seriously good thriller.  Billed as \\"a novel of international finance and espionage,\\" Den of the Assassin is a super-realistic exploration of frightening possibilities, unsurpassed heroism, Lucifer-like evil, and terrorism of the worst kind.  When you look at the cover, which features a shot of the American Stock Exchange captured in the sights of a rifle, you might think this the novel revolves around some kind of Day of the Jackal-like assassination plot, but the complexity of this novel stretches its tendrils deeply into international finance, the vagaries of the American legal and health care systems, international terrorism, diplomacy, intelligence, WMD, and cold-blooded murder - with a little romance thrown in just to stir up the pot a little more.  Peter Thomas does a masterful job traversing the inner hallways of diverse institutions as he slowly brings all of these diverse elements together for a slam-bang climax.<br /><br />The novel is steeped in the new realities of our post-9/11 world, which gives the whole story a visceral prescience teeming with realism and frightful possibility.  The focus also provides a warning of sorts, as the greatest danger to America may lie where it is least suspected.  The potential dangers inherent in the secret black-market underworld (and the rogues' hall of evil men it does business with) of a still-troubled Russia become a clear and present danger as Den of the Assassin works its way toward its highly suspenseful conclusion.<br /><br />Tyler Boxter is a young, well-respected investment banker working in the heart of Wall Street.  He and his partner, retired judge John Morgan, are days away from finally realizing a dream borne of years of hard and highly secretive work.  If eight Special Letter Ruling applications (SLRs) they have submitted amongst several federal agencies are approved, the two partners will thoroughly shake up the financial, insurance, and medical world by revolutionizing (and perhaps even fixing) the health care industry - they will also, in the process, earn almost unimaginable profits for themselves and the company.  Tyler has basically staked his wealth and reputation on this plan, and it is a truly risky proposition - if a single one of the SLRs is rejected, the whole plan falls apart.  The greatest danger, however, is that someone outside of Tyler's tight circle will find out what is going on and begin putting up legal roadblocks to keep it from happening.  Many people stand to lose vast sums in the wake of this revolutionary change, and they will do just about anything to stop the deal dead in its tracks.  Tyler knew that going in, but he could never have realized the true dangers he would soon be facing.<br /><br />Tyler's greatest fear is realized when copies of the SLRs are stolen by unknown thieves.  Thinking a competitor is out there trying to circumvent the deal, Tyler and Morgan bring in Judge Ronnie Pitt, a brilliant but disparaged 83-year-old lawyer and Morgan's mentor, and rush to move their timetable up so that they can move as soon as the applications come through (they hope).  As things develop, it becomes increasingly clear that Tyler and Morgan have a much bigger problem on their hands than they initially thought, though.  For reasons they can't comprehend, their ordeal seems to be linked to an international terrorist operation.  Fears of financial failure soon turn to fears for their very lives and those of their friends and loved ones.  What makes this terrorist threat so insidious and dangerous is the fact that it does not come from the likely suspects (e.g., al-Qaeda).  The real enemy here consists of a criminal, Mafia-type organization of old guard Russian hard-liners led by an untraceable mad genius with designs on destroying America and using her pilfered resources to make Russia the dominant player in the world.  The Father, as this mysterious entity is called, needs money - and lots of it - and he will stop at absolutely nothing to get what he wants - including the unleashing of an all-too real \\"mythical\\" superplague secretly developed in Russia's biological weapons labs.<br /><br />Thomas displays a wealth of knowledge of geopolitics, espionage, and international finance, describing all the technical intricacies of the story's elements and implications with great attention to detail -without ever letting the pace get bogged down or become confusing to the reader.  He also keeps a number of secrets close to the vest, saving them for just the right time in the story.  This serves to make the book thoroughly believable and increasingly suspenseful.  There's no shortage of action here.  What Tyler finds himself involved in is nothing less than a war, and he must fight to save not only himself, his friends, and his company, but his very country from an unimaginable catastrophe.  The Father's network of agents and killers is as formidable as they come, and the security-related forces Tyler brings into the game are some of the best money can buy.  In the end, though, the drama becomes deeply personal, as The Father and Tyler Boxter rush headlong toward a face-to-face encounter of epic proportions.<br /><br />Many a writer of thrillers seem to drop the ball somewhere in the middle of their novels, but Thomas' knowledge of geopolitics, international finance, and 21st century terrorist threats keeps the fires of detailed complexity and story evolution stoked and red-hot for the entire ride.  Tyler Boxter is no James Bond, but Den of the Assassin proves to be just as exciting as any 007 caper - and much more realistic.tely nothing to get what he wants - including the unleashing of an all-too real \\"mythical\\" superplague secretly developed in Russia's biological weapons labs.   <br /> <br />Thomas displays a wealth of knowledge of geopolitics, espionage, and international finance, describing all the technical intricacies of the story's elements and implications with great attention to detail -without ever letting the pace get bogged down or become confusing to the reader.  He also keeps a number of secrets close to the vest, saving them for just the right time in the story.  This serves to make the book thoroughly believable and increasingly suspenseful.  There's no shortage of action here.  What Tyler finds himself involved in is nothing less than a war, and he must fight to save not only himself, his friends, and his company, but his very country from an unimaginable catastrophe.  The Father's network of agents and killers is as formidable as they come, and the security-related forces Tyler brings into the game are some of the best money can buy.  In the end, though, the drama becomes deeply personal, as The Father and Tyler Boxter rush headlong toward a face-to-face encounter of epic proportions. <br /> <br />Many a writer of thrillers seem to drop the ball somewhere in the middle of their novels, but Thomas' knowledge of geopolitics, international finance, and 21st century terrorist threats keeps the fires of detailed complexity and story evolution stoked and red-hot for the entire ride.  Tyler Boxter is no James Bond, but Den of the Assassin proves to be just as exciting as any 007 caper - and much more realistic.	2004-10-05
501307:US	53016962	R1GYZN6NXVZWOX	0595316239	107840623	The Jihad Virus: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A compelling, adrenaline-pumping bioterrorism thriller	It's one of our greatest nightmares in the post-9/11 world: an outbreak of smallpox engineered by terrorists.  That scenario stands at the core of Thomas P. Hopp's thrilling new novel The Jihad Virus.  This book does not read as if a scientist wrote it - it is exciting, fast-paced, and eminently readable - yet Hopp knows the science of which he speaks.  He is an expert in vaccine technology and genetic engineering, and he founded a large biotechnology company called Immunex.  His knowledge of the subject matter transforms this novel into a realistic, gripping read incorporating actual scientific facts and theories into a frighteningly realistic story.  Few will inherently understand the scientific jargon of DNA, genetic coding, and vaccination espoused by the book's medical hero, but that sense of realism does nothing to slow down the pace or distract the reader for very long at all, especially since the protagonist is befuddled by much of this information himself.  Much of the actual research that takes place in these pages is constrained or stymied by office and corporate politics, as well, and most of us can identify with that type of burden.<br /><br />Fin Morton, the first-person narrator of the drama, is a free-lance medical reporter who suddenly finds himself deeply involved in the story of his life when a case of smallpox is reported at a local Seattle hospital.  The victim is a U.S. customs inspector on the U.S.-Canadian border.  Naturally, there is said to be no need for panic, as authorities have rushed to isolate the patient and the deadly virus he carries, but it is almost impossible to isolate such a highly virulent disease.  The fact that the smallpox victim is a border guard, who would have come into contact with a large number of people before falling prey to the symptoms of the disease, makes for a frightening proposition.  Fin seeks out the head of Immune Corporation, a local research facility well-known for developing a vaccine for the recent Congo River virus, and is put in contact with Dr. Peyton McKean, the unsung (thanks to his boss) hero behind that previous breakthrough in vaccine technology.  Fin is allowed to closely observe McKean's work on the smallpox sample, and this is where a good bit of scientific lingo gets thrown around.  It does nothing to slow the fast pace of the novel down, however, as the author does a great job of distilling the information into easily understood facts and theories.  It soon becomes clear (in the most convincing of ways) that this virus is indeed man-made, and that it has been genetically altered in a way that makes the old smallpox vaccine ineffective against it.  It is, in a word, bioterrorism.<br /><br />McKean is far from your stuffy biomedical genius, as a penchant for bold, heroic adventure leads him (and Fin) headlong into danger - extreme danger.  The terrorists behind the virus outbreak are somewhat stereotypical Arabs, but their devotion to their cause makes for an enervating injection of drama into the story.  The story comes down to a race against time to develop a synthetic vaccine for the virus and to bring to justice the Sheikh responsible for unleashing an attack intended to wipe out the United States population.  Throw in an exotic love interest, the complicity of several traitorous law enforcement officials, and the most severe of handicaps for the brilliant Dr. McKean's work, and you have a rip-roaring story that builds in suspense and excitement as the virus spreads and time draws ever shorter.<br /><br />This is by no means a gloom and doom novel, as there is a surprising amount of comedy in these pages.  This might seem to be incongruous to the subject matter, but humor can be an effective way of dealing with times of crisis.  There's plenty of hero-type adventure, as well, as McKean and Morton go out in search of the terrorists while McKean's able assistants do the necessary leg work in preparing a vaccine.  One or two of the pieces to the puzzle seem to drop into the main characters' laps, but this fact does little to take anything away from this well-written scientific thriller.  Several plot twists along the way keep the story fresh and thrilling, turning this scientific bioterrorism thriller into an adrenaline-pumping heroic epic.the puzzle seem to drop into the main characters' laps, but this fact does little to take anything away from this well-written scientific thriller.  Several plot twists along the way keep the story fresh and thrilling, turning this scientific bioterrorism thriller into an adrenaline-pumping heroic epic.	2004-10-04
509299:US	53016962	R5IO6LINXT8DN	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	47	54	N	Y	The title says it all, more effectively than I expected	I imagine that many folks on both sides of the political divide will agree with me when I say the upcoming 2004 election may be the most important Presidential election in American history - I believe the very future of America hangs in the balance.  The American electorate needs to know who John Kerry really is.  You can't get such information from the candidate himself, as he rewrites his own history every morning.  Since the candidate has made his military service in Vietnam the centerpiece of his campaign, we should do as he asks and examine his record very closely.  That is exactly what the Swift Boat Veterans have done, in significant numbers.  Many of these men served with John Kerry and witnessed many incidents that called his honor and integrity into question, and they (along with countless other Vietnam veterans) were sickened by Kerry's antiwar claims that they were all war criminals who committed atrocities daily.  Anyone who reads this book will clearly see abundant reasons for these men to question Kerry's ability or right to serve as Commander-in-Chief.  The Swift Boat Vets attack Kerry not out of personal vindictiveness (after all, they have silently seethed with anger at his actions for over thirty years) but out of a sense of duty to the country they served at war abroad and continue to serve at home today.<br /><br />This book would never have been written had John Kerry taken the simple step of releasing all of his military records - the questions raised here about Kerry's conduct, service, and medals would likely find ready answers in those secret documents.  Kerry himself sidesteps these questions to whine about his honor and integrity being unjustly attacked whenever you ask him a question about the very subject he asks the American people to examine.  John Kerry's service to his country was an honorable thing, but the evidence offered in this book by a myriad of military soldiers and officers indicates that his conduct was less than becoming of an officer.  Kerry's accounts differ greatly from the accounts of these Swift Boat Veterans, especially in terms of the three Purple Hearts Kerry received for very minor wounds very likely caused by his own hand.  Many of these discrepancies are already well known by the American people.  These are all valid questions that take up the first half of this book, but the most important subject the authors address is Kerry's anti-war activity back home.<br /><br />My stomach churns to read the outrageous testimony of John Kerry regarding war crimes and atrocities committed by his fellows in Vietnam; I can't begin to imagine just how angry Vietnam veterans must be over these absurd charges put forth with no supporting evidence by Kerry.  We now know that a number of the \\"veterans\\" making such charges in conjunction with the Vietnam Veterans Against the War simply made things up and that some of them never actually served in Vietnam.  I am dumbfounded at the fact that this anti-war partisan is now posing as a war hero, especially given the clumsiness of Kerry's retreat from his protest activities to the time in which he realized his VVAW history had become a hindrance to his political aspirations.  Kerry has told different accounts of numerous stories over the years.  He threw his medals away, and then he didn't.  He was not present at the infamous Kansas City meeting in which a policy of assassinating pro-war American senators was not only discussed but voted upon, and then he was - but he didn't remember anything about it.  The list of Kerry's disturbing anti-war activities and his own changing accounts of them over the years is a long one - you can read all about it in these pages.<br /><br />To me, the crux of the matter, one made perfectly clear in this book, is Kerry's treasonous behavior.  By making outrageous claims of war crimes against his Vietnam brethren, he basically espoused the Communist line and became a hero to the North Vietnamese leaders.  Numerous prisoners of war were forced to hear Kerry's assertions that they were war criminals; aiding and abetting the enemy barely begins to address such treachery.  Kerry associated with groups affiliated with the Communist Party, as well - look no further than the VVAW's Al Hubbard (who also lied about serving in Vietnam).  He is even memorialized with a photo in the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City.  He attended a meeting in which a plot to assassinate American leaders was discussed, yet he never dutifully reported this to the authorities (or even admitted being there until the media proved that he was).  Worst of all, he met with representatives of the North Vietnamese government and the Viet Cong in Paris on at least one occasion (while he served in the Naval Reserves, no less) - this, I would argue, is absolute treason.<br /><br />Obviously, the reviews of this important book will come down along partisan lines, but I would just ask anyone with an open mind to read this book for yourself.  I don't see how any American, even the most partisan of Democrats, could possibly study the evidence of Kerry's conduct during and after the war and still think him worthy of being the Commander-in-Chief.  Just as he demoralized Vietnam veterans over 30 years ago, he is demoralizing our brave troops in the field today.  Let me close with this telling comment: John Kerry called Ho Chi Minh the George Washington of Vietnam.rous prisoners of war were forced to hear Kerry's assertions that they were war criminals; aiding and abetting the enemy barely begins to address such treachery.  Kerry associated with groups affiliated with the Communist Party, as well - look no further than the VVAW's Al Hubbard (who also lied about serving in Vietnam).  He is even memorialized with a photo in the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City.  He attended a meeting in which a plot to assassinate American leaders was discussed, yet he never dutifully reported this to the authorities (or even admitted being there until the media proved that he was).  Worst of all, he met with representatives of the North Vietnamese government and the Viet Cong in Paris on at least one occasion (while he served in the Naval Reserves, no less) - this, I would argue, is absolute treason.   <br /> <br />Obviously, the reviews of this important book will come down along partisan lines, but I would just ask anyone with an open mind to read this book for yourself.  I don't see how any American, even the most partisan of Democrats, could possibly study the evidence of Kerry's conduct during and after the war and still think him worthy of being the Commander-in-Chief.  Just as he demoralized Vietnam veterans over 30 years ago, he is demoralizing our brave troops in the field today.  Let me close with this telling comment: John Kerry called Ho Chi Minh the George Washington of Vietnam.	2004-09-26
511379:US	53016962	R25UC49PWN9MKB	0595323227	121401354	Fredericksburg: Squandered Courage and Uncertain Allegiance	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This outstanding novel truly makes history come alive	Historical fiction can be a tricky proposition, but when it is done right, it has the power to make history come alive in ways no textbook or academic monograph ever could.  In the novel Fredericksburg: Squandered Courage and Uncertain Allegiance, Wyatt Kingseed has done it right; in fact, I don't know if anyone has ever done it better.  For starters, and this is very important, he knows his history of the War Between the States; having published numerous articles in historical publications such as American History and America's Civil War, his credentials in this regard are impressive.  He is also an extremely talented writer who truly captures the essence of the men on both sides who led, fought, and died in the war.<br /><br />In terms of the chronology, the battle of Fredericksburg took place in December 1862, a few months after the bloody aftermath of Antietam.  Lincoln, once again chagrined by General McClellan's reluctance to take advantage of his opportunities, has replaced him with General Ambrose Burnside.  It is a precarious time for the nation and the Army of the Potomac - and for Abraham Lincoln.  Many Northerners, especially the Radical Republicans in Congress, voice their doubts over Lincoln's capacity to oversee the war and lead the nation to victory.  The Emancipation Proclamation has just been signed, yet the Radicals do not think the measure goes far enough; at the same time, Lincoln fears the Proclamation may be shot down before it is implemented unless his Army can give him a victory in the coming days.  I don't think I'm giving anything away when I say that Fredericksburg proved to be a thorough military disaster for the North.  In these pages, the reader is privy to the political machinations in Washington that threatened to weaken if not destroy Abraham Lincoln and Secretary of War Stanton during the crucial days of late 1862 - and this is an aspect of Lincoln's Presidency that traditionally receives far too little attention.<br /><br />General Burnside is truly a tragic figure (and the fact that Kingseed can make me feel true pity for a Union general proves just how talented a writer he is).  Although Lincoln and Stanton gave him command over the Army of the Potomac, neither had much confidence in him or his abilities; the generals serving under him, especially the brash and opportunistic Hooker, considered him incompetent, and the soldiers under his command still resented the dismissal of the popular McClellan.  Burnside also has little confidence in his own abilities, yet he comes up with a plan to strike Robert E. Lee and the Confederate Army a crippling blow.  He plans to move his 120,000 men to Fredericksburg and surprise the enemy there, before General Lee has time to react and shift his defensive forces.  Victory would put Richmond in Burnside's sights.  The plan might have worked, but Confederate spies get this information to Lee fairly quickly and, once Burnside's force is in position to cross the river, the skies open up and mire the Army of the Potomac down for days in the muck and mire; to make matters worse, the pontoons needed for crossing the river arrive much too late.  Days pass as Burnside's indecision precludes any move whatsoever; meanwhile, on the other side, Lee's forces hunker down and fortify their positions.  When Burnside does formulate his strategy, it is a recipe for disaster.  Thousands of soldiers fall in a doomed attempt to take an impregnable hill, while Confederate forces on all sides make mincemeat of their Northern attackers.<br /><br />The soldier's experience is revealed through several minor but important characters on both sides.  The plight of the Union soldier, thrust into a fight he cannot possibly win, truly brings home the horrors of war.  That horror is also revealed in the form of a most unusual young woman.  Emily Foster swore revenge on the Yankees when Union soldiers burned her home and killed her father in cold blood; she voluntarily went to work as a spy in Washington, extracting important information from officers entranced by her charms.  In the face of discovery, she escapes the city by signing up as a nurse, and her experiences among the wounded Yankee soldiers of Fredericksburg force upon her a change of heart.  The human tragedy is revealed most strongly in the forms of the dead and maimed boys caught up in a senseless war, and the sight of so much blood and anguish douses much of the hatred in her heart.<br /><br />I feel as if I have barely skimmed the surface of this novel in my review.  Kingseed seamlessly interweaves the strategic realities of the historic battle and the human horrors of war with the political machinations of power-hungry men (in the government as well as the Army) to present a comprehensive look at the battle of Fredericksburg on numerous levels.  We experience the fight alongside the soldiers on both sides and are touched by rare moments of humanity in the midst of man's ultimate inhumanity to man.  We survey the field alongside Lee and Jackson as the Union forces walk right into a deadly trap of their design.  We marvel at the ineptitude of the tragic General Burnside and the lack of cohesion and central authority in the ranks of the Army of the Potomac.  We bristle at the treachery of men such as Salmon Chase and the Radical Republicans, and then watch in awe as Lincoln thwarts their insidious plans by means of his vintage political acumen.<br /><br />Wyatt Kingseed has truly captured the essence of this critical  period in the history of the War Between the States.  The complexities of this novel are remarkable to behold, and Kingseed never allows any facet of the convoluted story to fall by the wayside.  I daresay you will learn more about the battle of Fredericksburg and its larger significance from this impressive novel than you will from the pages of most history books.rk as a spy in Washington, extracting important information from officers entranced by her charms.  In the face of discovery, she escapes the city by signing up as a nurse, and her experiences among the wounded Yankee soldiers of Fredericksburg force upon her a change of heart.  The human tragedy is revealed most strongly in the forms of the dead and maimed boys caught up in a senseless war, and the sight of so much blood and anguish douses much of the hatred in her heart.  <br /> <br />I feel as if I have barely skimmed the surface of this novel in my review.  Kingseed seamlessly interweaves the strategic realities of the historic battle and the human horrors of war with the political machinations of power-hungry men (in the government as well as the Army) to present a comprehensive look at the battle of Fredericksburg on numerous levels.  We experience the fight alongside the soldiers on both sides and are touched by rare moments of humanity in the midst of man's ultimate inhumanity to man.  We survey the field alongside Lee and Jackson as the Union forces walk right into a deadly trap of their design.  We marvel at the ineptitude of the tragic General Burnside and the lack of cohesion and central authority in the ranks of the Army of the Potomac.  We bristle at the treachery of men such as Salmon Chase and the Radical Republicans, and then watch in awe as Lincoln thwarts their insidious plans by means of his vintage political acumen.   <br /> <br />Wyatt Kingseed has truly captured the essence of this critical  period in the history of the War Between the States.  The complexities of this novel are remarkable to behold, and Kingseed never allows any facet of the convoluted story to fall by the wayside.  I daresay you will learn more about the battle of Fredericksburg and its larger significance from this impressive novel than you will from the pages of most history books.	2004-09-24
515369:US	53016962	R8YJSSDBT2UD4	0966741714	145225305	The Totally Unauthorized Microsoft Joke Book	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A little humor at the expense of a very, very rich man	Most of us have heard enough Microsoft jokes to know that you could fill a book with them; Tim Barry actually did it.  The book, first published in 1999, was successful enough that he came out with this second edition three years later, adding some new jokes and tweaking others to fit them more readily into the new cultural environment (post-Y2K, a new Presidential administration, etc.).  The preface says this book is 15% larger than the first edition and that 70% of the material is either new or has been updated.  Thus, for those who enjoyed the first edition, there is certainly good reason to buy the second edition.  Discounting superfluous pages at the front and back, we're talking about 100 pages of jokes here.<br /><br />You will almost surely have heard some of these jokes before - one case in point would be the fake news release stating that the viruses that cause hoof and mouth and mad cow disease are the first two viruses discovered that do not actually spread via Microsoft Outlook.  You'll find plenty of Bill Gates at the Pearly Gates jokes; all sorts of silly riddles; haikus devoted to Microsoft and its products; top ten lists; a lot of jokes about ineffective technical support and bug-ridden software; and numerous references to Gates' attempts to take over the world.  In case you don't recognize some of the names found in the jokes (such as those of some Microsoft competitors), there's a list and description of \\"Dramatis Personae\\" at the end of the book.  Finally, \\"by popular demand,\\" you get a bonus chapter of 101 light bulb jokes.  I found this is a rather inexplicable addition to the book - first of all, only a handful of these jokes have any relationship to Microsoft, and second of all, how many people would possibly demand the addition of exceedingly silly light bulb jokes to anybody anywhere at any time?<br /><br />Frankly, I didn't find a lot of humor in these jokes - I should note, though, that those I enjoyed the most were ones I had already heard.  Laughter doesn't come to me as naturally as it does to some people, and I haven't learned to thoroughly hate Microsoft yet (although I'm making progress), so I'm sure many will find this book funnier than I did.  Those who think Bill Gates is evil personified will, of course, love every minute of it.dy heard.  Laughter doesn't come to me as naturally as it does to some people, and I haven't learned to thoroughly hate Microsoft yet (although I'm making progress), so I'm sure many will find this book funnier than I did.  Those who think Bill Gates is evil personified will, of course, love every minute of it.	2004-09-20
520880:US	53016962	R1K52GDTGDR767	1931768390	533195226	Vanessa - All Heaven Breaks Loose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Takes the Vanessa series to a whole new level	David L. Howells takes his story of the ghost-assisting Fitzgalen Family to a whole new level in this third book of his fascinating Vanessa series, giving Vanessa: All Heaven Breaks Loose a complexity and intellectual depth far surpassing that of its predecessors.  The first book, Vanessa, focused primarily on a specific event wherein a number of Civil War-era ghosts  were assisted by the Family in crossing over to the spiritual realm; Vanessa: Family Tree dealt with the aftermath of the stunning events of the first book as well as another confrontation with a troubled spirit.  While there are a few ghost-assisting missions described in this third book, one of which raises troubling implications of an afterlife of punishment for certain troubled souls, the heart of the story centers around the ethical and moral implications of the work the Fitzgalen Family is doing.  With two ghost-assisting interventions already broadcast worldwide, the reality of the group's work cannot but be expected to raise hackles among religious leaders suddenly having to field all manner of questions from confused churchgoers.<br /><br />The country's most powerful trio of churches sends representatives to meet with the Fitzgalen Family, each representative having been given his own special agenda by the leader of his respective church.  Proof of the ghostly presence of Vanessa, the spiritual matriarch of the group, and the deceased lawyer Gustaf are sought and received, and potential conflict is turned into an unusual camaraderie as the religious representatives suddenly begin to rethink their own beliefs.  Flexible thinking is not so forthcoming from the heads of the respective churches; one leader in particular is convinced that the Family is doing Satan's work and that the mysterious Ryan, of which almost nothing is known, may in fact be the Antichrist.  In the terms of his beliefs, action must be taken immediately.  The Family has meanwhile returned to Milledgeville, the setting of the first novel, to witness the marriage of two Family members and to bury the physical remains of a fallen comrade.  Vanessa has secret plans of her own that are not revealed until the later stages of the tale; I did not care particularly for how this part of the novel played out, but its significance cannot be questioned.<br /><br />The conclusion of this novel is action-packed and nothing short of shocking, striking a tone unlike anything encountered in Howells' earlier novels.  The entire Fitzgalen Family finds itself in grave peril, as a Christian paramilitary group sets its sights on eliminating what they believe to be the Antichrist and his demonic followers.  There are no real bad guys, as both sides fight for their own version of the Good, but the end result of the holy battle will change not only the Fitzgalen Family, but also organized religion and, to some degree, the very world itself.<br /><br />Howells bravely injects a certain amount of religion into this third novel.  I personally do not agree with the type of theology that takes form here, one in which men and women of all religions are eligible for salvation, nor with the relative ease with which several Christian ministers in the novel seemingly turn away from their most innate beliefs and teachings, but this does not take away from my enjoyment of the novel.  I hesitate to even bring this rather minor theological issue up, as I do not want to turn anyone away from such a fascinating book, but I think potential readers, particularly those of a fundamentalist Christian strain of mind, should be aware of this important element of the novel.<br /><br />Whatever your personal religious beliefs, though, Vanessa: All Heaven Breaks Loose is a stimulating novel full of goodness, humor, heroism, tragedy, and redemption.  There are still some unpolished elements to the narrative alongside spots of artificial dialogue, but overall I found this to be a much more impressive novel than Howells' preceding ones.  The ever-growing number of principal characters borders on the unwieldy, but Howells knows how to tell a good story, and any stray moments of narrative weakness seem to be due to overenthusiasm on his part and, as such, do little harm to what is really a quite fascinating, unique, and far-reaching story.eceding ones.  The ever-growing number of principal characters borders on the unwieldy, but Howells knows how to tell a good story, and any stray moments of narrative weakness seem to be due to overenthusiasm on his part and, as such, do little harm to what is really a quite fascinating, unique, and far-reaching story.	2004-09-15
523633:US	53016962	R2D00SKC2J5FBA	0595316808	139504047	A Song From An Empty Forest: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A powerful, emotional story sure to touch your heart	We may not like to think about it, but there are untold numbers of people, especially young people, living lives of quiet desperation out there.  We do need to think about it, though, and that is why books such as Kathleen Ann Anderson's A Song From an Empty Forest are such worthwhile reads.  I confess I don't read a lot of books like this, partly because - behind my obsession with horror, science fiction, and fantasy - I'm actually a pretty sensitive guy, and I find it emotionally painful to read about good people trapped in unfortunate situations.  I'm glad I read this novel, though, as it helped to reawaken a sense of my own humanity and inspired me in the form of the protagonist's commitment to goodness in a world that had little goodness to share with her.<br /><br />It is 1957, and Emily Rezell is not yet eighteen when she decides she must leave her Grandfather's farm forever.  It is a farm she has barely set foot away from in all of her life, as she has been kept there to take care of her hateful Grandfather.  She lost her parents when she was a baby, and her grandmother died when she was three; since then, she has basically been alone and trapped.  Her great-aunt had secretly taught her to read, though, and Emily has put her dreams to paper in the form of stories; this scrapbook is really all she has - until, one winter day, her sickly great-aunt advises her to run away and tells her where she can find a silver bar to help pay her way and a necklace that had been in the family for years.  After that great-aunt dies, Emily puts her plan into motion, only to have everything discovered by Frank, a man who has grossly mistreated her all her life.  Forced to defend herself from Frank's unwanted demands, she puts an end to his licentious crimes for good.<br /><br />Finally managing to get away, Emily heads for San Francisco, hoping to find a former friend of her mother's.  She is naturally quite nave, having never traveled anywhere at all, and the fright and guilt driven into her heart back at home in Illinois remains a heavy burden on her spirit.  She meets a nice man on the train out west, the first person to ever make her feel like a real person, but she is completely alone when she reaches San Francisco.  A waitress discovers her predicament, upbraids her for her foolishness, and \\"helps\\" her by finding her a place to stay.  Now just about anyone would know what kind of place this is immediately, but poor Emily, once she figures it out, feels she has no option but to stay, having been robbed of her few small treasures by that time.  Oddly enough, though, she soon gets a nanny position in a rich man's house, and she comes to love the two youngsters in her charge.  As you might expect, though, her new boss is not exactly of humanitarian of the year caliber, and he controls her by way of his knowledge of the arrest warrant out for her back in Illinois.  She may have a nice bed to sleep in now, but Emily finds herself in increasing danger as she begins to work out the true nature of her employer's dealings.<br /><br />Thankfully, some good things finally begin to happen for Emily before the novel closes, but these come at great cost and actually lead to further trials for this unfortunate young lady.  Through it all, she never loses that wholesome spirit that makes her such a wonderful character.  The author actually surprised me with a few revelations in the closing chapters, and she does a wonderful job of bringing this novel to a close without letting the story devolve into a sort of sappiness that might have robbed it of its full effect.  This is a wonderful book that is far more complicated than it might seem at first glance.  I'm not sure the author communicated her themes as effectively as she might have, especially those involving the abuse Emily experienced for so many years back on the farm, and the race relations in the story come across as simpler than I would expect for the setting of the late 1950s, but A SongFrom an Empty Forest is still a very powerful emotional story that definitely touched my heart in a special way.A Song From an Empty Forest is still a very powerful emotional story that definitely touched my heart in a special way.	2004-09-13
525181:US	53016962	R1L7H5O8PVBCR	0963010484	928509987	Excelsior	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rich, complex, stunningly impressive science fiction	The incredibly high quality of some self-published novels is really amazing - and Excelsior, Michael Paul's thrilling debut novel - is certainly a case in point.  This novel is - in a word - brilliant, filled with intrigue, excitement, romance, science, politics, heroism, and so much more.  It has enough plot material to fill several books, but Paul has wonderfully crafted everything together in one tight package that keeps the reader completely mesmerized at all times.  Just look at everything going on in this futuristic thriller set in the year 2035: a bio-terrorist threat specifically targeting the population of China, the proposed building of domed habitats to protect society from future cataclysms, the black market cloning of women for lives as sex slaves, a potential catastrophe onboard a magnificent, luxurious space station, the sabotage of deep space vehicles, the increasing likelihood of war between the United States and China, and all of the diplomatic maneuvering that goes on behind the scenes to avoid a global nuclear conflict.  Don't worry that Michael Paul is overextending himself in constructing such a complex plot, as he exerts an almost magical control over everything taking place - and he brings it all together for a real page-turner of an ending.<br /><br />The protagonist of the novel is Miles Cash, a super-wealthy industrialist who is determined to finance and build a major domed city in the desert, the first of hopefully many such refuges that can protect humanity from worsening climactic conditions and the vagaries of evil men.  He holds a big meeting with potential investors in the fancy Reston Heaven hotel on the space station Excelsior, but the trip also has a personal agenda.  On former visits, Cash has become smitten with Custom Services employee Leena Dodd, a woman who happens to be a clone raised to be a highly-skilled call girl.  She is in fact a product of an illicit sex slave cloning industry run out of Bangkok.  Cash commits himself to \\"rescue\\" Leena and take her back to earth with him no matter what.  While all of this is going on, the Secretary of State of the United States is presented with an accusation by the Chinese ambassador that the US is developing a biological weapon aimed at wiping out the Chinese people, setting off an urgent series of secret intelligence meetings.  As it turns out, this farcical charge may have an element of truth to it, as a rogue element of rabidly anti-Chinese individuals may indeed have both the will and the capacity to make and unleash just such a weapon.  Miles Cash himself supplies important information about the possibilities of such a weapon, putting his own life in danger, but his main concerns remain the building of his domed city (the importance of which is only reinforced by the budding threat of biological and nuclear war) and the rescue of Leena from Excelsior.  The space station eventually finds itself at the crux of events, as the Chinese refuse to sit idly by and let themselves be attacked by a weapon of potentially mass destruction.<br /><br />The above paragraph barely begins to describe the plot of this novel.  While the time spent following the sex slave cloning magnate tends to drag a tiny bit at times, the rest of the novel moves ahead on full thrusters all the way.  Each aspect of the plot is fascinating in and of itself, especially the political maneuvering that takes place inside the American government, but the culminating events onboard Excelsior are charged with pure, heart-pumping adrenaline.  All of the main players themselves are wonderfully developed, with all sorts of memorable nuances to their characters that make them unforgettable and amazingly human.  The whole society of 2035 is also richly developed, allowing the reader to immerse himself/herself in a full-scale futuristic universe.  By the mid-point of this novel, I was thoroughly engrossed and just kept turning page after page in a relentless effort to find out how everything played out.  Honestly, this is one of the most exciting and fast-paced science fiction novels I have ever read, and I may in fact be doing the book a disservice by referring to it as science fiction because the action actually touches upon a number of thrilling genres.<br /><br />The prescience of the events chronicled in this novel are so poignant that the author felt compelled to add an afterword, fearing that some readers might have the impression that he was exploiting recent tragedies for his own gain - the fact is that several eerily similar events to those described here actually took place mere months after relevant sections of the novel had been written.  These sorts of real-world coincidences only reinforce the very important truths and dangers given such careful, caring attention by Michael Paul and declare Excelsior not only an impressively thrilling read but an important one as well.everything played out.  Honestly, this is one of the most exciting and fast-paced science fiction novels I have ever read, and I may in fact be doing the book a disservice by referring to it as science fiction because the action actually touches upon a number of thrilling genres.   <br /> <br />The prescience of the events chronicled in this novel are so poignant that the author felt compelled to add an afterword, fearing that some readers might have the impression that he was exploiting recent tragedies for his own gain - the fact is that several eerily similar events to those described here actually took place mere months after relevant sections of the novel had been written.  These sorts of real-world coincidences only reinforce the very important truths and dangers given such careful, caring attention by Michael Paul and declare Excelsior not only an impressively thrilling read but an important one as well.	2004-09-11
528892:US	53016962	R1OMK94SC44Y5N	0517432471	745610851	Masterpieces of Tutankhamun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A close-up look at a number of Tutankhamun's treasures	This coffee table-sized book presents a number of the treasures from Tutankhamun's tomb in all of their (two-dimensional) glory.  There are 73 full-color, full-page photographs of artifacts and treasures, each one accompanied by an in-depth commentary by David P. Silverman.  Along with objects that toured the world as part of the King Tutankhamun exhibition are a number of artifacts too large or delicate to be included in that famous exhibition.  Silverman also includes a handful of objects that relate to but are not among the artifacts from King Tutankhamun's tomb.  The gorgeous photographs include statues, exquisite pieces of jewelry, busts, thrones, game boards, unguent jars, beds, cabinets, miniatures of coffins, and a myriad of other objects, with the collection culminating, of course, in the Golden Mask of Tutankhamun itself.<br /><br />Silverman provides a lot of detail in his commentaries for each object, and I must admit the writing got rather dry at times, especially since I often could not make out whatever small aspects he often referred to on the individual pieces.  Those with a deeper appreciation for the ancient arts and techniques should find the written details a wonderful source of information, however.  Silverman does one thing particularly well - he identifies the varied influences behind much of the artwork.  While much of the work was traditional and iconographic, definite traces of a more naturalistic style also appear.  This reinforces the importance of King Tutankhamun in history, as it was the young king who restored the ancient gods and goddesses rejected by his predecessor Akhenaton; elements of the naturalistic, more expressionistic type of artwork from the period of Akhenaton's controversial reign, though, remained.<br /><br />Although Silverman tells us where each individual piece was found in the tomb itself, it can be hard to get a real sense of that location because no photographs of the tomb as it was first seen after some 3000 years are included.  If you want detail about individual pieces, though, Masterpieces of Tutankhamun is definitely worth a look.00 years are included.  If you want detail about individual pieces, though, Masterpieces of Tutankhamun is definitely worth a look.	2004-09-08
530167:US	53016962	R1OCG0DJ7XZ0GC	0930790014	638973681	Behind the Sealed Door: The Discovery of the Tomb and Treasures of Tutankhamun	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Experience the majesty of Tut's tomb in both word and photos	This book is sometimes identified as a book for young people, but I think it is a perfect book for young and old alike.  After all, the wonders of King Tut have thrilled one generation after another of youngsters since the remarkable find in 1922, and that thrill rarely dies as one grows older.  Behind the Sealed Door: The Discovery of the Tomb and Treasures of Tutankhamun is a magnificent book.  Irene and Laurence Swinburne wrote a short narrative of the amazing discovery as it progressed under the watchful eye of archaeologist Howard Carter, but one is most impressed by the numerous photographs lavishly decorating virtually every page of the book.  There are more than 100 photographs in all of the tomb and its priceless treasures, many of them taken by photographer Harry Burton.  Of these, 42 are full-color photographs of indescribably beautiful artifacts that lay buried in the sands of the Egyptian desert for over 3300 years.  There are wide shots showing the appearance of parts of the tomb as Howard Carter first saw them as well as close-up photographs of particularly gorgeous artifacts.  You also get a mylar insert of the coffins and mummy (which I, unfortunately, was not able to examine because my library made it impossible to remove the insert without basically tearing the book apart).<br /><br />The Swinburnes do a wonderful job of summarizing the process of the archaeological mission and the pain-staking work of removing the artifacts with extreme care, pointing out that it took a good five years of seasonal work to accomplish everything.  They do not, however, give as much attention as I would like to the fact that Howard Carter oftentimes had to secure the site and walk away for months on end before he could return and continue exploring his incredible find the following dig season; that must have been terribly hard to do.  The narrative effectively captures the rapture and wonder experienced by Carter and those around him as they made one incredible discovery after another in the tomb complex.  Somewhat to my surprise, however, the \\"curse\\" is not mentioned in any way, shape, or form (although the death of Lord Carnarvon is addressed briefly).  Obviously, the artifacts, treasures, and mummy of King Tutankhamun are the central theme of the book.<br /><br />Behind the Sealed Door is as close as any reader can come to experiencing the historical importance and awe-inspiring majesty of Howard Carter's remarkable find.  The photographs speak for themselves, and the short narrative contributes greatly to the overall presentation, presenting a number of facts that are not widely known about the discovery process.  This is a wonderful book for those already fascinated with the Egyptian civilization, and it makes for a fantastic introduction to the wonders of King Tut's tomb for those yet to explore the tantalizing secrets of Ancient Egypt.discovery after another in the tomb complex.  Somewhat to my surprise, however, the \\"curse\\" is not mentioned in any way, shape, or form (although the death of Lord Carnarvon is addressed briefly).  Obviously, the artifacts, treasures, and mummy of King Tutankhamun are the central theme of the book.   <br /> <br />Behind the Sealed Door is as close as any reader can come to experiencing the historical importance and awe-inspiring majesty of Howard Carter's remarkable find.  The photographs speak for themselves, and the short narrative contributes greatly to the overall presentation, presenting a number of facts that are not widely known about the discovery process.  This is a wonderful book for those already fascinated with the Egyptian civilization, and it makes for a fantastic introduction to the wonders of King Tut's tomb for those yet to explore the tantalizing secrets of Ancient Egypt.	2004-09-07
532531:US	53016962	R1WH3KY7MG8BOX	0441011144	77347668	The End of All Roads (Outremer, 6)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The final novel in a fabulously literary fantasy series	With The End of All Roads, Chaz Brenchley's distinctively literary Outremer fantasy series comes to a close, answering most if not all of the reader's questions about what has taken place over the course of the six gripping novels.  As this novel opens, the Folded Land of Surayon, an \\"heretical\\" principality in the land of Outremer that has been magically hidden for forty years, is suddenly accessible to outsiders, including the armies that are converging there to destroy the land.  From one side come the Knights Ransomers and the militant brotherhood of Outremer - led by a military zealot, they seek to destroy Surayon for its heretical ways.  From another side come the tentatively united desert tribes of the Sharai.  They seek to reclaim Surayon as a land taken from them decades earlier.  Surayon has no army to speak of, and thus the death toll is writ large across the landscape.<br /><br />The central characters of the Outremer novels are also in Surayon.  This is a strongly character-driven series, so it is almost impossible to really describe the characters just in relation to this last of the six novels.  Julianne, daughter of the King's Shadow, is now married (in name only) to both Imber, a baron of her own people, and to Hasan, the leader of her people's desert enemies.  Marron, the young lad who took the mystical weapon called the Daughter into himself and became the Ghost Walker, now lies in distress after having been touched by evil.  Both Marron and Hasan have been brought to Surayon in hopes of being healed by the princip of the land.  The princip is the grandfather of Elisande, Julianne's loyal companion and the series' most significant tragic hero.  Alongside Marron, as always, is the young but intentionally tribeless Sharai lad named Jemel.  The relationship between the two young men (and there is a physical relationship involved) will be put to the test when Marron finally meets up again with Sieur Anton d'Escrivey, the knight he once served and a man with whom he established an even more controversial relationship.<br /><br />It's difficult to see how everything will play out in this inevitable war that has now begun.  While the Sharai and the Patrics both wish to destroy Surayon for their own reasons, they themselves are bitter enemies and could turn on one another at any time; the Sharai tribes themselves often fight amongst themselves and can only be united under a strong leader such as Hasan, but Hasan has been grievously wounded.  The Ghost Walker would normally be expected to take a role in the fighting, but Marron has sworn to never kill again.  On top of all this, you have a new, unnatural force entering the fray in the form of deadly 'ifrits and the fiendish ghuls they control.  There is much more to this story than just the fighting, however, as the book does not end until final revelations are revealed in Ascariel by the king of Outremer himself, a king who has not been seen for the past forty years.<br /><br />Generally, I thought The End of All Roads made for a pretty satisfying conclusion to a weighty and truly literary series, although I do feel as if a couple of the principal character resolution issues were a bit rushed or minimized.  The Books of Outremer make up a highly unusual fantasy series, one made all the more singular by the ambiguous sexuality of the main characters.  You have Julianne and her two husbands, the homosexual feelings of Marron and Jemel, the disturbing man-love relationship between Marron and Anton d'Escrivey, and poor Elisande's unrequited love for one of the boys.  The distinctive atmosphere of this world is also a magical one with some similarities to what you might find in Arabian Nights.  In this sixth and final book in particular, you have a number of thrilling fight scenes both between and among man and magical beast, but it really is the characters that bring this story to life.  These are not heroes in the traditional sense - just the opposite, in fact, and each of them has done things I highly disapprove of - yet they remain fascinating and strongly sympathetic actors in the outr&eacute; world Brenchley has created for them.  The End of All Roads is a truly fitting conclusion to an extraordinary fantasy series.t, and each of them has done things I highly disapprove of - yet they remain fascinating and strongly sympathetic actors in the outr world Brenchley has created for them.  The End of All Roads is a truly fitting conclusion to an extraordinary fantasy series.	2004-09-04
532819:US	53016962	R1ZNE2KMP2EO04	0756400805	334146334	The Book of Air: Volume Four of the Dragon Quartet	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A much different novel than Dragon Quartet fans expected	The Book of Air is the fourth and final novel in Marjorie B. Kellogg's wonderful Dragon Quartet, and while the ending to this saga may not delight all readers, I found it a fitting end that somewhat defied my expectations (and that is almost always a good thing).  Readers had to wait three years between the third and fourth novels, and the buildup of expectation this caused is a factor, I feel, in the disappointment some fans seem to feel with this concluding volume.  Certainly, things did not really go the way I wanted them to, a couple of plot points seemed a tad clumsy, and the dragon Air defied the very idea of dragonhood on a primal level, but this shows the courage of the writer.  Kellogg let this novel go where the story led her, and while readers are of course the very business of writers (successful ones, anyway), I feel it is more important to place your trust in the story and not in reader expectations.  Thus, what some see as the weaknesses in the novel strike me as strengths.<br /><br />This whole story started long ago - at the very creation of the world, in fact.  Four elemental dragons (Earth, Water, Fire, and Air) were brought into being in order to create the world; their job complete, they went to ground to wait for the end of that world.  Something has gone wrong, however, and the dragons have awoken early.  Separated by centuries, responding to a summons they can not identify, called to a quest they do not understand, and seeking to find each other as the process of remembering begins, they locate their dragon guides and head toward a shared fate that will determine not only the future of mankind but the past as well.  Each book formally introduces us to a new dragon, and now we finally get to meet Air, the most important of the dragons, the one who can supposedly answer all of the questions the other dragons (and we the readers) have about their all-encompassing purpose.<br /><br />Earth awoke in the Germanies of 913, where he met up with 14-year-old Erde as she escaped the castle of her baron father and false charges of witchcraft by an evil, powerful priest; Water appeared on the coast of Africa in 2013 and bonded with N'Doch, a rather troublesome young man with big dreams and a talent for singing; Fire resides in 2213, where he reigns as a god, installing his dragon guide Paia as his high priestess; and Air is missing, reportedly imprisoned by Lord Fire.  Fire, you see, wants nothing to do with this big quest his younger siblings are following.  He is in rebellion against his fellow siblings, and this sets the stage for the exciting action of The Book of Air.  The reader eventually finds himself in a future world that is both real and unreal, but the story comes back full circle to where it all began.  The fate of each character and of the earth itself is a mystery until the very end, and while the ending did not satisfy my own personal desires, it works quite well in my opinion.<br /><br />The real strength of this novel is the wonderful characterization Kellogg brings to the fore.  I am especially fond of young Erde, with whom we have journeyed since the start of the first book, but even the minor players in this grand drama have a real force and personality that comes shining (or burning, in some cases) through the pages.  The different gifts of each dragon make them - well, three of them, anyway, for Air is unlike any dragon you would ever imagine, a fact which seems to bother some fans of the series - incredibly distinct and oftentimes amazingly human characters in their own right.  The Book of Air represents the end of an ambitious series, and I think Kellogg pulled it off quite well - even managing to throw in a pretty big twist I was not expecting at the very end.<br /><br />The theme of environmentalism runs strongly through all four of these novels, particularly this final one.  Nature has gone haywire in each of the respective time periods, and the future has revealed an earth burning up anddying as a result of man's failure to serve as nature's caretaker.  Those with a passion for environmentalism have an extra incentive to read The Book of Air and its three predecessors.rning up and dying as a result of man's failure to serve as nature's caretaker.  Those with a passion for environmentalism have an extra incentive to read The Book of Air and its three predecessors.	2004-09-04
538551:US	53016962	R1GA5RHQO5OQ83	0441009891	925594344	Cretaceous Sea	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Montana Isle gives the term "tourist trap" new meaning	It's pretty much standard practice - if you travel in time, you pretty much have to pay a visit to the dinosaurs.  In the case of Will Hubbell's Cretaceous Sea, the cast of characters has no other choice because the only time coordinates available to them transport them back to the late Cretaceous era.  This isn't standard time travel science fiction, though; in the hands of the author, time travel is more a means to an end than anything else.  The actual journey back in time is surprisingly bland here; you would expect man's first temporal journey to be full of technical jargon and references to all kinds of whatsits and to take on some kind of kaleidoscopic majesty in the telling.  Here, the journey is nothing short of boring.  Time travel itself isn't the real focus of the novel, of course, so it is not really a weakness.  The story really only begins when our party of eight arrive some 65 million years in the past.<br /><br />Peter Green is the mysterious man behind the secret time machine, and he is intent on getting the financial support of a Mr. Moneybags by the name of John Greighton.  Greighton agrees to come along for the temporal ride, seeing the trip to \\"Montana Isle\\" as a vacation to the most exotic resort ever conceived - one which just so happens to exist 65 million years in the past.  He brings along his latest silly, young fianc&eacute; as well as his somewhat estranged daughter Constance.  Green isn't too happy when he learns Constance is coming, so he has an underling hire paleontology graduate student Rick Clements to join the team and, in so doing, keep Constance out of his hair.  Clements is skeptical of the time travel claim, but he can't pass up an opportunity to study live dinosaurs.  Rick, unhappy with the unexpected duties he finds himself providing for the \\"guests,\\" soon begins to figure out that there is something not right about this whole thing - the artificial caves for the rich \\"tourists\\" do not seem to have been constructed by human hand, for instance, and Green's assistant Joe definitely seems to be keeping some important secrets.  After a rocky start, he and Con develop a connection, and she leads him to still more mysterious secrets, in the form of unknown technology, hidden inside the caves.  One such object of seemingly alien design is a set of strange, constantly changing symbols.  Eventually, Rick figures out that it is a clock counting down to nothing less than the K-T event.  The \\"resort\\" is actually an observatory located in extremely close proximity (geographically as well as temporally) to the spot where the giant meteor that killed the dinosaurs crashed to earth - staying on the island means imminent death.<br /><br />The second half of the novel becomes a story of survival in the hardest of ecological times.  In the wake of the meteor crash, Earth's skies are preternaturally darkened for months, the temperature drops to frigid levels, vegetation is devastated by the environmental impact of the meteorite, and wildlife dwindles down to next to nothing.  Small mammals may have survived the end of the Cretaceous Era, but that doesn't mean a twenty-first century man and woman with few supplies can, especially when a few dangerous dinosaur breeds are wandering around with increasingly empty stomachs.  Living in such a devastated world, cut off from everyone and everything you have known (by 65 million years, no less) is tough, but it is here that Will Hubbell's main characters finally begin to shine.<br /><br />As the secrets of Green's time machine are gradually revealed, more and more questions are raised as to the actual origin of the device, the people who built it and their goals, the prospect for Rick and Con ever returning to their own time, and others.  The paradox of traveling back and forth in time only adds additional ambiguity to the mix.  Hubbell is able to engineer a small series of plot shifts as the plot advances toward its conclusion, making up for a few weak spots inthe story and ensuring that Cretaceous Sea comes across as an entertaining, thought-provoking novel.<br /><br />The reader knows from the start that Peter Green is up to no good, and his ambitions turn out to be of a very stereotypical variety.  Actually, all of the secondary characters in the novel are rather weak and shallow, especially John Greighton and his annoying fianc&eacute;.  Only one supporting character possesses enough depth to ever become interesting.  Rick and Con, for their part, are much more agreeable characters - Cretaceous Sea is really their story, and the novel really doesn't begin clicking on all cylinders until the focus is squarely placed on their fight for survival.  Several aspects of the novel could have benefited from more time and attention, but Hubbell does manage to produce a fairly unpredictable ending that works quite well indeed.  There's not enough to Cretaceous Sea to make it a truly impressive science fiction novel, but it is certainly an above-average, wonderfully entertaining piece of writing.retaceous Sea comes across as an entertaining, thought-provoking novel.      The reader knows from the start that Peter Green is up to no good, and his ambitions turn out to be of a very stereotypical variety.  Actually, all of the secondary characters in the novel are rather weak and shallow, especially John Greighton and his annoying fianc.  Only one supporting character possesses enough depth to ever become interesting.  Rick and Con, for their part, are much more agreeable characters - Cretaceous Sea is really their story, and the novel really doesn't begin clicking on all cylinders until the focus is squarely placed on their fight for survival.  Several aspects of the novel could have benefited from more time and attention, but Hubbell does manage to produce a fairly unpredictable ending that works quite well indeed.  There's not enough to Cretaceous Sea to make it a truly impressive science fiction novel, but it is certainly an above-average, wonderfully entertaining piece of writing.	2004-08-30
541039:US	53016962	R3O16V7TED70WT	0882077643	218941399	Life in a fishbowl: A revealing look at 1 Corinthians (SonPower youth publication)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Advice for today's youth on living a proper Christian life	Those who think the Bible is so old and remote that it doesn't really tell us anything about living in the modern world have probably never read 1 Corinthians.  Written by Paul around 55 AD, 1 Corinthians provides a blueprint for living the Christian life - then as well as now.  Life in a Fishbowl is generally directed toward Christian youth, but it contains abundant lessons that prove instructive to Christians of all ages.  Tom S. Coke provides a summary of life in Corinth at the time of Paul's letter and shows how surprisingly similar it was to modern life.  Corinth was a bustling urban center where all manner of cultures and religions crossed paths, a place where temptation lay right out there in the open, and a city whose very name would come to be associated with sexual immorality.  Even the Roman Empire associated Corinth with drunkenness.  Paul had spent a year and a half in the city building up a community of Christian believers, and he had enjoyed great success in this particular mission.  After he left, however, the church he had founded soon began turning their eyes away from Jesus.<br /><br />In 1 Corinthians, Paul is castigating the backslidden Christians in Corinth and basically telling them to grow up, for they are very immature spiritually.  There was much that disturbed Paul: Corinthian believers were joining in on pagan feasts to Roman gods, interpreting God's promise of salvation and freedom to mean they could do anything they wanted to do (no matter how perverted), and generally setting a very bad example for those they should be trying to convert.  The real problem lay inside the church.  Cliques had developed, the rich were chastising the poor, the speaking of tongues and certain other \\"gifts\\" were assigned a higher place than the multitude of equally important gifts from God, and different little groups came to think they alone knew how to lead the church.  The Corinthians were even making a mockery of the Lord's Supper.  Paul sought to reinforce the Gospel teachings on the church in Corinth, stressing love and pointing the wayward back toward the cross.<br /><br />Coke details a number of questions that young people are asking (or should be asking) today.  He then points to sections of 1 Corinthians that deal quite effectively with these same sorts of questions.  Thereby he is able to offer instruction to the young Christian in a thoroughly Biblical fashion.  Topics covered include the foolishness of manmade wisdom and arrogance, the proper relationships between men and women, unity and the proper form of leadership, interacting with non-Christian friends and acquaintances, and the recognition and respect for each Christian's God-given gift.  Everything you need to know to live the life of a proper Christian can be found in 1 Corinthians, and Coke has made this important information refreshingly accessible and instructive to modern readers.  Life in a Fishbowl is a blessing waiting to happen for all Christians, especially young ones, who get the chance to read it.force the Gospel teachings on the church in Corinth, stressing love and pointing the wayward back toward the cross.   <br /> <br />Coke details a number of questions that young people are asking (or should be asking) today.  He then points to sections of 1 Corinthians that deal quite effectively with these same sorts of questions.  Thereby he is able to offer instruction to the young Christian in a thoroughly Biblical fashion.  Topics covered include the foolishness of manmade wisdom and arrogance, the proper relationships between men and women, unity and the proper form of leadership, interacting with non-Christian friends and acquaintances, and the recognition and respect for each Christian's God-given gift.  Everything you need to know to live the life of a proper Christian can be found in 1 Corinthians, and Coke has made this important information refreshingly accessible and instructive to modern readers.  Life in a Fishbowl is a blessing waiting to happen for all Christians, especially young ones, who get the chance to read it.	2004-08-28
544782:US	53016962	R1F5VGJNCSORK7	0595218431	368195914	Duck Blood Soup	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A powerfully stunning novel of life-changing potential	Duck Blood Soup is the rarest of novels, one that grabs you by the lapels on page one, shakes you back and forth in an increasingly frenzied manner as you frantically turn one page after another, and leaves you changed by the whole gripping experience.  This is more than just a remarkably good read, however - it is a shocking warning about the dangers of addiction.  Dr. Molea has devoted his life to helping medical doctors and other professionals deal with and overcome the deadly trap of addiction.  Drug addiction among physicians is a subject I have never given a thought to, but it is easy to see how the insane pressures of such a job, particularly in its earliest stages, can lead to such a problem.  Simply saying that drug addiction, especially among doctors, is a terrible, tragic thing makes the point but doesn't cause the true meaning of the words to resonate.  What Molea does in Duck Blood Soup is lock the reader in a literary bear hug, take him on a harrowing descent into the maelstrom of addiction, and deliver a visceral lesson that is impossible to forget.<br /><br />The novel draws from the author's personal experience as well as the experiences of others he has worked with, yet it is unequivocally a work of fiction.  It tells the story of young Dr. Rocky VanSlyke, a resident surgeon with a terrible childhood behind him and a rosy future ahead of him - or so it would appear.  It isn't an easy life by any means.  Rocky has to deal with the incredibly long hours of a resident doctor, the pressure of holding people's lives in his hands every single day, and the stress that comes from dealing with other doctors, nurses, and younger med students; then there's his somewhat dysfunctional relationship with his girlfriend Karla.  Still, he might have made it through this period of his life okay, despite a natural proclivity toward addictive behavior - had he not met Vince.  Vince Buddy holds some kind of vague legal consulting job with the hospital, and he and Rocky soon become pals.  Vince has a problem, and he soon makes it Rocky's problem.  It starts with a few Percocets here and there, something to take the edge off and keep him alert; before long, Rocky is injecting Demerol into his veins and becoming completely addicted, both physically and emotionally.  Vince shows Rocky how easy it is to get the stuff; all it takes is a prescription from young Dr. VanSlyke himself, a judicious choice of pharmacies, and the syringes and paraphernalia Rocky has at his fingertips every day.<br /><br />Things go downhill fast for Rocky, and you are right there with him for the deadly ride.  Molea understands the mindset of the addict, and this is the source of this novel's incredible power.  We see Rocky get deeper and deeper into trouble, watch his self-pledges to give it all up fall away into more and more drug use, shake our head as he continues to rationalize his drug use in the most irrational of manners, even when the cops are ready to pounce on him for his illicit activities and - most disturbingly of all - the very lives of his patients are threatened by his growing incapacity to perform his job.  Even the life-threatening trauma of a Grand Mal seizure does nothing to help Rocky see the light.  Vince is one slick fellow, engineering many an escape for himself and his friendly drug supplier, but the criminal trail of fake prescriptions and drug abuse these two leave behind them is glaringly obvious to all those who look their way with a critical eye.<br /><br />Duck Blood Soup is not an uplifting or comforting read.  Reading about someone, much less a doctor, injecting himself with a narcotic in different parts of his body, adding Percocet, cough syrup, and other drug concoctions to the deadly mix, working with gravely ill and completely vulnerable patients during times of artificial highs and even more frightening withdrawal-borne lows, and proving himself unable to save himself from the brink of absolute ruin makes for a harrowing, sometimes shocking, always disturbing reading experience.  Blood Duck Soup takes you right inside the mind of an addict, and it makes for a read you won't soon forget.  I would say that this novel is addictive in and of itself, but that does not seem apropos given the subject matter.rowing, sometimes shocking, always disturbing reading experience.  Blood Duck Soup takes you right inside the mind of an addict, and it makes for a read you won't soon forget.  I would say that this novel is addictive in and of itself, but that does not seem apropos given the subject matter.	2004-08-24
547620:US	53016962	R27T3114PKV78B	0595313493	154317546	The Servants of Freedom: The SOF	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An impressive, literary window into a fighter pilot's life	The Servants of Freedom is quite a captivating read, proving to be something quite different than what I expected.  Since the author is a former military man writing a novel about military life, I expected a rather efficient, maybe even terse, writing style.  I expected a lot of thrilling activity in the skies, some nail-biting aerial encounters with enemy planes, and a heavy emphasis on action.  What I quickly discovered, though, was a highly literary novel that focuses primarily on the inner workings and thoughts of an engaging, highly personable main character.  It took me a couple of chapters to really get into the book and properly get my bearings, but the novel really captured my imagination and held it from that point on.<br /><br />The Servants of Freedom does not have a standard plot to it.  In most novels, the entire story seems to lead up to some climactic event, with virtually no extraneous material along the way.  That cannot be said of this novel, and that might be a slight weakness.  I was never rewarded with a truly climactic moment; in fact, I found the conclusion rather open-ended.  I wanted a little more elaboration as to what just happened on the final page, yet I cannot say the ending was not well written.  My own feelings actually reinforce the author's skills in developing his characters and making them a vital part of my own life.  I wasn't ready to give up my participation in the lives of these wonderful characters.<br /><br />The novel is set primarily in Germany in 1971.  Troy Pearson has completed all of his flight schooling and now begins his career as an air force pilot with the rank of lieutenant, deploying to Landstuhl Airbase.  We basically accompany him as he settles in for this new phase of his life, taking in details many an author would have taken for granted; it is in these details, though, that Pearson's personality and character are expressed most impressively.  Parris makes great use of military lingo (for which he, most helpfully, provides a glossary of terms and acronyms), putting the reader firmly into the military mindset of his protagonist.  The very night of his arrival, he lives through a bombing at the Officer's Club, an act of terrorism committed by the infamous Baader-Meinhof Gang.  He later survives an armed robbery committed by the same gang of thugs.  His reaction to these life-threatening events seemed a little nonchalant to me, though, and not merely for reasons of stoic military discipline.  I expected this string of terrorist activity to be at the heart of the book's plot, but it eventually seemed to fall away as emphasis shifted almost solely on the mind and feelings of Lt. Pearson.<br /><br />A large part of this story focuses on Pearson's search for companionship, and he seems to have no problems attracting the ladies.  Mere hours after his arrival on base, he begins an exciting and somewhat mysterious relationship with a relatively young army brat, but this relationship that seemed to offer so much intrigue and potential is eventually subsumed by Pearson's almost instant love affair with Airman Cynthia York.  The initial relationship supplied what I expected would be one of the true climaxes of the story, and I was a little disappointed to see what I viewed as an important and perhaps unifying subplot fall by the wayside in the final chapters.  The affair with C.Y. has plenty of climactic potential of its own, as the military frowns upon such affairs between officers and enlisted personnel, and this inspiring story turned out far differently than I expected.  Parris does a masterful job telling the whole story, and it is to his credit that he lets the action play out in an unpredictable manner.<br /><br />The Servants of Freedom provides an intimate look into the life and character of one brave soldier serving his country during a traumatic time in American history - the debilitating effects of the Vietnam Conflict and the overarching specter of the Cold War itselfovershadow everything that Pearson sees and does, as does the threat of terrorism (represented here by the violently socialist objectives of the Baader-Meinhof Gang).  While the amount of goosebump-creating action turns out to be surprisingly low, we are treated to the experience of flying from the pilot's point of view - from the emotional high of taking to the air to the crushing blow of disaster.  The novel covers only a week or so in Pearson's life, but the reader feels as if he knows the character intimately long before the book reaches its conclusion.  This is a surprisingly personal novel that puts you inside the mind of a young pilot encountering the types of dangers that still exist today, years after the Cold War was won.  It is impressive in its scope, highly polished in its literary style, and undeniably captivating.ar itself overshadow everything that Pearson sees and does, as does the threat of terrorism (represented here by the violently socialist objectives of the Baader-Meinhof Gang).  While the amount of goosebump-creating action turns out to be surprisingly low, we are treated to the experience of flying from the pilot's point of view - from the emotional high of taking to the air to the crushing blow of disaster.  The novel covers only a week or so in Pearson's life, but the reader feels as if he knows the character intimately long before the book reaches its conclusion.  This is a surprisingly personal novel that puts you inside the mind of a young pilot encountering the types of dangers that still exist today, years after the Cold War was won.  It is impressive in its scope, highly polished in its literary style, and undeniably captivating.	2004-08-22
548476:US	53016962	R2EDX8JC67QQ9X	0060556609	588608248	The Brother of Jesus: The Dramatic Story & Meaning of the First Archaeological Link to Jesus & His Family	Books	3	16	19	N	N	A problematic discussion of a controversial find	In late 2002, the world learned that the first archaeological link to Jesus Christ may have been discovered in the form of an ossuary, or bone box, bearing the inscription - in Aramaic - \\"James, son of Joseph, brother of Jesus.\\"  At least some experts believed, we were told, that this was indeed the ossuary of James, brother of Jesus and leader of the first Jerusalem church.  Of course, there is plenty of historical evidence for the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus, but no tangible, solid, archaeological evidence had ever been found.  The announcement of this possible link raised two immediate questions: is it really the ossuary of James? and, if so, what is the significance of the find?  This book attempts to address those questions and others of a more theological bent.  Hershel Shanks, well-known writer and editor of Biblical Archaeology Review, describes the discovery of the ossuary and argues for its authenticity, and then Ben Witherington III embarks on a summary of James' life and significance in both Judaism and Christianity, reinterpreting his importance in light of the discovery of the ossuary.<br /><br />The James ossuary is a very controversial find, as you might expect.  Shanks does a good job describing just why it is so controversial, but his attempts to convince the reader that this is indeed the box that once contained the bones of James are less than completely convincing.  There is no provenance for this discovery, as it was obtained by a private collector from the antiquities market - while the owner says he was told it came from the village of Silwan, there is absolutely no way we can know where the box actually came from.  There is a definite bias in the field against unprovenanced discoveries, yet they cannot be ignored - the Dead Sea Scrolls, for example, came to light in this manner.  The evidence that the box dates back to the first century is pretty solid, so we must look primarily at the inscription in order to ascertain its authenticity.  The evidence seems more problematic than Shanks would have us believe.  He does bring up some dissenting opinions, but he basically dismisses all such arguments (or, I should say, arguers) with the mantra \\"they're not paleographers.\\"  Shanks, I might add, is not a paleographer himself; he could in fact be called an amateur in his field.  He does point to a number of paleographers who think the inscription is authentic, but he basically dismisses rather than disproves dissenting opinions.  Then he tries to offer up a statistical argument as to how few men of the era would have been named James, had a father named Joseph, and had a brother named Jesus - this results in a mess that does his argument no good at all.  It's an extremely weak, very questionable argument.  In the end, you basically have Shanks asking readers to take his word - and the word of the experts on his side - for the ossuary's authenticity.  I'm certainly not convinced.<br /><br />Witherington's much longer section on the life and significance of James has its good points but sometimes becomes mired down in theological arguments that would be better left to a separate book.  This book starts out as an attempt to prove the authenticity of the ossuary, but Witherington assumes that authenticity and uses it to open a number of cans of theological worms.  Much of his time is spent debating whether James was in fact Jesus' brother; it is a debate that goes back many, many centuries and to some measure divides the Christian church today.  Catholics believe in the perpetual virginity of Mary, arguing that James and the other \\"brothers\\" mentioned in the Gospels were actually Jesus' cousins.  Those of an Eastern Orthodox persuasion believe the brothers of Jesus were born to Joseph prior to his marriage to Mary.  Protestants believe that Mary and Joseph had several children after the virgin birth of Jesus.  Granted, this is important in terms of the ossuary, as - if it is authentic - it would seem tosupport the Protestant stance.<br /><br />The most interesting (and less contentious) part of Witherington's narrative is his call for a renewed appreciation for the importance of James and the early Jewish Christians of Rome.  James clearly was a bishop-like figure in the early church in Jerusalem, whom both Peter and Paul seemed to defer to.  James became a martyr to the faith, probably in the early 60s, when he was killed for his acceptance of Jesus as the Messiah.  His death offended many Jews, we are told, which is a most informative, important fact.  While he did help mediate the incorporation of Gentiles into the Christian faith, James stayed true to his Jewish beliefs while accepting Jesus as the Messiah, making him a crucial link between Judaism and Christianity.  His importance in the early church was deemphasized as the importance of Peter and Paul grew in the years following his death.  Witherington sees James as a figure who can bring Christians and Jews much closer even today, and this part of his narrative is well presented and very significant.<br /><br />In the end, I think this book has its weaknesses.  It tries to be two things at once, and Witherington's contributions, while important, are weakened by his assumption that the ossuary is authentic, an assumption that I do not think is proven by Shanks' presentation.  The book does feature a foreword by Andre LeMaire, the paleographer who \\"discovered\\" the inscription, studied it minutely, and basically brought the news of the find to the world.  Since Shanks insists that paleographers alone are worthy of determining the authenticity of the inscription, this book would have been greatly helped by an actual written analysis by Lemaire himself.  Certainly, this book is fascinating, but definitive proof of the authenticity of the ossuary (with all the theological implications that would entail) it is not - at least in my own opinion.eem to support the Protestant stance.   <br /> <br />The most interesting (and less contentious) part of Witherington's narrative is his call for a renewed appreciation for the importance of James and the early Jewish Christians of Rome.  James clearly was a bishop-like figure in the early church in Jerusalem, whom both Peter and Paul seemed to defer to.  James became a martyr to the faith, probably in the early 60s, when he was killed for his acceptance of Jesus as the Messiah.  His death offended many Jews, we are told, which is a most informative, important fact.  While he did help mediate the incorporation of Gentiles into the Christian faith, James stayed true to his Jewish beliefs while accepting Jesus as the Messiah, making him a crucial link between Judaism and Christianity.  His importance in the early church was deemphasized as the importance of Peter and Paul grew in the years following his death.  Witherington sees James as a figure who can bring Christians and Jews much closer even today, and this part of his narrative is well presented and very significant.   <br /> <br />In the end, I think this book has its weaknesses.  It tries to be two things at once, and Witherington's contributions, while important, are weakened by his assumption that the ossuary is authentic, an assumption that I do not think is proven by Shanks' presentation.  The book does feature a foreword by Andre LeMaire, the paleographer who \\"discovered\\" the inscription, studied it minutely, and basically brought the news of the find to the world.  Since Shanks insists that paleographers alone are worthy of determining the authenticity of the inscription, this book would have been greatly helped by an actual written analysis by Lemaire himself.  Certainly, this book is fascinating, but definitive proof of the authenticity of the ossuary (with all the theological implications that would entail) it is not - at least in my own opinion.	2004-08-21
552185:US	53016962	R33EYJDD2SQRBR	0570031656	749391879	Wisdom of Paul	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Paul's teachings broken down by subject matter	Maybe you're wondering what the apostle Paul had to say about race relations, baptism, grace by faith as opposed to good works, marriage, or one of any number of different subjects.  It's all in the Bible, of course, but you would need a concordance or some other Bible reference work to pinpoint the location of whatever passage you're interested in.  Wouldn't it be nice and instructive if all of Paul's teachings were collected somewhere and broken down into different categories?  Well, at least one such book exists: The Wisdom of Paul.  Published in 1973, this little book categorizes Paul's instructive writings into more than three dozen subject headings, including The Reality of Christ; Meaning of the Cross; Grace Alone, Faith Alone; Sin and the Law; the Christ-Centered Life; Work and Leisure; Poverty and Riches; Food and Drink; Human Violence; Materialism; Death; the Hereafter; and In Praise of Love.  Each chapter is further broken down into even more specific topics under the given subject.  All of the quotations are taken directly from Paul's New Testament writings.<br /><br />There is a little duplication of Biblical passages at times, as many of Paul's teachings are instructive in a number of important ways, but you'll only notice this if you read the book straight through.  The Wisdom of Paul is perhaps most valuable as a ready resource for quickly finding Paul's thoughts and advice on topics as relevant today as they were two millennia ago.  Only Jesus Christ Himself speaks with more knowledge and authority than Paul on the human condition and the path to forgiveness and grace.  The only issue I have with this book is the fact that most of the quotes are taken from Good News for Modern Man, the New Testament in Today's English Version.  I'm one of those \\"if it ain't King James, it ain't the Bible\\" traditionalists, but the wisdom of Paul easily manifests itself to the reader in any legitimate translation out there (and there are a few passages taken from the King James Version and Revised Standard Version included herein).e King James Version and Revised Standard Version included herein).	2004-08-18
554065:US	53016962	R1N0IBAAMAZALV	0825432707	454407546	He Chose Twelve	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An informative look at the core followers of Jesus	How strange it is that most of us, and I do include myself, can name more of Santa's reindeer than disciples of Jesus.  Peter, James, and John we all know; there's the doubting Thomas; Matthew, Andrew, and Philip will come to the minds of those familiar with the New Testament; Judas Iscariot - of course - lives forever in infamy.  But what of the others: Simon the Zealot; James the Less; Judas \\"the thrice-named\\" (whom Mark called Thaddaeus, Matthew called Lebbaeus Thaddaeus, and Luke called Judas of James); Bartholomew; and Matthias (who replaced Judas Iscariot)?  It must of course be acknowledged that, in the case of a few of these men, the Bible tells us nothing about them apart from their names.  In this study of the men chosen by Jesus to be his disciples, Clarence E. MacArtney endeavors to describe all of these men (as well as James the brother of Jesus, Paul, and John the Baptist); perhaps more importantly, though, he tries to show us valuable lessons that each of them can teach us still today.<br /><br />The more famous of the disciples naturally get a longer treatment in these pages.  None is so well known as Peter; not only are his words and deeds told throughout the Gospels, Acts, and Peter's own letters, his nature is revealed for all to see in his behavior.  MacArtney calls him the most human of the disciples, a natural leader, whose faults and inconsistencies make him the disciple that man can identify with most easily.  He could be rash and impatient, but the Godly zeal that manifested itself within his heart is a model for the kind of religious ardor all of Christ's followers should feel.  The story of Peter's fall and his deep repentance has, MacArtney argues, won more hearts to Christ than the scholarly, loving words of Paul.<br /><br />James and John, the sons of Zebedee, along with Peter, made up an inner core of Christ's followers.  They, also like Peter, could be rash and lash out with religious fury - to call upon Jesus to smite the Samaritans who refused Him hospitality, for example.  It was also they who asked Jesus for seats of honor in the coming kingdom, to the consternation of some of their peers.  The zeal these brothers showed was misdirected at times, but such zeal is a far better thing than indifference, MacArtney states.  Among the disciples, John was known as the most loved of Jesus and may have been the youngest of the group.  James would become the first of the disciples to die (not counting Judas Iscariot), put to death by Herod Agrippas less than two decades after Christ's ascension.<br /><br />MacArtney praises Andrew, for always bringing others to Jesus, starting with his own brother Peter.  The author actually makes Andrew the subject of his first chapter, stressing the fact that the church needs more Andrews in its midst.  Philip merits the same sort of praise; it was he who uttered the familiar words \\"Come and see,\\" when he told Bartholomew (whom the Gospel of John identifies as Nathaniel) that he had met the Messiah.  Bartholomew, for his part, is the only disciple to hesitate upon hearing Jesus' call, asking the famous question as to whether anything good could come from Nazareth.  Yet Bartholomew quickly recognized Jesus as the Son of God after speaking with Him, and his name has been associated with sincerity ever since.  Thomas is known as the doubter, having refused to believe that Jesus had been resurrected disciples until he could see and feel the Man and His wounds for himself.  Thereafter, he became the chief defender of the reality of the Resurrection.  Some consider Thomas a rationalist, but MacArtney points out that Thomas' disbelief was born strictly of sorrow at the loss of Jesus.<br /><br />Judas the thrice-named asked Jesus why He did not show Himself in His full glory to the world - MacArtney makes a lesson of such impatience among the followers of Christ today.  James the Less, Simon the Zealot, Matthew the tax collector, and Matthias show the diverse nature of themen chosen by Jesus as His disciples.  MacArtney shows how everyone can identify with someone among the Twelve and how the Kingdom of God has a place for every sort of man and woman.<br /><br />Judas Iscariot needs no introduction.  MacArtney spends most of this section addressing Judas' crime and crushing guilt, taking the time to argue against the ideas of some that Judas was not as traitorous as many seem to think, pointing to the visible elements of greed, vindictiveness, and thirst for revenge in his nature as revealed in the Gospels.<br /><br />Extending his study to John the Baptist, James the brother of Jesus, and Paul, MacArtney manages to offer an enlightening look at the lives of all the most prominent servants of Christ identified in the New Testament.  He points us to the different backgrounds and natures of these men, offering Christians important models to follow in their own lives.  By bettering our understanding of these men, we also better our understanding of Jesus.ture of the men chosen by Jesus as His disciples.  MacArtney shows how everyone can identify with someone among the Twelve and how the Kingdom of God has a place for every sort of man and woman.   <br /> <br />Judas Iscariot needs no introduction.  MacArtney spends most of this section addressing Judas' crime and crushing guilt, taking the time to argue against the ideas of some that Judas was not as traitorous as many seem to think, pointing to the visible elements of greed, vindictiveness, and thirst for revenge in his nature as revealed in the Gospels.   <br /> <br />Extending his study to John the Baptist, James the brother of Jesus, and Paul, MacArtney manages to offer an enlightening look at the lives of all the most prominent servants of Christ identified in the New Testament.  He points us to the different backgrounds and natures of these men, offering Christians important models to follow in their own lives.  By bettering our understanding of these men, we also better our understanding of Jesus.	2004-08-16
556092:US	53016962	R2VLW2XHUZED8X	0810981742	153219941	Man's Best Friend	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hmmm . . . interesting	I don't pretend to understand modern art, nor did I know the name of either William Wegman or his famous Weimaraner dog Man Ray before coming across this book (and let me say it's pretty hard not to notice a coffee table book with a picture of a dog with elephant tusks and a trunk on the cover).  I just love dogs.  I don't, as a general rule, like to see them dressed up to look silly (although I get a kick out of seeing doggie sweaters and the like), but that is not what is going on here.  Well, Man Ray does look a little silly in a few pictures, but the introductory text of this book of photos makes it clear that Man Ray loved posing for his human and basically begged to be included in Wegman's work from the time he was a puppy.  As for the whole clothing thing, it actually began as a way for Wegman to hide the weight Man Ray put on as he got older - of course, it soon became an object of fascination for the artist.<br /><br />This is not a thick book.  After an introductory text featuring several small black and white photos, the book consists of 24 full-page color prints of Man Ray in different outfits and different poses.  Several of them don't do a lot for me, especially the ones with Man Ray dressed up as an old woman or a bag lady, but there are some very poignant shots here.  I love the one with Man Ray, sporting little horns, seemingly peering out from within the flames of a fireplace.  A photo titled Broken/Hurt is amazing; beautifully shot, the somber expression on the dog's face will draw you right in to the photograph.  Blue Portrait features two touching photos of Man Ray expressing sadness; the expressiveness this dog was able to put forth is really quite amazing.  There are a few somewhat comical shots as well: Brooke has our canine model showing off a new pair of jeans, Frog is guaranteed to get a snicker out of you, and there's an adorable photo of Man Ray and another dog lying in bed watching television.<br /><br />If you love dogs, especially Weimaraners, you might like this book.  Just remember, there isn't much more to it than 24 color photographs and a short introduction.  Man Ray, who died in 1982, did enjoy a fair share of fame in contemporary art for his modeling work, and I would have to say that modern photographic art lovers are much more likely than dog lovers to enjoy Wegman's work.ly Weimaraners, you might like this book.  Just remember, there isn't much more to it than 24 color photographs and a short introduction.  Man Ray, who died in 1982, did enjoy a fair share of fame in contemporary art for his modeling work, and I would have to say that modern photographic art lovers are much more likely than dog lovers to enjoy Wegman's work.	2004-08-14
556648:US	53016962	R3LPFM4JR3RRML	0756401674	907624932	A World Divided: (Darkover Omnibus #5)	Books	5	64	64	N	N	Three classic Darkover novels, including The Bloody Sun	Among all of Marion Zimmer Bradley's impressive body of work, she loved and cherished her Darkover novels and stories above all others.  From the publication of Planet Savers in 1962 until her death in 1999, Bradley published over twenty Darkover novels and a dozen Darkover anthologies.  It is a remarkable series covering six major stages of Darkovan history.  Tragically, many of the Darkover publications have gone out of print over the years; thankfully, in 2002, Daw began publishing special omnibus collections such as this one.  A World Divided consists of three novels: Star of Danger (1965), The Bloody Sun (1965), and The Winds of Darkover (1970).<br /><br />One of the best things about Bradley's Darkover series is the fact that each can book can be read and enjoyed in and of itself; while there is a definite history and chronology of the planet Darkover, the reader does not have to tackle the books in any certain order.  A World Divided gives us an interesting mix: two relatively minor Darkover novels and one major novel of great importance, each of them taking place in an era of great historical change.<br /><br />Star of Danger reads like an exciting juvenile novel, and I believe it serves as an excellent, solid introduction to the planet Darkover.  The book's protagonists are two teenaged boys standing on the cusp of adulthood, natives of two different cultures coming together for the unplanned-for adventure of a lifetime.  The \\"backwards\\" Darkovans do not trust the Terrans, afraid of the type of change Earthmen will bring to their traditional, highly structured society, but Larry Montray, a young Terran new to the planet, is easily mistaken for a native inhabitant.  After striking up a friendship with a young Darkovan aristocrat named Kennard Alton, Montray is given an unprecedented opportunity to spend the summer with the Altons in the countryside.  Larry's great adventure soon becomes a perilous ordeal.  In order to survive, Montray and Kennard must learn from and defer to one another's strengths. Culture clashes are inevitable, but in such a bond of friendship is forged the bridge that may one day unite the competing Terran and Darkovan cultures.<br /><br />The Winds of Darkover shows us a side of the planet rarely explored.  Alienated from the ruling families on Darkover, Loran Storn has no one to call upon for aid when bandits seize the outlying Castle of Storn.  His blindness is a further impediment, and in desperation he seeks out another mind and engineers a rescue mission through that person. The mind he finds is that of a Terran named Dan Barron, and thus in one character we are presented with two unique, fresh viewpoints of Darkovan life - one by the Terran who is journeying into this world for the first time, and the other by the blind Storn aristocrat seeing the world of Darkover for the first time through Barron's eyes.  The winds of change blowing in the realms outside the control of Darkover's ruling families portend the sweeping changes coming to the planet as The First Age of contact with the Terrans draws to a close.<br /><br />The real gem of this omnibus collection is The Bloody Sun, as it basically takes us through the dawning of Darkover's Second Age.  By this time, the influence of the Terran presence in the land has led some Darkovans to question the old ways and to call for a closer relationship with the Terrans. Some of the people believe that the old ways are out-dated and needlessly burdensome, but few in authority have the desire, let alone the courage, to pursue \\"progress.\\"  The true power of the ruling families has long been centralized inside the mysterious Towers that dot the land, but now only the mighty Tower in Arilinn can boast of a full-fledged Keeper, and even this primary Tower's circle is incomplete at the time this novel opens.<br /><br />Raised in the Spacemen's Orphanage on Darkover until he was twelve, Jeff Kerwin spent his next several years on Earth with his Terran father's parents; an outcast on a world not truly his own, he pined for the day he could return to Darkover and learn the truth of his heritage. All he has is the name his Terran father gave him and a matrix jewel of unknown origin. When he begins to search for the history of his earliest years, he is upset to learn that no such records seem to exist. Kerwin knows he is being lied to and manipulated, but he has no idea why. On the brink of deportation from the planet of his birth, a voice beckons him through the jewel he wears, and by following this voice Kerwin finds a new home on Darkover - a home within the very Tower of Arilinn.<br /><br />Thus we get an inside look at the work of the Keepers inside their mysterious Towers. It is a brand new life for Kerwin, accepted into a telepathic circle of power and authority. Ultimately, he carries the burden of knowing that the future direction of Darkover depends on him, as the Tower of Arilinn is put to a test that will determine whether traditional \\"magic\\" or Terran technology will best serve the Darkovan people in the future.<br /><br />Both Star of Danger and The Winds of Darkover are wonderfully evocative, adventure-filled novels painting an illuminating picture of Darkovan culture, but The Bloody Sun is among the most important and significant of Bradley's Darkover novels, showing as it does the inner workings of the last and most important Tower, revealing long-buried secrets reaching all the way back to the turbulent days of The Forbidden Tower, and basically explaining the impetus for one of the most significant cultural evolutions in Darkovan history.  Marion Zimmer Bradley has long been an underappreciated giant in the genres of fantasy and science fiction; no reader's journey through the modern classics is complete without at least one stopover on the planet Darkover.Terran father's parents; an outcast on a world not truly his own, he pined for the day he could return to Darkover and learn the truth of his heritage. All he has is the name his Terran father gave him and a matrix jewel of unknown origin. When he begins to search for the history of his earliest years, he is upset to learn that no such records seem to exist. Kerwin knows he is being lied to and manipulated, but he has no idea why. On the brink of deportation from the planet of his birth, a voice beckons him through the jewel he wears, and by following this voice Kerwin finds a new home on Darkover - a home within the very Tower of Arilinn.  <br /> <br />Thus we get an inside look at the work of the Keepers inside their mysterious Towers. It is a brand new life for Kerwin, accepted into a telepathic circle of power and authority. Ultimately, he carries the burden of knowing that the future direction of Darkover depends on him, as the Tower of Arilinn is put to a test that will determine whether traditional \\"magic\\" or Terran technology will best serve the Darkovan people in the future.  <br /> <br />Both Star of Danger and The Winds of Darkover are wonderfully evocative, adventure-filled novels painting an illuminating picture of Darkovan culture, but The Bloody Sun is among the most important and significant of Bradley's Darkover novels, showing as it does the inner workings of the last and most important Tower, revealing long-buried secrets reaching all the way back to the turbulent days of The Forbidden Tower, and basically explaining the impetus for one of the most significant cultural evolutions in Darkovan history.  Marion Zimmer Bradley has long been an underappreciated giant in the genres of fantasy and science fiction; no reader's journey through the modern classics is complete without at least one stopover on the planet Darkover.	2004-08-14
557873:US	53016962	R10ANY5IFDR05	1878177133	260430095	Ghost Tales from the North Carolina Piedmont	Books	5	4	4	N	N	21 juicy ghost stories from the North Carolina Piedmont	I love ghost stories, and there are some pretty darned good ones in Ghost Tales From the North Carolina Piedmont.  These stories were of particular interest to me because they come from some of my old stomping grounds.  My own section of the western Piedmont was not included, though, as the authors limited themselves to stories originating in the area between Charlotte and the Triangle - thus, the entire North Carolina Piedmont is not represented here.  That is the only complaint I have about a wonderful collection of unnerving hauntings.<br /><br />Most of these stories have never been published in book form before, but there are also a few familiar classics that absolutely had to be included.  In the very first story, you will meet Hershel, the ghost of a former theatre arts student who likes to pull pranks inside High Point University's Memorial Auditorium, the very building in which he hanged himself.  Then of course there is Lydia.  Sure, this is a story that can be found in similar form just about anywhere in the country, but Lydia is truly special to those of us in North Carolina - I doubt if there is anyone living here that has not heard about the stranded young lady dressed in white who sometimes appears to lone drivers beneath a railroad underpass in Jamestown; the driver stops to help, agrees to take her home to High Point, and then discovers that she has vanished once he arrives at her house - those drivers who went up to the house then learned that Lydia had been killed underneath that same underpass on her way home from a party many years earlier.  The road no longer goes by this underpass, but still the legend of Lydia haunts our imaginations.  This is, in my opinion, the quintessential ghost story, and much to my delight this book includes the story of one encounter with Lydia that differed significantly from the traditional version.<br /><br />What else will you find here?  There's a ghost of a young lady who hanged herself to avoid an arranged marriage and returned each anniversary of her death to torment her father; wailing ghosts still inhabiting broken-down mansions; Devil's Cove, an oppressive cave where the devil is said to live; ghosts of Union soldiers who died in the thousands in a Confederate prison camp, who now seem to reside on the grounds of the National Cemetery at Salisbury; a ghost who leaves adults alone but terrifies children living in his house; ghosts who seemingly love to party hard and loud while the owners are away; a woman whose painting of a home she sees in her nightmares turns out to be a perfect image of a nearby home that burned down long ago - complete with a face of the child who lived there looking out the window; and many more juicy tales - 21 in all.  Some of these stories are just a little bit creepy, and that is exactly what I want my ghost stories to be.<br /><br />I also feel compelled to mention the fact that one of the co-authors, Linda Duck Tanenbaum, passed away just before the book was published, and Barry McGee devotes a special introduction to the passing of his co-author and friend.  This is not a long book, but it makes for a deliciously creepy read on those dark and stormy nights.d marriage and returned each anniversary of her death to torment her father; wailing ghosts still inhabiting broken-down mansions; Devil's Cove, an oppressive cave where the devil is said to live; ghosts of Union soldiers who died in the thousands in a Confederate prison camp, who now seem to reside on the grounds of the National Cemetery at Salisbury; a ghost who leaves adults alone but terrifies children living in his house; ghosts who seemingly love to party hard and loud while the owners are away; a woman whose painting of a home she sees in her nightmares turns out to be a perfect image of a nearby home that burned down long ago - complete with a face of the child who lived there looking out the window; and many more juicy tales - 21 in all.  Some of these stories are just a little bit creepy, and that is exactly what I want my ghost stories to be.   <br /> <br />I also feel compelled to mention the fact that one of the co-authors, Linda Duck Tanenbaum, passed away just before the book was published, and Barry McGee devotes a special introduction to the passing of his co-author and friend.  This is not a long book, but it makes for a deliciously creepy read on those dark and stormy nights.	2004-08-13
558202:US	53016962	R1ENBY71SMSZG5	0687089999	50469085	Breaking the Code: Understanding the Book of Revelation With Study Guide	Books	5	109	111	N	N	An excellent introduction to the Book of Revelation	Breaking the Code makes for an excellent introduction and study guide to the Book of Revelation, a book that many Christians sometimes neglect, finding it too confusing or difficult to understand.  Metzger is a noted Biblical scholar, but he wrote this book with the nontheological layman in mind, taking the reader step-by-step through the sections of the Book of Revelation, explaining each passage in a clearly understandable manner.  He goes to great lengths to point out the beauty of the writing and the many blessings that God will bestow upon the faithful as the waves of tribulation break upon the corrupt earth.<br /><br />The most striking piece of advice Metzger gives to the reader is this: the Book of Revelation does not mean what it says - it means what it means.  By this, he means that the visions of John should not be taken literally - his description of Jesus, the dragon, the beasts, the Four Horsemen, the new Jerusalem, etc.  Rather, such images are to be interpreted symbolically.  Metzger puts great emphasis on the symbolic language that John uses, and in so doing he does a fabulous job of linking the content of Revelation to a myriad of Old Testament sources.  He explains the numbers that keep appearing in the visions, such as seven and twelve, as representative of completeness.  Another such number is 144,000 which is said to represent the saints in heaven - this particular reference has caused discord in the past, as some persons and groups, such as Jehovah's Witnesses, have interpreted this as the maximum number of people who will gain access to heaven, but Metzger argues that the number is used to represent all of those who remain faithful.  In a similar vein, the seven churches mentioned early in the Book are meant to represent all churches - then and now.<br /><br />Metzger makes many important points in these pages.  He tells us, for example, not to expect the foretold events to happen in the order they appear in the Book itself.  In this regard, he does an excellent job of demonstrating how later parts of the Book reinforce and present anew, from a fresh angle, information about events already described.  He also does a good job distinguishing between information intended for John's contemporaries and prophecies concerning the Last Days.<br /><br />In the same vein, Metzger follows in the footsteps of John himself by stopping at appointed times to extol the infinite love of God and to reassure believers of God's promise to protect them from the horrible events that will define the final days of the world.  While many consider Revelation almost incomprehensible and disorganized, Metzger clearly proves that the book is built upon a solid, noticeably logical structure.<br /><br />While he does greatly expound upon the symbolic nature of the visions, Metzger does not go into great detail about some of the more fascinating images the Book conjures up.  Nor does he bog himself down in theological detail.  When he gets to Revelation 20 and the thousand-year reign described therein, he refers only briefly to such concepts as the rapture, the tribulation and different schools of end-times interpretation (namely postmillennialists, premillennialists, and amillennialists) - as he points out, these terms are not to be found in Revelation, and the concepts have been assimilated from other portions of the Bible over the years.  This truly is a very readable summary of the contents of the Book.  Those seeking deeper commentary should continue their study elsewhere, and the author includes a bibliography to help point the reader to additional sources.  One should not, however, accept all of Metzger's interpretations uncritically.  Read the Book of Revelation yourself, consult other sources, and seek a level of personal understanding of the text if you really want to gain insight into this most difficult of Biblical Books.ard, he does an excellent job of demonstrating how later parts of the Book reinforce and present anew, from a fresh angle, information about events already described.  He also does a good job distinguishing between information intended for John's contemporaries and prophecies concerning the Last Days. <br /> <br />In the same vein, Metzger follows in the footsteps of John himself by stopping at appointed times to extol the infinite love of God and to reassure believers of God's promise to protect them from the horrible events that will define the final days of the world.  While many consider Revelation almost incomprehensible and disorganized, Metzger clearly proves that the book is built upon a solid, noticeably logical structure.   <br /> <br />While he does greatly expound upon the symbolic nature of the visions, Metzger does not go into great detail about some of the more fascinating images the Book conjures up.  Nor does he bog himself down in theological detail.  When he gets to Revelation 20 and the thousand-year reign described therein, he refers only briefly to such concepts as the rapture, the tribulation and different schools of end-times interpretation (namely postmillennialists, premillennialists, and amillennialists) - as he points out, these terms are not to be found in Revelation, and the concepts have been assimilated from other portions of the Bible over the years.  This truly is a very readable summary of the contents of the Book.  Those seeking deeper commentary should continue their study elsewhere, and the author includes a bibliography to help point the reader to additional sources.  One should not, however, accept all of Metzger's interpretations uncritically.  Read the Book of Revelation yourself, consult other sources, and seek a level of personal understanding of the text if you really want to gain insight into this most difficult of Biblical Books.	2004-08-12
560844:US	53016962	R1MIM9XHT17XSC	0800631072	502587644	Jesus at Thirty: A Psychological and Historical Portrait	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Psychobabble meets the quest for the historical Jesus	In Jesus at Thirty, John W. Miller attempts to psychoanalyze Jesus and explain His state of mind when, around the age of thirty, He began His public ministry.  It is a solid, well-organized attempt to do just that.  Miller looks at Jesus' relations to His earthly family (the item of interest which drew me to this book), His father and mother specifically, Satan, and by implication God.  He also expounds upon the subject of Jesus' sexuality before bringing all of his observations together to offer ideas about if not a full-fledged portrait of Jesus the man on the brink of His public ministry.<br /><br />While the book represents a noble effort on Miller's part, I find the whole study highly flawed.  I have never cared for psychohistory and feel it is essentially wrong-headed and heavily influenced by the supposed researcher's own ideas; the very method is best described as psychobabble.  Miller is particularly influenced by Freudian analysis, expressing more faith in psychoanalysis than I thought existed in this day and age.  This book rests on yet another flimsy foundation, I feel - the modern historical search for Jesus.  This is problematic on two levels.  For one thing, the author looks upon major portions of the Gospels as fictitious and thus historically useless.  I as a fundamentalist Christian cannot possibly embrace Miller's grand theories for this reason alone (and it turns out there are many additional reasons why I cannot embrace it).  More importantly, this viewpoint allows the author to basically pick and choose the Biblical passages he uses to make his arguments.  If you are going to reject the very foundation of the Gospels, you can't convince me of anything by arbitrarily using Biblical sources to make your argument.  Here is the problem in a nutshell - in my humble opinion.  The Jesus scholars of today with all of their heretical ideas condemn evangelicals for losing themselves in the divinity of Jesus and ignoring the human Jesus.  For their own part, they concentrate on Jesus as a man and deny His divinity.  I do not think you can produce a definitive study of Jesus Christ without fully embracing both His humanity and His divinity.<br /><br />Miller starts out by denying the Virgin birth, denying Jesus' identity as the Messiah, denying His complete lack of sin, and denying basically everything Christianity teaches about Him.  He seizes upon tiny bits of information from arbitrary passages in the Gospels to delineate his own psychohistorical image of Jesus as a man.  He puts great emphasis on Jesus' alienation from His family at the time of His ministry.  Certainly, there is a sense of such alienation in the Gospels when Jesus refuses to see His mother and brothers when they come to see Him at Capernaum and even earlier, when His family sought to bring Him home for fear He was \\"beside himself.\\"  Miller, to his credit, does not see Jesus as insane or delusional (as a number of modern scholars have suggested); rather, from this beginning he puts forth a sensible argument to explain Jesus' attitude in this regard.  Miller assumes that Joseph died while Jesus was in His early teens, making Jesus the ipso facto head of the household.  The death of His father at such an age can explain why Jesus did not marry in His early twenties, as was the custom.  It can also explain the estrangement that developed when Jesus set off on His own course over a decade later.  It is Jesus' baptism, in Miller's opinion, that caused the break between Jesus and His strongly dependent mother.  Only now, according to Miller, did Jesus find a purpose in His life, only now did He suddenly look upon Himself as the Son of God.<br /><br />Miller's interpretation of Jesus' trials in the wilderness is particularly interesting (and, in my opinion, quite wrong).  He sees Jesus being tempted, not as the Messiah, but as a man by the very thoughts of Messianic grandeur.  He continues in this vein by arguing that Jesus never saw Himself as the Messiah.  I can't deny the methodical nature of Miller's analysis, although I clearly think it is essentially baseless.  His discussion of Jesus' teachings and maturity are equally well-presented.  It is the inner conflict with hubris and Messianic grandeur that lies at the heart of Miller's Jesus, as he sees Jesus as emerging through the Oedipus complex in good fashion but then dealing with a number of family-related pressures and emotional issues brought about by the death of Joseph before breaking away from His family to discover His own purpose in life.<br /><br />Jesus at Thirty does deserve credit and attention, no matter how much I disagree with all of this psychobabble, because it does represent one of the few rigidly psychohistorical analyses of Jesus' life.  This is a study that can and probably will be built upon by other scholars in the years ahead, and the relative shortness of this book begs for a more detailed, comprehensive thrashing out of the issues Miller raises.  He provides detailed footnotes and an impressive bibliography that helps pave the way for others to walk the same road after him.e methodical nature of Miller's analysis, although I clearly think it is essentially baseless.  His discussion of Jesus' teachings and maturity are equally well-presented.  It is the inner conflict with hubris and Messianic grandeur that lies at the heart of Miller's Jesus, as he sees Jesus as emerging through the Oedipus complex in good fashion but then dealing with a number of family-related pressures and emotional issues brought about by the death of Joseph before breaking away from His family to discover His own purpose in life.    Jesus at Thirty does deserve credit and attention, no matter how much I disagree with all of this psychobabble, because it does represent one of the few rigidly psychohistorical analyses of Jesus' life.  This is a study that can and probably will be built upon by other scholars in the years ahead, and the relative shortness of this book begs for a more detailed, comprehensive thrashing out of the issues Miller raises.  He provides detailed footnotes and an impressive bibliography that helps pave the way for others to walk the same road after him.	2004-08-09
562395:US	53016962	R2JIKXBSF47XXE	0800634829	915481124	The Contemporary Quest for Jesus (Facets series)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A dense, compact look at the quests for the historical Jesus	The Contemporary Quest for Jesus is a compact summation of the historical search for Jesus over the course of the last two centuries, a description of the new scholarly trend in which N.T. Wright resides, and a tentative look at the future of this research.  Wright describes and critiques \\"the Critical Movement\\" initiated by scholars such as Reimarus and Schweitzer (which seemingly sought to destroy the foundations of Christianity), \\"the New Quest\\" most recently reignited by the work of the Jesus Seminar, and the more modern \\"Third Quest.\\"  He makes constant references to the prominent scholars among the three quests and their ideas, but his main purpose is to establish the groundwork for his own vision of what the \\"Third Quest\\" methodology should be.<br /><br />He lists three advantages of the \\"Third Quest\\" movement: it takes Jesus' Jewish background very seriously, its proponents do not have any axe to grind in the form of a theological or political agenda that would color their observations, and the quest is beginning to take on the essential questions Wright feels must be taken up.  These five questions, roughly stated, are these: How does Jesus fit into the Judaism of his day?  What were his aims?  Why did he die?  How did the early church come into being and why did it take the form it did?  and Why are the Gospels what they are?  He euphemistically poses a sixth question: So what?<br /><br />For a fundamentalist such as myself, the ideas of all three of these quests are rather shocking (as is the implication Wright makes of fundamentalism as \\"contrived literalism\\").  Scholars are asking questions that, to me, need not be asked, and they are disregarding the evidence of the Gospels that plainly provide those answers.  It is disturbing to see Jesus' resurrection referred to as \\"the Easter problem,\\" Jesus' trial looked upon with pure skepticism, the accounts of Jesus' life dismissed as pure fiction or, at best, propagandistic creations of the early church, and to hear learned men ask why in the world the early church believed Jesus died for the sins of mankind.<br /><br />In terms of the historical search for Jesus, which is a fascinating if somewhat frustrating form of scholarship, this book does not make for a very good introduction.  At less than one hundred pages, this book crams a ton of information into a very compact form; furthermore, Wright seems to assume a basic familiarity with the literature on the part of the reader (he also expects the reader to have read some of his own more detailed monographs already, casually referring to them many times).  Wright's analysis of the present and future state of the \\"Third Quest\\" is very useful in coming to grips with the manner and method of current scholarship.  Still, I would only recommend this book as a refresher-type read for someone with a basic familiarity with the prominent schools of thought on historical Jesus research.  For laymen unfamiliar with the varied schools of thought on the contemporary quest for Jesus, there is just not enough detail available here to properly ground you in the ideas and theories of academic research and criticism.nd to hear learned men ask why in the world the early church believed Jesus died for the sins of mankind.   <br /> <br />In terms of the historical search for Jesus, which is a fascinating if somewhat frustrating form of scholarship, this book does not make for a very good introduction.  At less than one hundred pages, this book crams a ton of information into a very compact form; furthermore, Wright seems to assume a basic familiarity with the literature on the part of the reader (he also expects the reader to have read some of his own more detailed monographs already, casually referring to them many times).  Wright's analysis of the present and future state of the \\"Third Quest\\" is very useful in coming to grips with the manner and method of current scholarship.  Still, I would only recommend this book as a refresher-type read for someone with a basic familiarity with the prominent schools of thought on historical Jesus research.  For laymen unfamiliar with the varied schools of thought on the contemporary quest for Jesus, there is just not enough detail available here to properly ground you in the ideas and theories of academic research and criticism.	2004-08-08
563751:US	53016962	R1D8CT362YA8S0	0824506987	603602118	Mosquitoes in Paradise: A New Look at Genesis, Jesus, and the Meaning of Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Seeks to explain suffering by reinterpreting Creation itself	Having visited the sick and dying in many a hospital and having worked closely with retarded children, John R. Aurelio has heard and asked the question &quot;Why, Lord?&quot; many times. It is very hard for humans to accept pain and suffering visited to the innocent, especially children. As a priest, Aurelio has contemplated the issue long and hard, and Mosquitoes in Paradise represents the sum totals of his thoughts on the matter. He makes a very interesting argument in this book, although I can't say that I agree with his thesis (which he himself admits is only a hypothesis). I should make clear that this is not really a book about coping with grief and sorrow in a practical way - it is geared more toward understanding it than coping with it.<br /><br /> The book is organized into small sections which the author recommends reading and reflecting upon over the course of many days. Early on, Aurelio suggests topics and sample prayers to reflect upon, but the second half of the book consists of his proposed reinterpretation of Paradise, Original Sin, and the Fall of Man. Aurelio suggests that Eden was not the Paradise we have envisioned, that Adam and Eve may well have experienced pain and suffering to some degree, known of physical death, hungered, worked the land, and lived in less than perfect harmony with the animals. Aurelio's Garden of Eden would have included such pests as mosquitoes (hence the book's intriguing title). After putting forth an illustrative story of Eve eating the forbidden fruit out of hunger, Aurelio immediately has the swarming mosquitoes bite her. He places a lot of emphasis on the fact that God looked upon Creation and saw that it was &quot;good&quot; or &quot;very good,&quot; arguing that this implies it could have been better.<br /><br /> Aurelio goes on to make the bold suggestion that life today is no different than life in the Garden of Eden before the Fall - the only thing that has changed is man himself, he argues. This by implication means that man can rediscover that Paradise here on Earth, and this can only be achieved through Jesus Christ. Whereas Adam initially saw the interconnectedness of all things in the world, his sin against God's faith forced a self-centered perspective upon him. Since the Fall, man has concentrated on the things he does not have because he does not see the unity of all things. The Kingdom of God is here, Aurelio suggests, and those who believe in Jesus can enter this kingdom right now.<br /><br /> What does all this have to do with the difficult issue of bad things happening to good people? Aurelio makes hay of the idea that sin causes disease and sickness, which is well and good. The problem he ran into with this viewpoint is the fact that it makes God appear as if He is dispensing arbitrary punishments for no reason. He avoids this difficult question altogether by suggesting that pain and suffering did, to some degree, exist in Paradise even before Adam and Eve committed the Original Sin. If this were true, then no one can say that pain and suffering were brought into being by the Fall of Man.<br /><br /> Aurelio fails to convince me that the Garden of Eden was not the perfect, harmonious place I have always thought it to be, and I really can't go along with the notion that pain and suffering was known there before Eve ever sank her teeth into the forbidden fruit, but certainly Mosquitoes in Paradise is a thought-provoking book that challenged some of my deepest beliefs. The author's ideas on Paradise and the Kingdom of God on earth are truly fascinating.lication means that man can rediscover that Paradise here on Earth, and this can only be achieved through Jesus Christ. Whereas Adam initially saw the interconnectedness of all things in the world, his sin against God's faith forced a self-centered perspective upon him. Since the Fall, man has concentrated on the things he does not have because he does not see the unity of all things. The Kingdom of God is here, Aurelio suggests, and those who believe in Jesus can enter this kingdom right now.  <br />  <br /> What does all this have to do with the difficult issue of bad things happening to good people? Aurelio makes hay of the idea that sin causes disease and sickness, which is well and good. The problem he ran into with this viewpoint is the fact that it makes God appear as if He is dispensing arbitrary punishments for no reason. He avoids this difficult question altogether by suggesting that pain and suffering did, to some degree, exist in Paradise even before Adam and Eve committed the Original Sin. If this were true, then no one can say that pain and suffering were brought into being by the Fall of Man. <br />  <br /> Aurelio fails to convince me that the Garden of Eden was not the perfect, harmonious place I have always thought it to be, and I really can't go along with the notion that pain and suffering was known there before Eve ever sank her teeth into the forbidden fruit, but certainly Mosquitoes in Paradise is a thought-provoking book that challenged some of my deepest beliefs. The author's ideas on Paradise and the Kingdom of God on earth are truly fascinating.	2004-08-06
564978:US	53016962	R3KW8ROMRK6WTH	0345294572	442744873	How to Teach Your Children About God: Without Actually Scaring Them Out of Their Wits	Books	3	9	9	N	N	It's a cute book, but I'm not sure it is all that helpful	Stan and Jan Berenstain, most famous for the Berenstain Bears series, published this nifty little book back in 1971 (it was reprinted in 1984). The title is self-explanatory, but this cute little book raises more questions than it answers, in my opinion. For one thing, the target audience is unclear to me - you would assume from the title that the book is indeed geared toward parents. The cartoon drawings that correspond to the short text, however, would seem to be drawn with children in mind. One might then speculate that the book is designed to be shared between parents and children, but the presence of a couple of mild expletives in the text will no doubt cause parents to keep this book away from the eyes of their youngsters.<br /><br /> The main problem, though, is the fact that this book really does not answer the question it poses. The authors show you why certain approaches to the task at hand (namely, telling Junior who or what God is) do not really work, but there is really no strategy laid out in terms of how parents should answer these questions. One can see what not to do, and this information is actually quite helpful: don't run away from your children's questions about God, don't just throw the kid into Sunday School and expect him to learn everything there (especially if you do not attend church yourself), and don't depend on the good old &quot;Now I lay me down to sleep&quot; bedtime prayer. The authors make an especially good point here. Expecting your child to go to sleep - in the dark - immediately after &quot;praying&quot; that God will take his soul if he should die during the night can actually scare the child - especially if he has no grounding in religion, for he is apt to take the soul-stealing reference quite literally.<br /><br /> The only real advice the authors give relates to dealing with the death of a pet - rather than try to protect or fool the youngster with the old switcheroo, the advice given here is to explain death to the child and allow him the opportunity to grieve for his lost friend. In the end, the reader learns little more than the fact that children will, at some point, ask a seemingly infinite number of God-related questions. Thus, while I enjoyed this short book and found it quite humorous in places, I'm really not sure that parents will find this book all that helpful.the opportunity to grieve for his lost friend. In the end, the reader learns little more than the fact that children will, at some point, ask a seemingly infinite number of God-related questions. Thus, while I enjoyed this short book and found it quite humorous in places, I'm really not sure that parents will find this book all that helpful.	2004-08-05
565668:US	53016962	R2MZ6WAIWSQ9SY	0767000048	131542156	Biography - Nostradamus: Prophet of Doom [VHS]	Books	4	24	24	N	N	An informative look at the life of the Prophet of Doom	Almost everyone has heard of Nostradamus' prophecies, but many know nothing about the actual life of the man.  This video spends a good twenty-five minutes on the life story of the 16th century seer before it gets into the subjects of the prophecies themselves.  Nostradamus was a fascinating man, exhibiting special qualities even as a child.  His grandfather took him under his wing and taught him many things that helped prepare him for his life as a medical doctor.  I learned one very surprising fact: the first and foremost subject that doctors had to learn in that era was astrology, as they based much of their diagnoses and remedies on the patient's horoscope.  Nostradamus was a man ahead of his time even in medicine, as he apparently insisted on cleanliness, refused to use bloodletting as a remedy, and enjoyed much success with his own lozenge of special herbs.  The plague was devastating all of Europe in those days, but Nostradamus never contracted the disease himself.  The Black Death did claim his wife and children, however, while Nostradamus was away helping treat others elsewhere in Europe.<br /><br />After the loss of his family and the arrival of news that the Inquisition would like to speak to him, Nostradamus embarked on a wanderlust journey of Europe, during which time he seems to have taken a great interest in divination.  The video describes how he supposedly invoked his visions in a secret room of his house; he would, it is said, actually travel in some form to the future and unconsciously write down his predictions while in a trance.  He had to be careful, though, as the Inquisition was poised and ready to leap upon anyone with unorthodox ideas, and this is the reason his famous quatrains incorporated all sorts of anagrams and tricky little words and phrases.  His fame as a seer grew, and no less than the queen of France herself called upon him for specialized predictions as to the future of her children.  One of the quatrains seemed to predict the death of Henry II, and when that prediction came true, a mob wanted to burn Nostradamus as some sort of warlock - luckily, the queen's influence kept him safe.<br /><br />A number of the quatrains are read to us and accompanied with visual images of the events and individuals they supposedly predicted: the French Revolution, the destructive reigns of Napoleon and Hitler, the assassination of John and Robert Kennedy, man's trip to the moon, the Gulf War, the Challenger explosion, and the list goes on.  The only problem I have with this video is the fact that the discussion of the prophecies is completely one-sided.  Nostradamus' modern-day supporters marvel at the seer's extraordinary future vision and make a very big deal out of the details he seemed to hit right on the money.  There is no real discussion of the validity of the prophecies.  Normally, since this is a biographical presentation, I would not expect to see skeptics included in the program.  The fact that the video seems to make a big deal out of the accuracy of the predictions, however, seems to necessitate an opposing viewpoint.  There is no reference to the skeptics who talk about how vague the quatrains are and explain how different translations and interpretations of the quatrains lead to different conclusions.  In its place, all we get is the weakest of explanations for those prophecies that did not prove true - the prophecies showed what would happen if man's course did not change, so obviously man managed to avoid certain of the fates foreseen by Nostradamus.  This video gives the impression that Nostradamus was indeed a true prophet who saw the future with incredible accuracy; many people, including myself, do not embrace such a concept, and I think this video would have benefited greatly from the inclusion of at least one Nostradamus skeptic into the discussion.death of Henry II, and when that prediction came true, a mob wanted to burn Nostradamus as some sort of warlock - luckily, the queen's influence kept him safe. <br /> <br />A number of the quatrains are read to us and accompanied with visual images of the events and individuals they supposedly predicted: the French Revolution, the destructive reigns of Napoleon and Hitler, the assassination of John and Robert Kennedy, man's trip to the moon, the Gulf War, the Challenger explosion, and the list goes on.  The only problem I have with this video is the fact that the discussion of the prophecies is completely one-sided.  Nostradamus' modern-day supporters marvel at the seer's extraordinary future vision and make a very big deal out of the details he seemed to hit right on the money.  There is no real discussion of the validity of the prophecies.  Normally, since this is a biographical presentation, I would not expect to see skeptics included in the program.  The fact that the video seems to make a big deal out of the accuracy of the predictions, however, seems to necessitate an opposing viewpoint.  There is no reference to the skeptics who talk about how vague the quatrains are and explain how different translations and interpretations of the quatrains lead to different conclusions.  In its place, all we get is the weakest of explanations for those prophecies that did not prove true - the prophecies showed what would happen if man's course did not change, so obviously man managed to avoid certain of the fates foreseen by Nostradamus.  This video gives the impression that Nostradamus was indeed a true prophet who saw the future with incredible accuracy; many people, including myself, do not embrace such a concept, and I think this video would have benefited greatly from the inclusion of at least one Nostradamus skeptic into the discussion.	2004-08-05
565709:US	53016962	R3V2JJJA8FNJD8	0877840776	135528850	The Trinity	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An invaluable discussion of the doctrine of the Trinity	The doctrine of the Trinity is not an easy thing to comprehend, but understanding is critical in our chaotic modern world where various groups reject the full divinity of Jesus; to truly understand the New Testament, you need to know the truth about the Trinity. In this short but well-constructed book, Robert Crossley attempts to clear up any confusion about this doctrine and enable readers to arm themselves with the truth of One God - Three Persons.<br /><br /> There is only one God, yet the Bible speaks of God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit. How can this be? That is a question each Christian must grapple with in order to fully realize the truth of God's love. Crossley begins by gleaning the revealed facts about God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit from both the Old and New Testaments. The core truths do not change, but they are sharpened in the pages of the New Testament for the simple reason that the promises of the Old Testament have been realized, in Jesus. By comparing the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, he shows that they are all one and the same.<br /><br /> Crossley's central argument is that the Trinity consists of one God in three persons. He presents an impressive argument for the separation of the Trinity into three persons, making extensive use of the Bible to show the distinction that must be made between God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I was most interested in Crossley's discussion of the Holy Spirit, for this is the least understood concept of the doctrine. He makes the case that the Holy Spirit is a distinct personality and not some kind of murky &quot;influence.&quot; He describes the Holy Spirit as a distinct person who revolutionizes people's lives; indeed, salvation comes from God through the Holy Spirit.<br /><br /> The word Trinity cannot be found in the New Testament, which came as something of a surprise to me. Does this mean the doctrine of the Trinity is unimportant to the Christian? Of course not; it is in fact of supreme importance to those who would know God. Crossley explains how this doctrine grew out of the early Christian Church. Those earliest Christians knew God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit from close, personal experience; the questions Crossley attempts to answer in this book would never even have occurred to those early Christians. What they knew from experience gradually became incorporated into the doctrine of the Trinity. In formulating the doctrine, they were attempting to explain in human terms the majesty and glory of God, which of course transcends human reason, and the limitations of the human mind and of language account for the confusion that naturally surrounds the concept even today.<br /><br /> Crossley ends the book by addressing three of the most common questions asked about the doctrine of the Trinity, reiterating the fact that Jesus was both fully human and fully divine. This takes him to an area of great concern for him, namely the rejection of Jesus' full deity by some groups, but it also challenges Christians who believe that Jesus was God in human form. Crossley effectively proves that God the Father and Jesus the Son are distinct persons and that Jesus was both fully divine and fully human - had this not been the case, Jesus could not have become the Savior of the world.<br /><br /> This is a well-argued, thought-provoking little book that all Christians can benefit from. The doctrine of the Trinity is a hard one to grasp, but the Christian must make the effort to understand the concept of three persons in one God in order to truly understand the message of the New Testament.rse not; it is in fact of supreme importance to those who would know God. Crossley explains how this doctrine grew out of the early Christian Church. Those earliest Christians knew God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit from close, personal experience; the questions Crossley attempts to answer in this book would never even have occurred to those early Christians. What they knew from experience gradually became incorporated into the doctrine of the Trinity. In formulating the doctrine, they were attempting to explain in human terms the majesty and glory of God, which of course transcends human reason, and the limitations of the human mind and of language account for the confusion that naturally surrounds the concept even today. <br />  <br /> Crossley ends the book by addressing three of the most common questions asked about the doctrine of the Trinity, reiterating the fact that Jesus was both fully human and fully divine. This takes him to an area of great concern for him, namely the rejection of Jesus' full deity by some groups, but it also challenges Christians who believe that Jesus was God in human form. Crossley effectively proves that God the Father and Jesus the Son are distinct persons and that Jesus was both fully divine and fully human - had this not been the case, Jesus could not have become the Savior of the world. <br />  <br /> This is a well-argued, thought-provoking little book that all Christians can benefit from. The doctrine of the Trinity is a hard one to grasp, but the Christian must make the effort to understand the concept of three persons in one God in order to truly understand the message of the New Testament.	2004-08-05
567126:US	53016962	R2QC5O6YWOZ203	0595319874	827098853	The Catalan Gambit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A thoroughly engaging, unpredictable suspense thriller	The Catalan Gambit is a rip-roaring good read as timely as it is exciting. While there is no such thing as a simple hijacking, of course, the hijacking that stands at the center of this suspense thriller is much more complicated and fascinating than it originally seems. Douglas Quinn gives the reader a look at a truly frightening scenario through the eyes of everyone involved in the crisis, demonstrating how the ideas and plans of the &quot;good guys&quot; can sometimes be just as disturbing as those of the evildoers themselves.<br /><br /> Henry Ellis is a widower who is settling down to a quiet two weeks at home while his twin children enjoy an educational class tour of Spain, but his peace is soon shattered when he learns that the Iberian Air jet carrying the school group has been hijacked before taking off from Madrid en route to Barcelona. On the news, he sees his daughter held at gunpoint in front of the passenger door, sending his impotent frustration to epic levels. Unhappy with the generic information being handed out to the families via the State Department, Henry sets off on a desperate quest to fly to Spain and offer himself to the terrorists in exchange for the safety of his children. Making the transatlantic trip is an ordeal in itself, as he is forced to evade the resisting arms of the State Department, but his troubles really begin once he reaches Spain. Having been born in that country himself, he seeks the aid of his uncle and a friendly priest, having no idea that his rather ill-conceived plans will soon make him a puppet in the hands of multiple interests directly involved with the hijacking. The Palestinian hijackers claim to represent the intifada, but ties to their despicable plot weave their way through ETA, the Basque separatist movement, as well as an obsessed ex-CIA agent.<br /><br /> This novel works on two levels. First, the drama of the hostage situation itself is intense and at times visceral. Quinn pulls no punches in showing just how inhumane and sadistic the terrorists can be. Second, the web of conspiracy that lies behind all of this drama is complex and increasingly surprising as the truth is slowly revealed to the reader. Cooperation between different terrorist groups can be rife with backstabbing and double-crossing, but in this particular conspiracy, you can't even be sure that the line in the sand dividing the &quot;good guys&quot; from the &quot;bad guys&quot; has any real meaning.<br /><br /> The main characters are all presented in impressive fashion, allowing the reader a necessary perception into their feelings, loyalties, commitments, and - thus - rationales. I wasn't a big fan of Henry Ellis early on, as he berated the lack of responsiveness by the government, but once he arrived on Spanish soil he became a hero in every sense of the word. Thinking only of his children, he is more than willing to sacrifice his life for their safety. I do have a few questions about the guy in charge of foiling the hijacking, and I'm still a little murky on just how the conspiracy itself could have been put together, but the thrilling conclusion to the novel's massive buildup of suspense left me quite enthralled with the whole reading experience.<br /><br /> The ending is particularly interesting, as one seemingly controversial aspect of it certainly took me by surprise and kept the story fresh in my mind long after I finished the book. The whole novel really resonates in the post-9/11 world we live in. Here we have a plane full of American students hijacked by Palestinian terrorists in a foreign country - Spain. What does the American government do in such a nightmarish situation? What should it do? If you want a nail-biter of a novel that leaves you pondering questions of ethics, morality, and government policy-making in this terrorist age we live in, The Catalan Gambit should prove quite an engaging read for you.just how inhumane and sadistic the terrorists can be. Second, the web of conspiracy that lies behind all of this drama is complex and increasingly surprising as the truth is slowly revealed to the reader. Cooperation between different terrorist groups can be rife with backstabbing and double-crossing, but in this particular conspiracy, you can't even be sure that the line in the sand dividing the &quot;good guys&quot; from the &quot;bad guys&quot; has any real meaning.  <br />  <br /> The main characters are all presented in impressive fashion, allowing the reader a necessary perception into their feelings, loyalties, commitments, and - thus - rationales. I wasn't a big fan of Henry Ellis early on, as he berated the lack of responsiveness by the government, but once he arrived on Spanish soil he became a hero in every sense of the word. Thinking only of his children, he is more than willing to sacrifice his life for their safety. I do have a few questions about the guy in charge of foiling the hijacking, and I'm still a little murky on just how the conspiracy itself could have been put together, but the thrilling conclusion to the novel's massive buildup of suspense left me quite enthralled with the whole reading experience. <br />  <br /> The ending is particularly interesting, as one seemingly controversial aspect of it certainly took me by surprise and kept the story fresh in my mind long after I finished the book. The whole novel really resonates in the post-9/11 world we live in. Here we have a plane full of American students hijacked by Palestinian terrorists in a foreign country - Spain. What does the American government do in such a nightmarish situation? What should it do? If you want a nail-biter of a novel that leaves you pondering questions of ethics, morality, and government policy-making in this terrorist age we live in, The Catalan Gambit should prove quite an engaging read for you.	2004-08-03
570118:US	53016962	R3F8XO44T7B4QP	059530253X	885318963	A Small Case of Murder	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Everything a great mystery novel should be - and then some	It takes a special kind of writer to really pull off a good mystery without pulling any punches, taking any shortcuts, or losing the reader's commitment all the way up to the final page. Lauren Carr is one of those special writers. A Small Case of Murder is like a good mystery on steroids; everything starts out simple, with a mysterious little murder committed decades ago, but the plot soon becomes increasingly complex and increasingly fascinating. This is not a simple mystery - not by a long shot. I don't know if I have ever read a mystery with as many twists and turns along the way: you've got a 50-year string of murders covering two sides of the globe, all kinds of personal secrets being held close by the innocent and guilty alike, rampant speculation and discoveries about blood ties and familial relations among a fairly large subset of people, and plenty of characters worthy of your suspicion as the story unfolds. I did have to stop at times, re-read a sudden revelation, and pause to work out how this new piece of evidence could possibly be and what it might mean, yet Carr never allows the complexity of the web she is weaving to leave the reader by the wayside, lost and confused. You do have to be an active participant in the drama, though, if you are going to keep yourself from tripping up over all the loose ends that slowly come together on the pathway to the truth.<br /><br /> After the death of his wife, Joshua Thornton has left the Navy (where he worked as an investigator and prosecutor) and returned home to West Virginia to raise his five children. Cleaning out the old house, he finds an unopened letter mailed to his parents on the very day they died in an accident; here Josh learns that his parents and another couple discovered a dead body on their prom night only to find it gone when they got the sheriff out to the site. This letter soon becomes an important piece of evidence in an investigation of mammoth proportions; the story of the dead body his parents found becomes much more than the &quot;small case of murder&quot; Josh's son initially proclaims it to be. The criminal activity all centers on a prominent local preacher and his family; this man of the cloth and his children are already known to be the local drug lords (although no one has been able to prove it yet), but the onus of drug peddling pales in comparison to the body count that soon begins to stack up. I won't say any more about the plot. I really couldn't begin to do justice to this complex story, nor would I want to take a single iota of enjoyment from future readers of this riveting mystery.<br /><br /> Carr handles all of her characters in a wonderfully subtle manner, forcing us to consider each one a possible suspect at some point - and there are plenty of loosely connected crimes to go around. Of course, the murders of several potential suspects tend to shorten the reader's list as one goes along. Still, I went into the concluding chapters with little idea of how everything would actually play out - although I certainly had my suspicions (and was actually right on the money in a couple of cases, I'm quite proud to say). Then, just when you think everything is out in the open, Carr drops another little bomb right on you. Stepping away from the story now, I can only marvel at the beauty of Carr's intricate plot - and I mean marvel of the jaw-dropping kind.<br /><br /> Have I mentioned how addictive this story is? You might need to set your clock before picking this novel up, as you really can almost immediately immerse yourself completely in these pages. Carr never takes her foot off the gas, either, as you are bombarded time and time again with new crimes, new evidence, new bombshells, new suspicions. What I am essentially saying here is this: A Small Case of Murder is one of the most absorbing, fascinating, complex, and impressive mystery novels I have ever read. If you love a good mystery, you will absolutely go nuts over Lauren Carr's A SmallCase of Murder.r's A Small Case of Murder.	2004-08-01
573156:US	53016962	R23IF1GZZNJKE8	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A wonderful book with an inspirational, comforting message	In many ways, The Five People You Meet in Heaven is a simple little book; as is so often the case, the most profound of answers are revealed most clearly in the simplest of explanations.  This is not a book about heaven in a religious sense; the truths it establishes are to be found right here in our own lives: every life has a purpose, every person and every action is related, and while you may not be able to discern it now, it all makes sense in the end.<br /><br />Eddie represents all of us to some degree.  Looking back on his life with regret over all the things he should have done or not done, he is almost a ghost of himself.  Since the death of his wife, he has basically gone through the motions, working at the same job his father worked before him, dealing with the bad dreams brought on by his wartime experience, watching his body deteriorate to the point that he can barely get around, waiting for nothing, feeling nothing but regret.  He always wanted to get away from his father and live an entirely different sort of life, yet he wound up taking over his father's job, living in the same building, failing to achieve any of the hopes and dreams he embraced so tightly as a young man.  His wife was his only anchor, and she has been dead a long time now.<br /><br />When we first meet Eddie, he is about to die.  The end is just another beginning, however, and we learn the story of Eddie's life as the novel progresses.  Heaven is not what he expected; he finds no peace here at all.  Happiness cannot come without understanding, however, and five people are waiting to explain Eddie's life to him.  They include people he barely knew or did not know at all, yet he soon learns what a huge influence he had in their earthly lives.  Each one imparts to Eddie a lesson he must learn in order to find peace.  I won't describe who the five people are or what they tell him; but I will say that the overall message is a really touching and significant one.  Understanding is not a pain-free process, but it leads to the complete unburdening of Eddie's soul.  The ending was nothing short of beautiful.  It would have been easy to sit back and let an overly sappy conclusion ruin the whole story, but Albom does not let that happen.<br /><br />While this is a great and rewarding read, some readers will never give themselves fully to the story and will thus wonder what the big deal about this book is.  For many, though, The Five People You Meet in Heaven will provide an important level of comfort and inspiration for those who see only a past of regrets and no future.  We all sometimes wonder why we are here and whether it's even worth going on day after meaningless, monotonous day.  This book does not provide the definitive answer to such profound questions, but it does provide an answer - and it is a comforting one.ain-free process, but it leads to the complete unburdening of Eddie's soul.  The ending was nothing short of beautiful.  It would have been easy to sit back and let an overly sappy conclusion ruin the whole story, but Albom does not let that happen.<br /><br />While this is a great and rewarding read, some readers will never give themselves fully to the story and will thus wonder what the big deal about this book is.  For many, though, The Five People You Meet in Heaven will provide an important level of comfort and inspiration for those who see only a past of regrets and no future.  We all sometimes wonder why we are here and whether it's even worth going on day after meaningless, monotonous day.  This book does not provide the definitive answer to such profound questions, but it does provide an answer - and it is a comforting one.	2004-07-29
575038:US	53016962	R1U7M9XECJIYBR	0451459067	966522728	Dhampir (Noble Dead)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Fresh, exciting vampire action in a rich, immersive setting	Not so long ago, there was a pervasive sense, even among horror fans, that the vampire genre was dead, that it had been bled dry of all creativity and effectiveness. We now know better, of course. One of the more recent scintillating entries in the vampire genre is Dhampir by Barb & J.C. Hendee. If you're a vampire fan, you will almost certainly enjoy this formidable work of dark fantasy literature. While I wouldn't go so far as to equate it with Buffy the Vampire Slayer, it is exciting both viscerally and intellectually.<br /><br /> Magiere has built quite a reputation as a vampire hunter; she doesn't come cheap, but she always gets her vampire. Of course, her &quot;vampire&quot; is always her trusty half-elven partner Leesil playing the role of the undead fiend. It's a living, but Magiere has grown tired of the game, tired of basically robbing villages of their wealth; it's not as if the superstitious folks across the land actually need protecting since vampires don't exist in the first place. She has just purchased a tavern in the coastal city of Miiska, and she can't wait to get there and start a new life. Then she is attacked one night by a man with supernatural strength and abilities; lucky to survive the fierce fight, she is left troubled by the emotional and physical changes she experienced in the heat of battle. Although she does not realize it at first, a trio of vampires awaits her in Miiska and plots to destroy her, thinking this famous &quot;hunter&quot; is coming to destroy them. She doesn't even know what she is yet, though - not only is she truly a vampire hunter, she is a dhampir. While she is a mortal being, the vampire half of her blood gives her the ability and specialized skills to kill the Noble Undead. Leesin has a secret heritage of his own which makes him an ideal partner for the true hunter, and Leesin's dog Chap also possesses the special capacity to take on the undead. Magiere's undead foes are quite shocked to learn that she can actually harm them with her blade, and their growing realization of her true power and innate calling only furthers the determination of the head vampire Rashed to kill this hunter in order to protect his vampire family.<br /><br /> It's an odd set of vampires: Rashed finds comfort in a mortal life, setting himself up as a businessman and insisting that his kind feed upon but not kill its victims. The female Teesha also finds comfort in the trappings of normal life and is actually quite likable in several ways. Then there is Ratboy, the Pig Pen of the vampire world whose feral tendencies sometimes threaten to reveal the vampire presence to the local populace. The vampires also have an ally in the form of Teesha's husband (who just so happens to be a nearly-headless ghost). Magiere doesn't want to fight vampires, but the fact that she keeps getting attacked by them makes it unavoidable. Her mind is in constant turmoil, trying to cope with the increasingly troubling revelations about her true nature, worrying about Leesil on a number of levels, fighting just to survive each night when the sun goes down, dealing with a sense of guilt for the false life she has led up until now, and yearning for the settled, peaceful life she craves so dearly.<br /><br /> All of the main characters are complex and very human (or nonhuman, as the case may be), even the dog Chap. That makes the fight scenes all the more thrilling, and the Hendees know how to make vampire action exciting, I can assure you. There are a number of skirmishes and knock-down-drag-out-cut-off-the-head fights in these pages, each of them described in vivid detail. The thrill of it all isn't just blood lust either; the multi-layered richness to the vampires' lives and relationships raises them far above the level of simple monsters representing evil incarnate.<br /><br /> You still get your basic vampire mythology here, but some unusual additions to the lore help keep things lively and unpredictable. The fights are a joyto experience, as you get all sorts of killing instruments and murder techniques thrown in (garlic water, for example, when applied liberally to a vampire's skin, bakes it up into a most satisfying charred, smoky mess). The emotional growth of both Magiere and Leesil as the novel progresses offers a strong undercurrent that connects with the reader on a very human level, making these characters ones you really want to meet up with again in the future. The Hendees have created a truly vibrant world ready to open its arms wide to all vampire aficionados. Those who crave vampire-fighting action can sate their needs quite well in the pages of this novel, while those who want to understand the nature and motivations of vampires and their foes are in for a really special treat.hts are a joy to experience, as you get all sorts of killing instruments and murder techniques thrown in (garlic water, for example, when applied liberally to a vampire's skin, bakes it up into a most satisfying charred, smoky mess). The emotional growth of both Magiere and Leesil as the novel progresses offers a strong undercurrent that connects with the reader on a very human level, making these characters ones you really want to meet up with again in the future. The Hendees have created a truly vibrant world ready to open its arms wide to all vampire aficionados. Those who crave vampire-fighting action can sate their needs quite well in the pages of this novel, while those who want to understand the nature and motivations of vampires and their foes are in for a really special treat.	2004-07-27
577603:US	53016962	R3GZEAJ4IPNFFI	0883050307	741331127	Freedom in God: A guide to the thought of Nicholas Berdyaev	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A look at bold religious views quite unfamiliar to me	Sometimes I pick up a book for no apparent reason.  I had never heard of Nicholas Berdyaev in my life, but the identification of his ideas with Freedom in God led me to give this little book a look.  Berdyaev was a Russian who embraced Marxism in his youth before turning to the values of Orthodox Christianity; he rejected Russian Communism in the wake of the Bolshevik Revolution, and he was in fact exiled in 1922, eventually settling to live and teach in Paris.  This discussion of his ideas helps elucidate some of the differences between eastern and western Christianity, serves up an interesting take on Russian Communism in its post-World War II incarnation, and proposes the interesting idea of a New Middle Ages as being a good thing.<br /><br />Berdyaev practiced a somewhat mystical sort of Christianity, entrenched in the conception of the God-man.  Religion was merely a social phenomenon telling believers what to believe; Berdyaev disliked the hierarchical structure of the Church and concentrated on the unity of Christ and man, believing that man should in fact work toward the end times when he would in fact become God.  He criticized western Christianity for its obsession with sin and the need for salvation, and he yearned for the return of man to a life centered around nature and communion with God.  A Christian Humanist, he looked back on the Renaissance, Reformation, and Industrial Revolution with disdain, tracing the origins of the detachment of humanism from Christianity to those times.  He criticized modern society for its compartmentalization of religion, arguing that God should be at the center of all things.  He criticized capitalism for its emphasis on the accumulation of wealth and power, but he actually saw Russian Communism as the culmination of the bourgeois and capitalist mentality, describing it as a system of government in which the individual was subsumed by the society as a whole.<br /><br />Berdyaev longed for a New Middle Ages, a time when men would once again return to God to find true freedom and meaning free of the corrupting influences of money and power and the unhelpful symbolism of the Church hierarchy and thus establish a society truly built on love and genuine communion on a wholly spiritual scale.  Author E.L. Allen criticizes Berdyaev for failing to recognize the potential of democracy to provide the kinds of personal freedoms he felt were crucial to establishing a personal communion with God.<br /><br />This is a short little book, but it contains some very interesting ideas on both capitalism and Communism, an unusual criticism of Communism from a former Marxist, and a bold take on the future society Berdyaev longed for.  His mystical take on Christianity is interesting, and I found his insights into the breakup of Christianity into its western and eastern Orthodox forms surprisingly informative.n would once again return to God to find true freedom and meaning free of the corrupting influences of money and power and the unhelpful symbolism of the Church hierarchy and thus establish a society truly built on love and genuine communion on a wholly spiritual scale.  Author E.L. Allen criticizes Berdyaev for failing to recognize the potential of democracy to provide the kinds of personal freedoms he felt were crucial to establishing a personal communion with God.<br /><br />This is a short little book, but it contains some very interesting ideas on both capitalism and Communism, an unusual criticism of Communism from a former Marxist, and a bold take on the future society Berdyaev longed for.  His mystical take on Christianity is interesting, and I found his insights into the breakup of Christianity into its western and eastern Orthodox forms surprisingly informative.	2004-07-25
578557:US	53016962	R2XKH4DCGBKCLA	0451529014	388348265	The Black Jewels: Trilogy: Daughter of the Blood / Heir to the Shadows / Queen of the Darkness	Books	5	18	19	N	N	All other dark fantasy pales in comparison to this	In my experience, the more impressive a book is, the harder it is to review. You want your review to do justice to a truly great book, knowing full well that a few hundred words can never truly express your feelings. Now, I find myself trying to do justice to not one fabulous book, but three of the most original, unique, and unbelievably amazing books I have ever read. With The Black Jewels Trilogy (consisting of Daughter of the Blood, Heir to the Shadows, and Queen of the Darkness), Anne Bishop has taken the literature of dark fantasy to heights I never even dreamed of. She has created a universe I can barely begin to describe, a realm of kingdoms ruled by women, in the form of witches, priestesses, and Black Widow queens, where the strongest of men are forced into the role of consort to the most vindictive of mistresses. Bishop turns good and evil upside down in this masterful literary vision, giving us heroes the likes of Saetan the High Lord of Hayll, his sons Daemon Sadi and Lucivar, and one very special and very powerful young lady named Jaenelle Angelline.<br /><br /> Ancient prophecies have foretold the coming of a powerful witch, one who would in reality be not a mere human female but &quot;dreams made flesh,&quot; nothing short of Witch herself. She comes in the form of a tremendously brave little girl, whom we first meet at the age of twelve or so when she comes to Hayll seeking instruction in the Craft from none other than Saetan himself. Human beings don't just come over into the land of the demon-dead, and Saetan quickly recognizes who this young girl truly is and will become. Jaenelle is terrible at the simple magic of the Craft, yet the true strength of her powers is almost infinite. She refuses to speak about her home life, for reasons that gradually become quite clear. Treated as an outcast by her family, she is subject to occasional stays in Briarwood. Briarwood is not what it seems; this &quot;hospital&quot; is in fact a place of unspeakable evil. Briarwood is in essence a poison, and there is no cure for Briarwood. Happenstance lands Daemon Sadi in the home of Jaenelle's grandmother as a consort, but even his undying love and recognition of whom and what Jaenelle really is cannot save her from a most brutal and unforgivable of fates. Daemon, like his estranged father Saetan, does wear the black jewels, however, and he uses all of his magical powers to save the physical life of Jaenelle, falling into the pits of the Twisted Kingdom of insanity in the process.<br /><br /> Saetan claims the girl as his own, and under his care she does gradually recover, but her innocence is gone. As the story progresses, she grows into her role as Witch, gathering among her inner circle the young Black Widow queens of adjacent lands as well as the Kindred, animals who wear the Blood jewels but are not recognized by the &quot;enlightened&quot; rulers of the realm of Terreille - high priestess Hekatah and the dark queen Dorothea, two of the most nefarious and thoroughly corrupt souls ever created by the hand of man or woman. The fate of Daemon, one of the most unique and fascinating characters I've ever encountered, is left hanging in the balance over the course of the entire second book of the trilogy, and his eventual return rekindles a needed spirit of innocent romance to a story defined by darkness and evil. Once Jaenelle makes the Dark Offering and ascends the throne of Ebon Askavi, establishing a Dark Court consisting of the most powerful men and women in the realms, the final conflict of good and evil draws nigh. While the question of victory is, one supposes, never much in doubt, Bishop creates a magical sense of suspense and hesitation on the part of the reader as he/she embarks on the final steps of this wondrous journey. The most beloved of characters suffer much, and the fate of Jaenelle herself is very much left in doubt.<br /><br /> I can't really even begin to describe the wonder and magic this trilogy possesses.It is quite unlike anything I have ever read before, featuring wholly unique and fascinating characters in droves. There is no strict demarcation between good and evil here, as Bishop stands tradition on its head, giving even minor characters more life than I can find in most of my fellow human beings. Some may refer to the romance elements of this story in a condescending manner, and some might look askance at the love Daemon Sadi feels for a twelve-year-old Jaenelle, but this is no prurient tale of lust. The love these remarkable characters feel for one another is of remarkable, noble depth in all manner of different forms, and the ultimate romance of Daemon and the adult Jaenelle is one of almost heart-wrenching innocence.<br /><br /> If you are searching for something different, something that will completely captivate you in the form of a world unlike any you have yet encountered in your literary journeys, The Black Jewels Trilogy stands ready to redefine your very conception of the literature of dark fantasy. This is fantasy that should appeal to women as well as men, for this is not just another work of fantasy built around warlike dwarves, ethereal elves, and heroic battles fought by stereotypical male characters. The Black Jewels Trilogy is literature of the highest order, more than earning author Anne Bishop the title I now personally bestow upon her: the Queen of Dark Fantasy.possesses. It is quite unlike anything I have ever read before, featuring wholly unique and fascinating characters in droves. There is no strict demarcation between good and evil here, as Bishop stands tradition on its head, giving even minor characters more life than I can find in most of my fellow human beings. Some may refer to the romance elements of this story in a condescending manner, and some might look askance at the love Daemon Sadi feels for a twelve-year-old Jaenelle, but this is no prurient tale of lust. The love these remarkable characters feel for one another is of remarkable, noble depth in all manner of different forms, and the ultimate romance of Daemon and the adult Jaenelle is one of almost heart-wrenching innocence.  <br />  <br /> If you are searching for something different, something that will completely captivate you in the form of a world unlike any you have yet encountered in your literary journeys, The Black Jewels Trilogy stands ready to redefine your very conception of the literature of dark fantasy. This is fantasy that should appeal to women as well as men, for this is not just another work of fantasy built around warlike dwarves, ethereal elves, and heroic battles fought by stereotypical male characters. The Black Jewels Trilogy is literature of the highest order, more than earning author Anne Bishop the title I now personally bestow upon her: the Queen of Dark Fantasy.	2004-07-24
583764:US	53016962	RR35G9PUD01O8	0915144247	763699786	Meno (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	3	8	N	N	One of Plato's most frustrating early dialogues	Meno is one of Plato's early and, to my mind, least successful, Socratic dialogues. The conversation centers, naturally enough, on virtue and whether or not it is teachable. Meno's definitions of virtue are woefully inadequate, by and large, and deserving of Socrates' typical arrogance. At one point, Meno says that one cannot learn about what one does not know. To counter this argument, Socrates, arguing that the soul is eternal and that learning is in fact recollection, sets about showing him how an ignorant slave &quot;remembers&quot; the answers to geometrical questions Socrates puts to him. Later, when Meno agrees with the notion that virtue is knowledge and can be taught, Socrates counters the point by saying he has yet to find anyone who truly practices virtue and is thus qualified to teach it. In the end, Socrates concludes that virtue cannot be taught and is in fact a gift of the gods.  Only the gods have true knowledge and can thus do nothing wrong, in Socrates' opinion.<br />The whole &quot;knowledge is recollection&quot; argument dominates my reaction to this dialogue, as the demonstration of geometrical knowledge involving a slave never sits well with me.  One should not really look for answers in Meno, as the whole dialogue ends with little more than open questions.  Many of the same ideas were developed much more completely in The Republic.	2004-07-19
585743:US	53016962	RGA54MIQP97X1	0441010393	621776744	Signals: The Exploration Chronicles, Book 1	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Entertaining despite a ton of flaws and weaknesses	Kevin D. Randle is well-known as a leading figure in ufology, spearheading the search for answers at Roswell, organizing and disseminating data on other reported UFO crashes, giving voice to a sometimes unpopular viewpoint on the subject of alien abduction, and generally examining UFO evidence in its larger context.  Drawing upon his knowledge of the UFO phenomenon and his military background, he has now launched a science fiction series dealing with man's first encounter with an alien race.  He is not going to be winning any awards for his fiction any time soon, as it demonstrates a number of noticeable weaknesses, yet I found Signals a rather exhilarating read despite all of its internal problems.<br />The whole plot of the novel is surprisingly far-fetched and, at times, bordering on the ridiculous.  It all starts with an announcement that a seemingly artificial signal has been detected from space.  Without verification, such word should never have even gotten out, but a collection of unscrupulous characters makes Mt. Everest out of an ant hill and seemingly engineers a self-fulfilling prophecy of unlikely proportions.  A state senator who wants to be a US senator takes the story, flimsy as it is, and builds a campaign on the dire threat posed by this alien ship.  An unscrupulous TV reporter puts together some misleading news reports in an attempt to get national attention, and a rather loathsome doctoral candidate lends the voice of authority to some extraordinarily unscientific claims.  The next thing you know there is rioting in the streets over nothing more than a possible anomaly some fifty light years away from Earth.  That gets the military and eventually the President involved, rushing to &quot;act.&quot;  They don't even care what the action is, just that the people see them taking charge.  Before you can say Roger Dodger, some rockets have been slapped on an old space station and a laughably incompetent set of astronauts are heading out to meet the alien ship.  I mentioned the self-fulfilling prophecy, as it turns out that there is an alien spaceship, it is traveling faster than light speed, and it is heading toward our solar system.<br />It's a good thing this book is identified as the first of a series because the ending is, to put it lightly, anticlimactic.  The words much ado about nothing come to mind here.  The biggest problem with the novel, though, is the characterization.  First of all, it's ridiculous that the ambitious state senator (we don't know what state) could run with this story so effectively; then you have the equally ambitious reporter who finds herself included in the mission to intercept the ship despite the fact that she does not know the difference between a galaxy and the solar system.  The one honorable and knowledgeable scientist has little influence, her assistants on the space flight include one guy who only minored in astronomy, and the military outlook on all this is flighty at best.  Randle struggles most with the physical descriptions of his characters, though, each of which is painfully bland and embarrassingly wooden.<br />Given Randle's strong background in both ufology and the military, I was actually quite surprised at the sense of implausibility pervading the entire novel.  A lot of important science is just ignored - thus, you have people &quot;running&quot; through a weightless space pod, no mention of navigating a ship through the asteroid belt, and a slapped-together spacecraft that seems to journey from Earth out to the Oort Cloud as if it were just a hop, skip, and a jump away.  Yet, as I said, I found Signals entertaining, and it held my interest throughout.  Randle is not a gifted writer of fiction, but the ideas of space flight and alien encounter that define this story may keep the reader interested despite all of the book's major flaws.n ship.  I mentioned the self-fulfilling prophecy, as it turns out that there is an alien spaceship, it is traveling faster than light speed, and it is heading toward our solar system.<br />It's a good thing this book is identified as the first of a series because the ending is, to put it lightly, anticlimactic.  The words much ado about nothing come to mind here.  The biggest problem with the novel, though, is the characterization.  First of all, it's ridiculous that the ambitious state senator (we don't know what state) could run with this story so effectively; then you have the equally ambitious reporter who finds herself included in the mission to intercept the ship despite the fact that she does not know the difference between a galaxy and the solar system.  The one honorable and knowledgeable scientist has little influence, her assistants on the space flight include one guy who only minored in astronomy, and the military outlook on all this is flighty at best.  Randle struggles most with the physical descriptions of his characters, though, each of which is painfully bland and embarrassingly wooden.<br />Given Randle's strong background in both ufology and the military, I was actually quite surprised at the sense of implausibility pervading the entire novel.  A lot of important science is just ignored - thus, you have people &quot;running&quot; through a weightless space pod, no mention of navigating a ship through the asteroid belt, and a slapped-together spacecraft that seems to journey from Earth out to the Oort Cloud as if it were just a hop, skip, and a jump away.  Yet, as I said, I found Signals entertaining, and it held my interest throughout.  Randle is not a gifted writer of fiction, but the ideas of space flight and alien encounter that define this story may keep the reader interested despite all of the book's major flaws.	2004-07-17
588360:US	53016962	R2L1DWHOASDSV4	0451451295	237445590	Battletech 03:  Falcon Guard: Legend of the Jade Phoenix	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Jade Phoenix enters the pantheon of legendary warriors	Falcon Guard completes The Legend of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy, the story of the remarkable Jade Falcon warrior Aidan Pryde.  He earned the bloodname of Pryde in Bloodname, but as this novel opens he has never been able to rid himself of the taint surrounding his name.  He was a trueborn warrior, but he earned his warrior status in a second, illegal Trial staged by his training commander Ter Roshak, posing as a freeborn to do it.  Although he later declared his true identity, earned the right to keep his warrior status, and went on to win a Bloodname against incredible odds, he still had not distanced himself from his scandalous history.  Even now that the long-awaited assault on the Inner Sphere has begun, his command has been relegated to mop-up actions far from the front lines of battle he yearns to fight in.  Until now, that is.<br />He has been given command of the Falcon Guard, a throwaway group of old warriors and insubordinate, troublesome fighters marked by a disgraceful defeat on the planet Twycross, but it still represents a chance to fight on the front lines for the glory of the Clans against the Inner Sphere planets - and to show how effective a commander he can be.  With his loyal freeborn friend Horse by his side, he calls upon Joanna, the Falconer who trained him and with whom he has had a long and complicated history, to whip the misfits into shape.  Among his new charges is his own daughter - although he does not know he has a daughter or, as a trueborn warrior born of artificial genetic manipulation, really even understand the concept of parenthood.<br />The battlefield of Tukayyid will determine the outcome of the Inner Sphere invasion; victory opens the way for the invasion of Terra itself, but defeat establishes a 15-year period during which the Clan can do nothing to advance their forces.  For Aidan Pryde, it is the chance to achieve the honor he has always sought, to remove forevermore the taint attached to his name, his career, and his genetic heritage.  Thurston brings the field of battle to vivid life in these pages, offering readers a thrilling look at a massive engagement of Battlemechs and warriors in a fight for victory, pride, and heritage.  It's a thrilling, satisfying conclusion to a classic Battletech storyline.tic heritage.  Thurston brings the field of battle to vivid life in these pages, offering readers a thrilling look at a massive engagement of Battlemechs and warriors in a fight for victory, pride, and heritage.  It's a thrilling, satisfying conclusion to a classic Battletech storyline.	2004-07-15
589629:US	53016962	RB4TMB4BJRIAT	0451451171	318463875	002: Battletech 02: Bloodname: Legend of the Jade Phoenix	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Classic Battletech at its very best	Reading Bloodname, the second book in The Jade Phoenix Trilogy, it is easy to see why the Battletech series has been so popular for so long.  This novel has battles galore, and the main characters, already well developed in the Way of the Clans, continue to grow in the fullest, most intriguing, of ways.  Battletech is about much more than armed conflict between gigantic behemoths piloted by warriors; Thurston delivers a penetrating study of clan society, human motivation within that society, and the type of heroism that is not limited to action on the battlefield.  As a relative newcomer to the Battletech universe, I was also delighted to find so many different kinds of Battlemechs involved in the action, as it gave me a most helpful footing in the technology and weapon-related tactics employed in this futuristic world.<br />Aidan is a remarkable protagonist - his dreams of becoming a warrior had seemingly been quashed by his last-minute failure in his Trial, but his commander had defied clan law by secretly giving him a second chance.  The catch had been that he must compete under the identity of a freeborn cadet.  In clan society, freeborns are treated as second-class citizens, even those who manage to earn the name of warrior.  This war-focused society creates its best warriors through the artificial manipulation of the genetic material of trueborn warriors - it is the hope and dream of each trueborn warrior that he earn a Bloodname and thus contribute his/her own material to the gene pool.  Aidan very much wants to earn his own Bloodname, but this honor is now forbidden him given his new existence as a freeborn.  While Aidan actually finds a happier life among freeborn compatriots, his pride and ambition refuses to let him give up his dreams of securing the Pryde Bloodname.<br />Now stationed on Glory Point, Aidan finally gets the chance to engage in real combat when a contingent of soldiers from the Wolf Clan seeks to steal the genetic legacy of the base commander there.  He is also reunited with Falconer Joanna, under whom he studied in warrior training.  Joanna hates him for many reasons, yet she somehow becomes a strange ally of sorts when Aidan lets the proverbial cat out of the bag.  Not only does he announce the fact that he is in fact a trueborn, he demands the right to compete for a Bloodname.  The odds are stacked heavily against him, as he must face a Court of Falconers just to maintain his warrior status and then, if he makes it through that, earn a spot in the Bloodname competition in a massive melee of competitors - and, even if he wins the spot, he still faces the Trial of Bloodright, the actual tournament for the right to the Pryde Bloodname.  There is also the added difficulty of his opponents' fiery hatred for him - the only thing the trueborn hate more than a freeborn is a trueborn who earned his warrior status in the guise of a freeborn.<br />Bloodname is the best Battletech novel I have read so far.  The characters are immensely complex, especially Aidan and Joanna, and each of the many Battlemech engagements is even more exciting than the last.  You'll want to read Way of the Clans, the first book of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy, before this one, and then you will surely want to dive immediately into Falcon Guard, the third and final book of the series.ander there.  He is also reunited with Falconer Joanna, under whom he studied in warrior training.  Joanna hates him for many reasons, yet she somehow becomes a strange ally of sorts when Aidan lets the proverbial cat out of the bag.  Not only does he announce the fact that he is in fact a trueborn, he demands the right to compete for a Bloodname.  The odds are stacked heavily against him, as he must face a Court of Falconers just to maintain his warrior status and then, if he makes it through that, earn a spot in the Bloodname competition in a massive melee of competitors - and, even if he wins the spot, he still faces the Trial of Bloodright, the actual tournament for the right to the Pryde Bloodname.  There is also the added difficulty of his opponents' fiery hatred for him - the only thing the trueborn hate more than a freeborn is a trueborn who earned his warrior status in the guise of a freeborn.<br />Bloodname is the best Battletech novel I have read so far.  The characters are immensely complex, especially Aidan and Joanna, and each of the many Battlemech engagements is even more exciting than the last.  You'll want to read Way of the Clans, the first book of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy, before this one, and then you will surely want to dive immediately into Falcon Guard, the third and final book of the series.	2004-07-14
590877:US	53016962	R1CRS9J100QKSZ	059530205X	109707114	One Lord, One Truth, One Faith: The Only Legacy Worth Leaving	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One man's challenging search for Biblical truth	One Lord, One Truth, One Faith is quite an unusual little book.  Maurie Daigneau originally wrote the book for his sons and daughters, and he retained that frame of reference for publication to a wider audience.  This works for and against the book to some degree, but the main thing it does is to reinforce the very personal nature of the truths Daigneau is attempting to express and the strength of his layman's commitment to an intense study of the Bible.  I would argue that you do need to be a believer and have a decent understanding of Christianity before tackling this book.  The author goes into great detail in places, dissecting a number of Biblical passages in an intense effort to get at the roots of their original meanings.  While he does offer some effectively simple analogies to get his points across, those without grounding in the matters at hand may well find themselves quite lost.<br />This book offers Christians an unusual means for challenging their faith.  As a Christian myself, my own reaction to the book is a mixed one.  I have no qualms about the suggestions the author lays out for leading a truly Christian life, and I in fact found several bits of insight in the body of his message.  In my own case, however, I have to say that Daigneau goes against some important tenets of my own faith.  Much of it comes down to the old faith vs. works argument, as Daigneau seems to say that faith alone is insufficient, that the salvation taught by the Christian church is not what it appears to be.  The Holy Spirit enters your heart when you are saved, Daigneau says, but faith and belief alone won't get you into heaven.  It is not enough to know God - you must live in Christ so that God will know you; otherwise, the &quot;guarantee&quot; of salvation is really only &quot;hope.&quot;  Thus, the author is saying that the Christian church is teaching a misleading if not outright false doctrine when it says faith alone is all that is required for complete salvation, andit is here that Daigneau goes across a line I for one will not cross.  It does a Christian good to ponder the questions Daigneau poses, and to his credit he insists that the reader study the Word on his/her own rather than accept his or anyone else's word on the matter, but his obvious dissatisfaction with Christian churches may serve as an impediment to many.  <br />Daigneau makes extensive use of Scripture, quoting and analyzing one passage after another.  The reader, of course, can (and probably should) do the same thing.  The author's preferred translation, the New American Standard Bible, is far from my favorite choice, and I must say I interpret a number of the referenced passages differently than does the author.  This may be one of the main benefits of the book - even if you disagree with some of the author's points, it leads you back into the pages of the Bible itself, and that is where salvation can truly be found.  While I personally disagree rather strongly with some of Daigneau's main arguments, I have no trouble describing this as a book containing potential benefits and insights to all Christian readers.	2004-07-13
592235:US	53016962	R21Q9U5WQ1461U	0451451589	675301003	Way of the Clans (Battletech)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An illuminating look at the making of a Jade Falcon warrior	The Battletech Universe can seem a little complicated for those new to the series; there are so many books covering different historical eras and personalities, almost all of which are related in one way or another, that one hardly knows where to begin.  You basically have to study Battletech history in order to fully understand each book's place in that history.  I speak from personal experience here, as I'm still new to these books myself.  I don't know if Way of the Clans is a good starting point in terms of the timeline, but it's certainly a good starting point in the sense that it draws the reader right into the world of Battletech with a fascinating story.  Not only does Way of the Clans introduce you to the clan structure of the outer worlds of the Sphere, it takes you all the way through one young man's training to become a MechWarrior.<br />Back in the twenty-eighth century, Aleksandr Kerensky took all of his supporters and established his own society outside the Inner Sphere; with the intention of one day returning and re-establishing the old government, Nicholas Kerensky began developing the most dangerous soldiers possible.  The society is built almost solely upon the central importance of warfare, and it is the dream of every child to become a warrior.  Some are bred for the task, and the highest honor a warrior can achieve is the acquisition of a Bloodname and inclusion in the genetic warrior pool.  The trueborn are artificially created via genetic engineering from the bloodlines of the most accomplished warriors, and these youngsters are all raised and trained together from birth.  Each sibko may only produce one or two warriors, however - only the very best succeed, while the others are killed or assigned to work among the lower castes.  Freeborns, those born by natural means, also can earn warrior status, but their lower caste forbids them from fighting on the front lines.<br />Aidan Pryde is a trueborn who wants desperately to earn warrior status in the Jade Falcon clan (which numbers among the mightiest of all the clans) to which he was born, but he is a little different from the other members of his genetic grouping, or sibko.  We follow him all the way through the warrior training program, which culminates in the Trial that determines whether or not he will earn the right to lead a monstrous Battletech in battle.  The way of the clans makes for an almost unendurable struggle to earn one's place among the warrior caste; here, the individual is stressed over the group mentality, and a true warrior is expected to do anything to reach his/her objectives.  Alongside the story of Aidan's perilous journey into adulthood we get insightful journal entries from the camp commander enlightening us on the theory and practice of the mysterious ways of the clan.  This coming of age story is bursting at the seams with action and remarkable insights into clan society, making it a truly compelling addition to the Battletech Universe.  Those eager to learn what happens to Aidan Pryde following the rather remarkable events chronicled here are in luck, as this is just the first of three novels in the Legend of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy.us in the Jade Falcon clan (which numbers among the mightiest of all the clans) to which he was born, but he is a little different from the other members of his genetic grouping, or sibko.  We follow him all the way through the warrior training program, which culminates in the Trial that determines whether or not he will earn the right to lead a monstrous Battletech in battle.  The way of the clans makes for an almost unendurable struggle to earn one's place among the warrior caste; here, the individual is stressed over the group mentality, and a true warrior is expected to do anything to reach his/her objectives.  Alongside the story of Aidan's perilous journey into adulthood we get insightful journal entries from the camp commander enlightening us on the theory and practice of the mysterious ways of the clan.  This coming of age story is bursting at the seams with action and remarkable insights into clan society, making it a truly compelling addition to the Battletech Universe.  Those eager to learn what happens to Aidan Pryde following the rather remarkable events chronicled here are in luck, as this is just the first of three novels in the Legend of the Jade Phoenix Trilogy.	2004-07-13
595121:US	53016962	R242D44OPII2VK	0451459733	288678540	Choice of the Cat: Book Two of the Vampire Earth	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Way of the Wolf was great; Choice of the Cat is even better	Way of the Wolf was a bold, exciting beginning to what is definitely shaping up to be an innovative, compelling dark fantasy series from the pen of E.E. Knight.  Choice of the Cat takes the heroic journey of protagonist David Valentine in an entirely new direction, one conducive to even more suspenseful action than before.  Many a young writer finds it difficult to recreate the magic of a successful first novel, but E.E. Knight has come through with an impressive follow-up sure to delight all fans of dark fantasy and hair-raising heroic adventure.<br />The setting for The Vampire Earth series is a post-apocalyptic earth of the mid- to late-twenty-first century.  Back in 2022, up to 90% of the human population perished as a result of the terrible Ravies plague, but this was just the beginning of Earth's struggle.  The Kur, an alien civilization made up of vampiric creatures who feed on the life aura of others, quickly subjugated large portions of the earth.  The Kur's most deadly weapons are the Reapers, terrifying, alien beasts through whom the Kur absorb the auras of their victims.  Three types of human beings emerged from the apocalypse: those who betray their species and assist the Kur, those who are outwardly ambivalent to the Kur and just try to stay out of trouble, and those willing to fight and die for humanity.  David Valentine is one of the latter.  After the massacre of his family, the young boy went on to follow in his father's footsteps by becoming a Wolf, a member of the military first line of defense of the Ozark Free Zone.  As this novel opens, Valentine is assigned to a new unit of soldiers and forced to hold off an enemy attack on orders of his superior officer; when that officer is injured, command falls to Valentine, who oversees a retreat by his outnumbered men based on his own informed decision and the intelligence he receives from a Cat (a warrior spy).  Much to Valentine's (and my own) surprise, he soon finds himself facing a court-martial for disobeying orders.  A tough choice between leaving the Wolves and staying to fight the military justice system is made a good bit easier when the Cat he met in battle offers him a chance to become a Cat himself.<br />Soon, Valentine is off to partake of some incredibly demanding training with his mentor Alessa Duvalier (code name: Smoke) as well as an intense initiation into the order; this induction into the Cats increases his senses and abilities many times over.  For some time, Valentine has been deeply interested in a mysterious group of enemies identified by a Twisted Cross, but his reports and inquiries have not seemed to generate much attention in Southern Command.  His first mission as a Cat, working alongside his new mentor and friend, involves going into the Kurian zone and gathering intelligence on this seemingly specialized group of enemies.  Before he's done, he gets an up-close and personal look at the whole nefarious organization.<br />There is a great deal of action in this novel.  Whereas Wolves act in concert with one another, Cats basically work alone (unless they are training a new recruit such as Valentine).  Valentine has always been a fighter, and there is still a good bit of Wolf left in this young Cat; even though his mission is to listen and learn, he cannot abandon innocents when he thinks he can save them.  There are lots of skirmishes and one humdinger of a fight before the novel draws to a close, and the addition of the most unlikely of allies further energizes this gripping story about two-thirds of the way through.  This novel does end, but I feel as if the writer has just taken a moment to catch his breath, and I eagerly await the chance to sink my teeth into Book 3 of The Vampire Earth series when it is published.<br />Don't let the word Vampire in the book series name throw you; this is in no way a &quot;vampire novel,&quot; for the Kur are unlike any vampires you have ever encountered.  Knight is adept at creating living, breathing characters that will captivate your spirit and engulf you in their dangerous and heroic feats.  This is a unique and wonderfully entertaining novel that truly delivers while promising even greater things to come.athing characters that will captivate your spirit and engulf you in their dangerous and heroic feats.  This is a unique and wonderfully entertaining novel that truly delivers while promising even greater things to come.	2004-07-10
599955:US	53016962	RL8NVTRKRU2C6	0912627271	45975889	Fort Moultrie: Constant Defender (Handbook)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The history of Charleston's most significant fort	Fort Sumter gets most of the attention when it comes to coastal fortifications protecting the harbor at Charleston, South Carolina, but long before Fort Sumter was built another fort, located on the strategically crucial Sullivans Island, played its part in the history of Charleston, the state of South Carolina, and the nation itself.  This 1978 volume, published by the Government Printing Office, tells the story of Fort Moultrie's history.  As the American Revolution began running hot, a General Moultrie insisted that he could defend Charleston from an incomplete fort located on Sullivans Island - any invading ship basically had to come right by the island thanks to the sandbars and other hazards of the harbor.  His superiors did not agree and were about to replace General Moultrie when fate intervened in the form of British ships coming over the horizon.  Much to the surprise of everyone (except Moultrie, for whom the fort would be named), the fort's firepower repelled the British attack.  This put a real monkey wrench in Britain's plans for a Southern campaign in 1776 and helped inspire the nation in the giddy days surrounding the writing of the Declaration of Independence.  Fort Moultrie and Charleston fell three years later, but Fort Moultrie would rise again.<br />Life at Fort Moultrie seemed to go in cycles; in between wars, the fort was neglected and, on a number of occasions, battered badly by hurricanes.  In times of potential conflict, the fort would be rebuilt or repaired, oftentimes falling back into neglect all too soon - as, for example, in the period leading up to the War of 1812.  The Nullification Crisis of 1832 saw the fort thriving momentarily, but not until the War Between the States would Fort Moultrie return to the headlines.  It played a crucial role in forcing the surrender of federal troops at Fort Sumter in the first days of the War (the Union troops who had been occupying the fort actually snuck away to Fort Sumter in the middle of the night before the fighting even began).  Several advances into the harbor by Union ships met with stalemate or rebuff, and Rebel soldiers only abandoned the fort in the final days of the War when Confederate defeat was already assured.<br />As the decades passed, the fort saw usage as a training center, until it was finally deactivated in 1947 - new tactics and the rise of aircraft carriers had finally, after almost two centuries of service, made the fort obsolete.  Over the course of its history, Fort Moultrie offers an object lesson of sorts in the evolution of coastal fortification.  A number of famous men served at Fort Moultrie over the years, including the scourge of the South (we do not speak his name), General George C. Marshall, and Edgar Allen Poe.  Poe actually refers to the old fort in several of his stories.  With a plentiful supply of illustrations and photographs, this history of Fort Moultrie is in no way boring, and a great deal of information on the history of American warfare can be found in these 92 pages.ght before the fighting even began).  Several advances into the harbor by Union ships met with stalemate or rebuff, and Rebel soldiers only abandoned the fort in the final days of the War when Confederate defeat was already assured.  <br />As the decades passed, the fort saw usage as a training center, until it was finally deactivated in 1947 - new tactics and the rise of aircraft carriers had finally, after almost two centuries of service, made the fort obsolete.  Over the course of its history, Fort Moultrie offers an object lesson of sorts in the evolution of coastal fortification.  A number of famous men served at Fort Moultrie over the years, including the scourge of the South (we do not speak his name), General George C. Marshall, and Edgar Allen Poe.  Poe actually refers to the old fort in several of his stories.  With a plentiful supply of illustrations and photographs, this history of Fort Moultrie is in no way boring, and a great deal of information on the history of American warfare can be found in these 92 pages.	2004-07-07
602421:US	53016962	R2C3E9C7MGFTM4	080784070X	928305019	The Devil's Tramping Ground and Other North Carolina Mystery Stories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating collection of Tarheel mysteries	Seeing as how &quot;I'm a Tarheel born, I'm a Tarheel bred, and when I die I'm a Tarheel dead,&quot; I am of course fascinated by the legends and stories of the Old North State, just as John Harden was.  In 1946 and 1947, Harden hosted a radio show called Tales of Tarheelia, in which he recounted many of the state's legendary stories and mysteries.  Interest in that radio series and Harden's commitment to preserving these stories that could be lost forever if not put down in writing led to the publication of this book, The Devil's Tramping Ground and Other North Carolina Mystery Stories, in 1949.  One should note the fact that the stories collected here are indeed mysteries as opposed to, say, ghost stories (of which North Carolina can boast of her fair share); these stories won't give you the creeps, but they will fascinate you and sharpen whatever interest you have in the history of the state of North Carolina.<br />When you talk about North Carolina mysteries, you must of course start at the very beginning - the Lost Colony.  The first English settlement in the New World was made in the late 16th century at Roanoke, and it was here that the first non-native American child was born (Virginia Dare); when the long-delayed supply ship returned to these shores, the entire colony had disappeared completely, leaving behind a single clue as to the colonists' fate: the carving of the word Croatoan on a tree.  This, North America's first mystery, remains as compelling and unsolved today as it was over four hundred years ago.  The famous Brown Mountain Lights of western North Carolina, of which many may have heard, necessarily earn a chapter.  The Devil's Tramping Ground to which the title refers is a circular spot of land in Chatham County in which the devil is said to pace each night as he thinks up his evil plans.  The circle has a diameter of forty feet, and nothing will grow inside it; also, any material placed inside the circle will disappear overnight.  A similar story involves the Magic Horse Tracks in the town of Bath; this series of holes remain fresh and unobscured after some two hundred years, and legend says they were made by the hoof prints of a horse whose owner asked him to either win the horse race he was engaging in (on the Sabbath, no less) or take him straight to hell - the horse obviously chose the latter by immediately barreling into a tree, killing his sacrilegious rider.  You will read of deserted ships that mysteriously came to shore through the treacherous waters of the North Carolina Outer Banks, strange and unexplained disappearances of several individuals, the legend I must assume all new students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill continue to be told about (I was, but that was back in 1988) related to the present site of Gimghoul Castle, a couple of botanical mysteries, several stories related to animals, and a number of others miscellaneous tales.<br />I must admit that I was unfamiliar with several of these stories, although many were well known to me.  One of the most interesting tales involves the identity of a schoolmaster of Rowan County; there is plenty of evidence that this man, Peter Stuart Ney, was in fact Marshal Ney of France, one of Napoleon's most trusted military strategists.  Marshal Ney was, history tells us, executed by a firing squad after Napoleon's downfall, but rumors abound that his execution was in fact a hoax.<br />While the caliber of the twenty mysteries chronicled here varies somewhat, only a couple of them failed to fascinate me.  Naturally, those with no association with North Carolina won't feel the connection I feel to the material, but anyone interested in the legends and mysteries of former times should find much to interest them in this engaging collection of Tarheel mysteries.ry involves the Magic Horse Tracks in the town of Bath; this series of holes remain fresh and unobscured after some two hundred years, and legend says they were made by the hoof prints of a horse whose owner asked him to either win the horse race he was engaging in (on the Sabbath, no less) or take him straight to hell - the horse obviously chose the latter by immediately barreling into a tree, killing his sacrilegious rider.  You will read of deserted ships that mysteriously came to shore through the treacherous waters of the North Carolina Outer Banks, strange and unexplained disappearances of several individuals, the legend I must assume all new students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill continue to be told about (I was, but that was back in 1988) related to the present site of Gimghoul Castle, a couple of botanical mysteries, several stories related to animals, and a number of others miscellaneous tales.<br />I must admit that I was unfamiliar with several of these stories, although many were well known to me.  One of the most interesting tales involves the identity of a schoolmaster of Rowan County; there is plenty of evidence that this man, Peter Stuart Ney, was in fact Marshal Ney of France, one of Napoleon's most trusted military strategists.  Marshal Ney was, history tells us, executed by a firing squad after Napoleon's downfall, but rumors abound that his execution was in fact a hoax.  <br />While the caliber of the twenty mysteries chronicled here varies somewhat, only a couple of them failed to fascinate me.  Naturally, those with no association with North Carolina won't feel the connection I feel to the material, but anyone interested in the legends and mysteries of former times should find much to interest them in this engaging collection of Tarheel mysteries.	2004-07-05
603099:US	53016962	R1L1TJEW0W60E0	0886779014	557265671	Book Of Fire (Dragon Quartet)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Takes the series to a whole new level - and then some	The Book of Fire, the third book in Marjorie B. Kellogg's Dragon Quartet, takes the series to a whole new level, closing out with a most thrilling final hundred pages full of emotion and rife with surprises.  This is a much different book than its predecessors The Book of Earth and The Book of Water (each of which you really must read before beginning this novel), largely because the dragon in question here, Fire, could not be more unlike his siblings.  In terms of setting the stage, one must know that four dragons (Earth, Water, Fire, and Air) created the world and then began a long sleep from which they would awaken only at the end of that world.  Something has gone horribly wrong with the world they created, though, and they have each awakened, apart and with limited knowledge of their histories.  We met Earth and his dragon guide Erde in the Germanies of 913, Water and her guide N'Doch in the Africa of 2013, and now the shared quest of the dragons takes us, in answer to the summons they hear, to an earth even farther in the future and a dragon sibling who has traded any thoughts of his purpose for the trappings of power as an awesome god among men.<br />This future time is one of great misery, as only a few habitable regions remain on the ecologically ravaged planet.  The first two dragons' suspicions about their brother Fire prove accurate; putting the lie to any notion that all dragons are good and noble, Fire terrorizes the people as a god and keeps his dragon guide Paia in complete ignorance as the high priestess of his temple.  Erde, N'Doch, Water, and Earth do not come alone to this world, however, as Erde feels compelled to bring Baron Kothen with them.  Kothen's ties to Erde's enemies at home have been broken now, leaving him a broken man, yet Erde knows instinctively that this man she has dreamed about and come to love is a necessary component in the puzzle of the dragon quest.  Each of the main characters grows tremendously, none more so than N'Doch, much to my pleasure (for I was never able to really connect with him in the previous novel).  Kothen's transformation in the latter stages of the tale is most welcome indeed, N'Doch steps up to become the kind of leader I wanted him to be, and Erde herself continues to grow in boldness and authority - although, to my sadness, heartache seems to remain her constant companion.<br />This novel features a much more elaborate plot than what has come before in the series, and Kellogg managed to genuinely surprise me with a few twists in the latter stages of this book.  Fire is a magnificent, albeit misguided, dragon, and his story is far from complete as of yet - there is little feeling of closure here, setting the stage for what I hope will be a real humdinger of a conclusion in the fourth and final Book of Air.  Filled with wonderful characters who grow and mature before our very eyes, The Book of Fire is a thrilling, absorbing read that builds upon and transforms the story as we have known it up to this point.  The Dragon Guide circle may be complete, but the essence of the dragon quest, the whereabouts of the mighty dragon Air, and the future role Fire will play in events are all quite up in the air - not to mention the futures of these wonderful human characters and the outcomes of several tragic events going on still in the times and places from which they came.uch to my pleasure (for I was never able to really connect with him in the previous novel).  Kothen's transformation in the latter stages of the tale is most welcome indeed, N'Doch steps up to become the kind of leader I wanted him to be, and Erde herself continues to grow in boldness and authority - although, to my sadness, heartache seems to remain her constant companion.  <br />This novel features a much more elaborate plot than what has come before in the series, and Kellogg managed to genuinely surprise me with a few twists in the latter stages of this book.  Fire is a magnificent, albeit misguided, dragon, and his story is far from complete as of yet - there is little feeling of closure here, setting the stage for what I hope will be a real humdinger of a conclusion in the fourth and final Book of Air.  Filled with wonderful characters who grow and mature before our very eyes, The Book of Fire is a thrilling, absorbing read that builds upon and transforms the story as we have known it up to this point.  The Dragon Guide circle may be complete, but the essence of the dragon quest, the whereabouts of the mighty dragon Air, and the future role Fire will play in events are all quite up in the air - not to mention the futures of these wonderful human characters and the outcomes of several tragic events going on still in the times and places from which they came.	2004-07-05
605849:US	53016962	R2G02JJ3R7STYV	0595305873	573189610	Park Avenue Rich	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast-paced, entertaining read	R.J. Revaitis' Park Avenue Rich is an entertaining read that perseveres through a few speed bumps here and there and manages to impart a dose of the magical elixir of expectation and suspense on the reader as he/she nears the end of this relatively short novel.  The author gives you a heavy dose of the stuff too hot for TV's Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous, rich brats doing what they do best and lecherous entertainers engaging in all manner of ribald debauchery (you know - sex, drugs, that whole scene).  There are no innocents in this lineup.  Naivet&eacute; does exist in copious amounts, however, and that's where a handsome stranger named Jimmy Cavanaugh comes in.  Young heiress Freddie von Eckhardt has just returned home to New York from a jet-setting week of rich-former-boyfriend-forgetting.  Before she can get back into her old hedonistic groove, however, she agrees to accompany her best friend Alexandra to a charity soir&eacute;e.  Bored out of her pretty little mind, she encounters handsome young Jimmy Cavanaugh and soon escapes the stifling benefit with him to partake in some adults-only clubbing.  So begins the love affair of poor dumb Freddie's young life.  She is always wary of men trying to woo her for her money, but she knows Jimmy is filthy rich already.  How does she know this?  Why, because that is what he tells her.  That's all the proof Freddie seems to need.  After giving her a big shuck and jive about his filthy rich origins in Toronto, Jimmy happens to mention he's in town raising money for a kicking new club in Miami Beach.  Soon, Freddie is convincing friends and acquaintances to buy into the project.  Jimmy says it's going to be a really great club, and that's all it takes to part several fools for their money.<br />While Jimmy is building up a potentially big nest egg for himself, Scotland Yard is on the case of a missing wealthy woman and her younger lover.  The chief detective is not Sherlock Holmes; he's not even Inspector Lestrade.  Eventually, though, he learns that his suspect is a notorious con man who has been fleecing (and now, for the first time, killing) his way through Europe.  All roads lead to a potentially exciting conclusion, and I found myself worrying about Freddie despite myself.  The ending turned out a lot differently than I expected, so that's a point in the author's favor.<br />The style of this novel is interesting in a couple of ways.  First, it is a novel devoid of a single good guy; I guess the cops are good guys, but they are just bit players in this drama.  More strangely, however, there really doesn't seem to be a true protagonist here.  One could perhaps pick Jimmy or Freddie as the main character, but I never really felt the type of connection to either of them that I would associate with a true protagonist.  In places, the author chose to abandon his lead characters all together and delve into the details of secondary characters' lives, past and present; I'm not sure the story as it is required such a high degree of detail in these areas.  Still, the novel was an entertaining and reasonably quick read, and the author always managed to recapture my attention after my emergence from each little detour along the way.ugh, he learns that his suspect is a notorious con man who has been fleecing (and now, for the first time, killing) his way through Europe.  All roads lead to a potentially exciting conclusion, and I found myself worrying about Freddie despite myself.  The ending turned out a lot differently than I expected, so that's a point in the author's favor.<br />The style of this novel is interesting in a couple of ways.  First, it is a novel devoid of a single good guy; I guess the cops are good guys, but they are just bit players in this drama.  More strangely, however, there really doesn't seem to be a true protagonist here.  One could perhaps pick Jimmy or Freddie as the main character, but I never really felt the type of connection to either of them that I would associate with a true protagonist.  In places, the author chose to abandon his lead characters all together and delve into the details of secondary characters' lives, past and present; I'm not sure the story as it is required such a high degree of detail in these areas.  Still, the novel was an entertaining and reasonably quick read, and the author always managed to recapture my attention after my emergence from each little detour along the way.	2004-07-02
609272:US	53016962	RKPB3OP7K2M9T	0886776880	808943530	The Book of Water (Dragon Quartet, Vol. Two)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Much less engaging than the first entry in the series	The Book of Water, the second novel in the Dragon Quartet, is an exceedingly different novel than its predecessor The Book of Water.  This is largely explained by the fact that the setting has changed from the Germanies of 913 to an African country in the year 2013.  Admittedly, I was deeply rooted into the Middle Ages account of the first book and very much in harmony with young Erde and the Dragon Earth.  So, so much seemed to happen in that novel.  The Book of Water is exact same number of pages, but very little seemed to happen this time around.  The new Dragon Guide we meet here is also very difficult to like, and that above all else diminished the impact of this novel for me personally.  Erde went about everything with complete sincerity, but this new Guide, despite Erde's (not to mention two dragons') influences upon him, does not seem to have a sincere bone in his body.<br />When the world was created, four dragons (Earth, Water, Fire, and Air) were created to do the work, after which point they went to ground, to sleep until this world they had created ended.  Now, the dragons are reawakening, answering a summons they do not yet understand and remembering only bits and pieces of their own history.  Each of the four books in the series gives us a newly reawakened dragon and his/her Dragon Guide.  Water is the older sister of Earth, and her special dragon ability is shape-shifting.  Earth and Erde have responded to a summons and jumped from 913 to 2013 to join forces with Water and her guide.  N'doch is Erde's exact opposite; there is always a culture clash when a baron's daughter from 913 meets up with a street-smart dreamer from an environmentally abused earth of 2013, but N'doch can never seem to get his head together.  In the first several chapters (and this becomes increasingly annoying to the reader), he thinks his introduction to Erde and the two dragons is some kind of Candid Camera setup, and he oftentimes has the remarkable ability to forget, despite the proximity of his new companions, that dragons actually exist - and not just during those times that Water has shape-shifted herself into the image of a human.  Each time you think he finally sees the light, he returns to the same selfish person interested only in his own future and dreams, never fully accepting his responsibilities as a dragon guide.<br />Very little actually happens here, and the action of the second half of the novel is just a little too far &quot;out there&quot; for my tastes.  Erde was in constant danger and surrounded by incredibly important acts and events in the first novel, but our main characters here just seem to bumble around, oftentimes with no real sense of purpose, and hide on a few occasions.  Without the steadying influence of Erde and Earth, this novel might have developed into a true free-or-all.  The author made things a little worse than they could have been by choosing to present N'doch's story from a third person present tense.  This seems an entirely unnecessary and sometimes clumsy way to distinguish between the remarkably different perspectives of N'doch and Erde.  Thank goodness for Erde's dreams, I must add, as they retain for the reader a strong link to the events still going on in her own time of 913 - that is where the true action and suspense in this series lies - at least so far.e the proximity of his new companions, that dragons actually exist - and not just during those times that Water has shape-shifted herself into the image of a human.  Each time you think he finally sees the light, he returns to the same selfish person interested only in his own future and dreams, never fully accepting his responsibilities as a dragon guide.<br />Very little actually happens here, and the action of the second half of the novel is just a little too far &quot;out there&quot; for my tastes.  Erde was in constant danger and surrounded by incredibly important acts and events in the first novel, but our main characters here just seem to bumble around, oftentimes with no real sense of purpose, and hide on a few occasions.  Without the steadying influence of Erde and Earth, this novel might have developed into a true free-or-all.  The author made things a little worse than they could have been by choosing to present N'doch's story from a third person present tense.  This seems an entirely unnecessary and sometimes clumsy way to distinguish between the remarkably different perspectives of N'doch and Erde.  Thank goodness for Erde's dreams, I must add, as they retain for the reader a strong link to the events still going on in her own time of 913 - that is where the true action and suspense in this series lies - at least so far.	2004-06-30
613477:US	53016962	R27E9GX1I9E1L1	0886775744	364857519	The Book of Earth (Dragon Quartet, Vol. One)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The rich and enchanting beginning of The Dragon Quartet	I have not read a lot of dragon-related fantasy before, so I can't really compare Marjorie B. Kellogg with the likes of Anne McCaffrey.  What I can say, however, is that The Book of Earth, the first book of The Dragon Quartet, struck me as a wonderfully rich and original novel.  The dragon is not your typical dragon, nor is the protagonist of the book your typical Dragon Guide.  I was actually rather surprised by the depth of emotion and tragedy that went in to the core of this novel, as young Erde truly suffers a great deal at the beginning of the story.  Her relationship with the dragon and the manner in which the two of them communicate, however, was really quite beautiful.  And if you're looking for action, you'll find plenty of it here, building up to a much-anticipated, thrilling conclusion that differs significantly from what I was expecting.<br />Erde von Alte is the 14-year-old daughter of a baron living in the German principalities in the year 913.  Just as she is beginning to make the transition from childhood to womanhood, though, her world falls apart around her.  Her grandmother, the baroness, has just died, and Brother Guillemo of Rome has arrived to oversee the funeral.  Guillemo's reputation precedes him, as he is going around speaking of great evil in the land, making great prophecies about dragons and other devilish creatures.  Dragons have always been a part of the von Alte tradition, however, and Erde has long delighted in dreams of her very own dragon.  She recognizes the good Brother for the dangerous individual he is, and she is devastated when he accuses her of improper behavior (you know what I mean) and witchcraft.  Soon, her less than loving father is under the spell of the friar, the people she loves are dead or dying, and she is held a virtual prisoner in her room.  She manages to escape and runs off into the cold forest, losing her voice as a result of the trauma she endures in the process.  In the depths of a secret cave, she encounters a dragon, and this dragon immediately attaches herself to her.  His name is Earth, and he really does not know what his purpose is - all dragons are supposed to have a reason to exist, so it just remains for Earth and his Dragon Guide to figure out what he is supposed to do.  He doesn't even know what powers he possesses, but as the two begin their journey together he begins to remember things and eventually recognizes a summons beckoning him to some as yet unidentified place.  The pair meet up with a knight of the much-beleaguered king, and the trio embark on a journey that basically brings Erde full circle before it is finished.  The dragon learns, grows, and becomes more enchanting as time goes by, finally identifying the source of his summons at the very end of the book (which leads fluidly into the next book of the series).<br />This is a wonderfully human story, sometimes heartbreaking, sometimes wonderful, but always vivid and magnificent.  The malevolent aims of Brother Guillemo and the resulting baronial revolt against the king take precedence over the ultimate quest of Erde and Earth, but each character fully comes into his/her own by the end of the book.  The novel is rather dark at times, which I found a little surprising, but this only makes the world more real.  There was one surprise at the end that I initially viewed with doubt, but it actually made for a melodramatically powerful end to Erde's life-changing adventure.<br />The story of Erde and Earth does not end here, of course.  Each of the four books in the series is devoted to one of the four dragons that basically created the earth: Earth, Water, Fire, and Air.  Not until the end of this world were the dragons to be reawakened, and the reader really knows little at this point about the reawakening of these magical creatures.  The Book of Earth has a wholly satisfying ending, but the story of the dragons is only just beginning.  The Dragon Quartet has the makings of a truly impressive fantasyseries.series.	2004-06-27
613757:US	53016962	R269REC4E7PW1F	0300101716	143729112	Inventing A Nation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson	Books	2	20	44	N	N	Political propaganda disguised as history	You might look at Gore Vidal's Inventing a Nation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson and think you are gazing upon a book of history.  Oh, there is an element of history to it - albeit a messy, unorganized one - but Inventing a Nation is really about two things only: Gore Vidal's glorified opinion of himself and his hatred for George W. Bush.  Most hate mongers and political pundits would simply come write out and attack the current administration, but Gore Vidal is far too pretentious and smarmy to take the common man's approach to political protest.  Perhaps he hoped to cleverly disguise his political screed by masking it in the history of the founding of this great Republic (he does, after all, consider the majority of Americans stupid enough to believe anything they are told), but his gleeful delight at stepping aside every few pages to launch vicious attacks on just about everyone associated with America betrays the true nature of his work.<br />Let's look at this book as history and see why I personally say that Inventing a Nation is a perfect example of how not to write it.  This could have been an informative work, for Vidal sets out to explain just how contentious and vulnerable the new nation was in its earliest days.  He quotes extensively from the writings and speeches of prominent Revolutionaries to reveal the sorts of grudges, bitter disagreements, and questionable behavior these men sometimes engaged in.  Unfortunately, he never really builds an adequate framework on which to make his presentation.  In his eagerness to dish out dirt on our Founding Fathers, he fails to establish the true context of the times (which is ironic, given his unabashed lament over the ignorance of the American people).  He also fails to identify a single source for any of his quotations and references; he does not even provide a bibliography of sources consulted.  Thus, all of the quotes he throws around are presented in a manner completely devoid of context, and the reader has no easy way of verifying a single thing he reads here.  Vidal also jumps around in time and place continuously.  We can be with Jefferson the French diplomat one minute and then, quite suddenly, find ourselves examining President Jefferson's purchase of Louisiana.  Poor John Adams is thrown around so violently that he would surely sue Vidal for whiplash, were he alive today.<br />I will admit that Vidal does manage to put together some valid points and arguments, but he continually nullifies the good he has done with bouts of infuriatingly sophomoric insults and name-calling, not to mention numerous departures from the subject at hand to fan the flames of his fiery political manifesto.  Vidal manages to insult just about everyone associated with the founding of America, and I get the impression Vidal thinks the whole idea of America was a mistake.  He belittles James Madison, or &quot;little Jemmy,&quot; as he calls him, for being short.  He describes John Adams as a short, fat man of great vanity and self-pity who &quot;waddled into history.&quot;  He lampoons the Boston Tea Party and the &quot;Disney-like Mount Rushmore,&quot; states as fact that the women of the nascent Republic-to-be found King George's hired Hessian mercenaries much more physically attractive than their &quot;scrawny, sallow&quot; proto-American counterparts.  He criticizes Jefferson's &quot;immoral&quot; life but has nothing but praise for Benjamin Franklin (mainly because Franklin provides him with a quote he loves to use when attacking the modern politicians he hates so much).  Vidal particularly dislikes Jefferson, whom he continually describes as a hypocrite of the highest order.  (He does, however, make use of Jefferson to imply that he would have called for secession from the nation over the establishment of the Patriot Act.)<br />The only memorable aspects of this book are the numerous vitriolic asides, many of which have little to do with the subject at hand.  Vidal cannot speak about acertain Supreme Court justice without including the parenthetical remark &quot;thought by many to be a visiting alien.&quot;  His attacks on the Bush administration are as snide as they are numerous.  The most galling of statements, however, are pointed at the American people, and I can't imagine how any American of any political party cannot but be offended here.  He refers to the nation as &quot;the United States of Amnesia,&quot; speaks of this country's &quot;uneducated, misinformed majority&quot; and sanctimoniously bemoans the fact that most Americans don't even know what the Electoral College is.  That's just the tip of the iceberg.  It's one thing to disagree with current policy, but to boldly state that Afghanistan had as little to do with the terrorist attack on 9/11 as Canada did is something else.  Those who agree with Vidal's politics will praise this book, but I don't think anyone will argue too strenuously that Inventing a Nation is a work of history.  Historians may not always be objective, but they must at least attempt to be so.  Twisting history in order to push your own agenda is, was, and always will be propaganda.  It is unfortunate because this book did have the potential of filling a few gaps in our understanding of the founding of the United States.ut a certain Supreme Court justice without including the parenthetical remark &quot;thought by many to be a visiting alien.&quot;  His attacks on the Bush administration are as snide as they are numerous.  The most galling of statements, however, are pointed at the American people, and I can't imagine how any American of any political party cannot but be offended here.  He refers to the nation as &quot;the United States of Amnesia,&quot; speaks of this country's &quot;uneducated, misinformed majority&quot; and sanctimoniously bemoans the fact that most Americans don't even know what the Electoral College is.  That's just the tip of the iceberg.  It's one thing to disagree with current policy, but to boldly state that Afghanistan had as little to do with the terrorist attack on 9/11 as Canada did is something else.  Those who agree with Vidal's politics will praise this book, but I don't think anyone will argue too strenuously that Inventing a Nation is a work of history.  Historians may not always be objective, but they must at least attempt to be so.  Twisting history in order to push your own agenda is, was, and always will be propaganda.  It is unfortunate because this book did have the potential of filling a few gaps in our understanding of the founding of the United States.	2004-06-26
622049:US	53016962	RI6FHJ9Z35WTE	0316034436	987616595	Brown Paper School book: Blood and Guts	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Very informative book that makes learning fun	Blood and Guts is a nifty little book designed to teach kids about the workings of the human body while having fun doing it.  Making learning fun is what the Brown Paper School project is all about; a group of California teachers, writers, and artists came together periodically to put together an impressive number of educational books for children, working on the principle \\"Accept no substitutes for fun.\\"  Linda Allison wrote and illustrated this particular book herself, and it does indeed live up to its subtitle A Working Guide to Your Own Insides.  The primary beneficiaries of the book are older children, but in a strong sense she seemed to be writing for both children and their parents; a number of the experiments she includes in these pages really need the supervision and help of an adult, and this makes for a wonderful way for parents to take an active role in their child's education and intellectual development.<br />The book is organized very well, as the author devotes a chapter to each of the following topics: skin, bones, teeth, muscles, heart, lungs, cells, digestion, kidneys, eyes, ears, balance, brain and nervous system, and reproduction.  She provides a basic but quite informative narrative for each subject at hand, includes a number of helpful illustrations, and lays out a number of experiments by which kids can see and learn about the individual subjects themselves.  Many of these experiments are very simple and can be performed quickly and easily, while others call for a few supplies that necessitate adult involvement - some of these can be dangerous, such as several different kinds of acid.  The book also suggests the acquisition and minor dissection of things like hearts and kidneys, but that probably goes a little farther than most parents will want to go.  Obviously, unless your last name is Frankenstein, you don't need to do everything in this book, but most of the experiments are quick, easy, and fun.  The chapter on reproduction does not go very deeply into the subject, but the basic differences between males and females are touched upon in word and simplistic illustration.  Since the book is aimed at the 9-12 age group, parents will want to take this into consideration.  Overall, though, the book succeeds quite well in making learning a fun activity for the child as well as the entire family.ery deeply into the subject, but the basic differences between males and females are touched upon in word and simplistic illustration.  Since the book is aimed at the 9-12 age group, parents will want to take this into consideration.  Overall, though, the book succeeds quite well in making learning a fun activity for the child as well as the entire family.	2004-06-20
622939:US	53016962	R3BGSIE0WMPZ3L	0763617229	951349864	The Tale of Despereaux: Being the Story of a Mouse, a Princess, Some Soup, and a Spool of Thread	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A perfectly enchanting, inspirational story	This is a wonderful, moving, perfectly enchanting novel for children of all ages, and it more than lives up to the spirit of the John Newberry Medal it received as the year's \\"most distinguished contribution to American literature for children.\\"  I had read a number of good things about The Tale of Despereaux, and the book actually exceeded my high expectations.  Not only does Kate DiCamillo give us a moving, gripping story with wonderful characters; she teaches us a number of important lessons about life in the process.  A similar set of circumstances leads several individuals down completely different yet converging roads in life, and this serves to illustrate the important fact that all of our actions and decisions have consequences for ourselves as well those around us.  At the same time, DiCamillo reinforces the importance of love, forgiveness, imagination, determination, etc., in each of our lives.<br />Despereaux could be called the mouse that lived; the only survivor of his mother's last litter, he was born (in a castle) with large ears and with his eyes open; thus, from the very start, he was made fun of and constantly told there was something wrong with him.  Truly, he was no ordinary mouse; light fascinated him, music stirred his soul, and a fairy tale he read (rather than gnaw on the pages) inspired his dreams.  Drawn by the sound of music one day, he disregards the established rules of mice by not only approaching the king and his little girl but actually speaking to them.  Despereaux falls madly in love with the princess, but his actions lead the mice council to send him to the dungeon - to the rats.  These dungeon rats are mean and nasty, and they eat any mouse that is sent down to their domain.  One, however, is not content to be a rat; Roscuro yearns to escape the darkness and dwell in the light - ridiculed by his rat buddies for such silly dreams, he nevertheless makes his way up and into the castle.  Unfortunately, his appearance sets in motion a tragedy that hangs heavily over the rest of the story - embittered by the experience, Roscuro returns to the dungeon and begins making plans for revenge.  Then you have Miggery Sow, the most tragic character of all.  At six years old, her mother died, and her father soon sold her for a hen, a red tablecloth, and some cigarettes.  Her \\"uncle\\" clouts her ears constantly for her mistakes, leaving her with cauliflower ears that she can barely hear out of.  No one has ever cared about her or her desires.  All three of these fascinating characters are destined to come together in the final section of this remarkable little novel.<br />It's an inspiring story indeed, and Despereaux is a hero in every sense of the word.  Not only must he survive his banishment to the rat-infested dungeon, he must -under almost impossible circumstances - try to rescue the princess he loves so dearly.  Love, honor, determination, and heroism (and soup) give him strength, but even still he is only a little two-ounce mouse.  There are a number of lessons in Despereaux's tale, not the least of which is the idea that even the smallest of individuals can be heroic and change people's lives.  Roscuro represents the pain and misery that inevitably comes from reacting to disappointment in a negative fashion, while poor Miggery Sow is a most telling victim of physical and emotional abuse.  Yet forgiveness is always possible, and that is a striking element of this plot.  The whole book is simply enchanting and inspirational.  DiCamillo often steps outside of the narrative to address the reader directly, offering words of encouragement or warning of unpleasant things ahead, and I thought this added a great deal of charm to an already charming book.  This is a story you will delight in reading again and again.tragedy that hangs heavily over the rest of the story - embittered by the experience, Roscuro returns to the dungeon and begins making plans for revenge.  Then you have Miggery Sow, the most tragic character of all.  At six years old, her mother died, and her father soon sold her for a hen, a red tablecloth, and some cigarettes.  Her \\"uncle\\" clouts her ears constantly for her mistakes, leaving her with cauliflower ears that she can barely hear out of.  No one has ever cared about her or her desires.  All three of these fascinating characters are destined to come together in the final section of this remarkable little novel.   <br />It's an inspiring story indeed, and Despereaux is a hero in every sense of the word.  Not only must he survive his banishment to the rat-infested dungeon, he must -under almost impossible circumstances - try to rescue the princess he loves so dearly.  Love, honor, determination, and heroism (and soup) give him strength, but even still he is only a little two-ounce mouse.  There are a number of lessons in Despereaux's tale, not the least of which is the idea that even the smallest of individuals can be heroic and change people's lives.  Roscuro represents the pain and misery that inevitably comes from reacting to disappointment in a negative fashion, while poor Miggery Sow is a most telling victim of physical and emotional abuse.  Yet forgiveness is always possible, and that is a striking element of this plot.  The whole book is simply enchanting and inspirational.  DiCamillo often steps outside of the narrative to address the reader directly, offering words of encouragement or warning of unpleasant things ahead, and I thought this added a great deal of charm to an already charming book.  This is a story you will delight in reading again and again.	2004-06-20
624049:US	53016962	R3S9CJ11FQ9KG3	0300068956	224853606	The Quest for Becket's Bones: The Mystery of the Relics of St. Thomas Becket of Canterbury	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A formidable treatment of an utterly fascinating mystery	Until now, all I knew about Thomas Becket was that he, the Archbishop of Canterbury, was killed by several of Henry II's knights, and the only real mystery was whether or not Henry actually meant the words literally when he expressed a desire to have Becket taken care of.  This is an utterly fascinating book, replete with images of the Canterbury Cathedral and vintage art pieces depicting the murder of Becket.  The text itself is well-written, impeccably organized, and never dull for one moment.  As it turns out, Becket's murder was just the beginning of the story, one that imparts much insight into the history of England itself.<br />History tells us that Becket, a good friend of Henry II before becoming Archbishop of Canterbury, was talked into returning from exile in France only to be brutally murdered soon thereafter, in December 1170, in Canterbury Cathedral itself by four knights of the king.  He sustained serious head wounds, and one of his murderers even pried out some portion of his brain and scattered it upon the floor.  The next day, his body was buried in a marble or stone coffin in the Chapel of the Holy Trinity at the eastern end of the crypt; while the body was moved temporarily at least once to guard against theft, Becket's relics basically remained in this spot for the next fifty years.  In 1220, the relics were moved to a shrine in the Trinity Chapel, and pilgrims came in droves to see the holy relics and to seek miraculous cures (and there apparently were some).  Then came Henry VIII and the Reformation.  In 1538, he ordered all religious shrines and relics destroyed, including (and especially) Thomas Becket's relics, at the hands of the Royal Commissioners for the Destruction of Shrines.  Conventional wisdom said the sacred bones were burned and scattered in the wind, and the outcry of Roman Catholics throughout Europe at this perfidious action echoes still today.  And so Thomas Becket's tragic story ended.<br />Then, in 1881, workers discovered a skeleton in the eastern crypt of the Cathedral; buried only a few inches below the ground, it lay in close proximity to the site of Becket's original resting place.  Suddenly, the true fate of Becket's relics was in serious question; this was still an important issue in England as well as Europe, as the Roman Catholic - Anglican conflict still simmered if not verily seethed at the time (and Becket is historically the most venerable of the Roman Catholic saints of England, which is exactly why Henry VIII tried to erase him from history).  The skeleton was arranged in a special way, and it was determined that the newly discovered body was that of a man somewhere around Becket's age who died of serious head wounds.  Even as the remains were returned to the crypt, experts soon lined up on both sides of &quot;the Becket hypothesis.&quot;  In 1949, the Dean and Chapter of Canterbury had the bones exhumed once again and more advanced scientific tests were performed on them - the results of these tests quieted debate, but there continued to be individuals who insisted that the bones either were Becket's or were somehow related to Becket's relics.<br />Butler does a wonderful job presenting the history and controversy in a well-balanced manner, taking us carefully from 1170 up to the present.  Since the vast majority of the story revolved around the bones discovered in 1881, it did come as something of a surprise two-thirds of the way into the book to learn that a 1951 report essentially proved the bones in the crypt were not Becket's, but this revelation did little to slow down the narrative; in fact, the surprising results of the 1951 study (of the bones from the crypt) only deepened the mystery.  In the end, Butler basically ends up where he started, but that's okay.  He has, in the meantime, made a convincing argument to the effect that there is no direct, contemporary evidence that the Canterbury Commissioners burned the bones removed from the shrine of St. Thomas in1538.  He closes by comparing and contrasting the five basic hypotheses that can be drawn from the evidence - while he names several other suggested burial sites for Becket's bones, he does not champion a gut theory of his own, and that makes for a most refreshing conclusion to the book.  The mystery as to what really happened to Becket's bones (as well as the question of whose skeleton was discovered in the crypt in 1881) makes for a fascinating story sure to keep the inquisitive reader's mind engaged from start to finish.1538.  He closes by comparing and contrasting the five basic hypotheses that can be drawn from the evidence - while he names several other suggested burial sites for Becket's bones, he does not champion a gut theory of his own, and that makes for a most refreshing conclusion to the book.  The mystery as to what really happened to Becket's bones (as well as the question of whose skeleton was discovered in the crypt in 1881) makes for a fascinating story sure to keep the inquisitive reader's mind engaged from start to finish.	2004-06-18
626036:US	53016962	RQPQHH2JSU86T	0761317910	385523172	The Man Who Walked Between the Towers (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	A tribute to the WTC towers and one dream they inspired	On an otherwise normal day in August 1974, a young Frenchman pulled off what may be the most impressive (not to mention foolhardy) wire-walking exhibition in history.  New York City's early commuters looked up to the almost-completed World Trade Center towers to see a man, experienced aerialist Phillippe Petit, walking back and forth across them on a wire.  This amazing (albeit highly illegal) achievement has now been immortalized in impressive ink and oil paintings in Mordicai Gerstein in The Man Who Walked Between the Towers.  Among the artwork you will find the ingenious use of two foldout illustrations, each one establishing an amazing change in perspective of Petit's wire-walking feat and making the drama of the event all that more palpable.  Published in 2003 and the recipient of The Caldecott Medal, this book is sure to captivate many young minds with its story and artistry (with a sense of vertigo thrown in absolutely free of charge), and it does stand as something of a touching reminder of the two towers that fell on September 11, 2001 and the spell they cast in their own silent yet mighty fortitude.<br />Alongside the artwork is the story, economically told, of Petit's dream and the manner in which he made it come true.  It describes how he and some friends dressed up as construction workers, hid out on both towers until nightfall, and got the wire-walking cable (which was a mere seven-eighths of an inch wide) in place, after which Petit walked, ran, danced, and even lay down on the outstretched wire over the course of nearly an hour.  He was then, of course, arrested but, to my surprise, ordered only to perform his feats for the children of New York City.  This is a fabulous story that will literally take your breath away, especially if you are as afraid of heights as I am, but I can't get over just how dangerous and illegal this was (to his friends as well as himself) and can only wonder how Petit got off so easily.	2004-06-17
627153:US	53016962	R2V4Z9MK2NV7YU	0836218051	591496462	The Essential Calvin and Hobbes: a Calvin and Hobbes Treasury	Books	5	43	46	N	N	A fantastic collection of early Calvin and Hobbes comics	The Essential Calvin and Hobbes, first published in 1988, is chock full of early Calvin and Hobbes comic strips.  No cartoonist, not even Charles Schultz, has captured the magical essence of childhood the way Bill Watterson did in this strip, and it should come as no surprise (although it did to Watterson) that Calvin and Hobbes quickly developed an incredibly loyal following.  This strip went way beyond mere popularity.  While I was in college, the campus newspaper decided to stop running Calvin and Hobbes (I think this was during one of Watterson's sabbaticals) - this resulted in nothing less than a furor on campus, as countless students immediately demanded the return of C&amp;H.  In a matter of days, Calvin and Hobbes were right back where they belonged.<br />How does a comic strip featuring a mischievous six-year-old boy and his stuffed tiger attract a fiercely loyal following of adults?  Most adults would love to be children again, to know the freedom and sense of wonder that somehow withers inside the human soul after the onset of puberty.  Calvin and Hobbes vividly recreates the feelings and emotions of the very essence of childhood.  It brings back memories of things we forgot far too long ago, and it thus reawakens the deepest parts of our ever-hardening souls.  Reading this comic strip is the next best thing to being a child yourself.  Calvin does everything you used to do: he takes time to stomp in mud puddles, he lets his imagination run wild to make thrilling adventures out of even the most mundane tasks, he ponders the same deep questions you are now, as an adult, afraid to ask, he goes for the gusto no matter what sort of risk is involved, he is in every way a perfect specimen of childhood.  Who, as a child, didn't pretend to be a dinosaur, walk around with a hideous expression in hopes of your facing freezing that way, tease the girls (or boys) you claimed to hate, journey to distant worlds unseen by human eyes, etc.?<br />Of course, Hobbes is just as important to the comic strip as Calvin.  Hobbes is a tiger, Calvin's best and constant friend, a fellow partaker in the joys of childish innocence.  To Calvin, Hobbes really is all that, and that is how we see him as well - until, that is, someone else comes into the frame, when he suddenly becomes nothing more than a stuffed animal.  Watterson is a fantastic comic artist, and there is just something captivating about the way he draws Hobbes in his stuffed animal form.  Everything about Watterson's art is fantastic, though, particularly the way it captures the emotions of its two principal characters.<br />Sadly, we have only ten years of comic memories in the form of Calvin and Hobbes, as the inscrutable Bill Watterson retired (around the age of 37) in 1995 and quite obviously has no plans of returning to the public arena.  Watterson is actually frighteningly private and seems to be living a life of unmatched solitude.  I find this extraordinarily sad: here is a man who captured the essence of childhood so vividly in the form of Calvin and Hobbes, a world bursting with life and possibilities, yet now he seems to have withdrawn from life itself.  We must be thankful we do have as much Calvin and Hobbes material as we do, and The Essential Calvin and Hobbes, with 255 pages of black and white daily strips and color Sunday strips, features much more than just a chunk of it in and of itself.t as important to the comic strip as Calvin.  Hobbes is a tiger, Calvin's best and constant friend, a fellow partaker in the joys of childish innocence.  To Calvin, Hobbes really is all that, and that is how we see him as well - until, that is, someone else comes into the frame, when he suddenly becomes nothing more than a stuffed animal.  Watterson is a fantastic comic artist, and there is just something captivating about the way he draws Hobbes in his stuffed animal form.  Everything about Watterson's art is fantastic, though, particularly the way it captures the emotions of its two principal characters.  <br />Sadly, we have only ten years of comic memories in the form of Calvin and Hobbes, as the inscrutable Bill Watterson retired (around the age of 37) in 1995 and quite obviously has no plans of returning to the public arena.  Watterson is actually frighteningly private and seems to be living a life of unmatched solitude.  I find this extraordinarily sad: here is a man who captured the essence of childhood so vividly in the form of Calvin and Hobbes, a world bursting with life and possibilities, yet now he seems to have withdrawn from life itself.  We must be thankful we do have as much Calvin and Hobbes material as we do, and The Essential Calvin and Hobbes, with 255 pages of black and white daily strips and color Sunday strips, features much more than just a chunk of it in and of itself.	2004-06-16
631901:US	53016962	R1SZ3H1FGIC8CE	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The story of the subs that helped us win the Cold War	It is hard to overstate the singularity and importance of this book.  Blind Man's Bluff, as the subtitle says, truly is The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage.  Before the research of writers Sherry Sontag and Christopher Drew (with Annette Lawrence Drew) culminated in the publishing of this book, the stories of hundreds of submariners, true heroes one and all, had been shrouded in the secrecy borne of the Cold War.  Many men aged and died without ever telling their wives and children what they did during their tours of duty; many family members never knew exactly how and why their loved ones never came home; many survivors have only now learned, thanks to this book, the exact nature of the missions they took part in, having never been privy to that information during their service.  According to the authors, many of these men and their families have thanked them in quite emotional terms for finally telling their stories.  The submariners of the United States Navy helped win the Cold War, and they deserve the heroic recognition they dutifully earned in service to their country.<br />This book basically takes the reader through the secret history of submarine intelligence missions over the course of the Cold War years and beyond.  Many of these tales prove once again that truth is oftentimes stranger than fiction.  Triumph and tragedy abound.  The book also serves as a primer of sorts for the history of the Cold War; the interplay between different American administrations, naval chiefs and admirals, larger-than-life sub captains, and brilliant civilian naval administrators immerses you in the full scope of military planning, action, reaction, and sometimes overreaction.  The biggest mistakes that were made all seem to fall in the lap of admirals and high-ranking naval officers and administrators, and these mistakes put many lives in danger and caused a number of unnecessary deaths.  The dangerous obstinacy of government bureaucracy is a problem we continueto deal with today.<br />Submarines fulfilled innumerable intelligence-gathering missions during the decades after World War II.  Subs infiltrated Russian waters to glean data about Soviet hardware, missile technology, and military behavior patterns; they secretly tailed all manner of Soviet subs across the oceans in order to identify each type of craft by the slightest of sounds and to learn the practices and tendencies of Soviet sub commanders (helping to ensure that the Soviets would be hard pressed to ever launch a massive nuclear first- or second-strike via the sea); they searched for valuable military hardware (both American and Soviet) along the ocean floor; and they brought home some of the most critical intelligence findings imaginable.  <br />Among the more remarkable stories detailed here are the Navy's successful attempts to locate a lost Soviet nuclear sub (which the CIA later attempted - embarrassingly unsuccessfully - to salvage from the bottom of the ocean), the mysterious loss of the US sub Scorpion (along with new information that would seem to finally explain the cause of the tragedy), and the collision of an American sub with one of its Soviet counterparts (just one of a surprising number of such collisions).  Perhaps the most fascinating account to be found in Blind Man's Bluff is America's secret tapping of Soviet military cables underneath the sea off Okhotsk and in the Barents Strait.  Submarines made a number of undetected trips to the discovered cables, hiding in relatively shallow waters literally just beneath the Soviet navy's very nose for days at a time, to collect and replace recorded tapes that gave Naval Intelligence an unprecedented look at Soviet plans and capabilities as well as crucial insight into the Soviet military psyche itself.  <br />You will meet some incredible heroes and brilliant intellectuals in this book: men such as John Craven, Commander Whitey Mack, Admiral Bobby Inman, and Tommy Cox, a would-be country singer whoimmortalized the deeds of his fellow submariners (and memorialized those who didn't make it back home) in song.  Then there are John A. Walker, Jr. and Ronald W. Pelton, two of the worst traitors in American history.  Walker spent eighteen years building a spy ring that turned over an immense number of secrets to the Soviets for less than one million dollars, while Pelton informed the Soviets of the Okhotsk cable tap for a mere $35,000.  These men put the lives of hundreds of brave submariners at risk, greatly compromising their nation's security in the process, and will stand forever among the most infamous of American traitors.<br />If you want to know what peril under the sea can really mean, read the amazing accounts chronicled in Blind Man's Bluff.  America's submariners played a crucial role in our nation's defense for decades, but only now are their stories being told.  It is a secret history more thrilling than that borne of the imaginations of the best military science fiction writers.	2004-06-12
631988:US	53016962	R203SDJP6CRRSN	0451459288	3902640	The Mechwarrior: Dark Age #3: Ruins of Power	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not without its faults, but a decent read for a Tech newbie	Some devoted BattleTech fans have been quite critical of Robert E. Vardeman's The Ruins of Power, the third book in the MechWarrior: Dark Age series.  I am a newcomer to the BattleTech world, so I made a point of reading the two earlier entries in this series so as to put myself in a better position to judge the merits of this book.  While The Ruins of Power isn't on par with its predecessors, I found this to be an entertaining, quite satisfying novel.  Vardeman does tend to avoid certain questions about the background of events, fails to expound upon a few seemingly unlikely details, and leaves room for the questioning of several characters' motives and agendas, but the basic story holds together pretty well, certain explanations are rightly held back until the closing pages, and important aspects of society and leadership are addressed.  BattleTech veterans may find fault with a number of things in these pages, but those new to the series stand a good chance of enjoying a pretty good story.<br />There is not a lot of military action to be found in The Ruins of Power.  This is due in no small part to Mirach's governor's adamant pacifism and zealous commitment to diplomacy; such strong feelings on his part are ironic and somewhat hard to accept at face value for the reason that Baron Sergio Ortega was a celebrated MechWarrior in his youth.  His two sons, Dale and Austin, plead with the governor to use the threat of force to quiet the growing unrest and riots springing up across the land.  The destruction of the Republic's interstellar communication capabilities has not only isolated Mirach, it has led to growing economic problems affecting the entire population.  Business leaders have gone so far as to begin converting IndustrialMechs into modified fighting machines in order to defend themselves from angry mobs should the social fabric of Mirach split completely asunder.  The government's biggest problem, however, turns out to be the Ministry of Information and the virtual monopoly its minister, Lady Enora, has on the news now that there is virtually no access to interstellar communications.  With the specter of civil war hanging over Mirach, only time will tell which important organizations and factions will support the Republic and which ones will betray the common good for their own selfish interests.  Political intrigue, treachery, and galling lust for power all make their mark on this story.<br />The Ruins of Power does have its weaknesses, and some readers will find them more frustrating than others.  Serious and committed BattleTech readers point to technical problems surrounding the equipping and utilization of BattleTech units in the novel.  As a newcomer to the series, I am not familiar enough with the technical details of the machinery of war to question any such information, but this may be an issue for some readers.  A much bigger problem is characterization - or, to be more blunt, the lack of it in some cases.  Baron Ortega's unflagging commitment to diplomacy proves quite frustrating early on, and Vardeman really offers no sort of explanation as to why this former MechWarrior now refuses to resort to any show of force.  Young Austin Ortega, for his part, fails to live up to the hype of a BattleTech novel hero, although he does develop into an interesting and sympathetic character.  The main problem with the novel, though, is Vardeman's portrayal of &quot;the bad guys.&quot;  The most dangerous hornet in the nest of opposition all but declares her treachery time and again, making misstatements that call her loyalties into question from the very start.  Her supposed motivation is hardly acceptable in and of itself, and this fact weakens her character greatly.  Questionable characterization is only exacerbated by certain aspects of the plot; Vardeman sometimes jumps from point A to point B without explaining how he got from one to the other.<br />Suffice it to say that The Ruins of Power is not a perfect novel - far from it.  It is, however, a perfectly interesting book that speaks to some of the basic values and concerns of any modern society.  Obviously, not all BattleTech fans would recommend the book, but in my opinion The Ruins of Power is more than worth a look by prospective readers.far from it.  It is, however, a perfectly interesting book that speaks to some of the basic values and concerns of any modern society.  Obviously, not all BattleTech fans would recommend the book, but in my opinion The Ruins of Power is more than worth a look by prospective readers.	2004-06-12
632509:US	53016962	R3MY1NGYZJ5CRL	0441011101	826605652	Outremer #5: Hand Of The King's Evil	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	The journey of these fascinating characters nears its end	Hand of the King's Evils sets the stage for the sixth and concluding novel in the Outremer series, leading our cast of fascinating characters to the very borders of the mysterious Forbidden Land of Surayon itself.  It is important to note that Chaz Brenchley's series was originally published as a trilogy, but the American publisher has broken the series down into six novels.  This helps to explain the lack of true climax you will find at the end of this particular book.  This is not to say nothing exciting happens here, however.  The shocking ending of the previous book precipitates a great deal of action in these pages.  The daughter of the King's Shadow has been abducted on her wedding night (making Julianne's score card read: Husbands 2, Wedding nights 0), right out from under the noses of her family and friends.  As powerful as her father, the King's Shadow, is, he cannot see where Julianne has been taken, although it quickly becomes clear just who her abductor was.  The lady's best friend Elisande also feels rather helpless, as even the djinni who now serves her proves unable or unwilling to rescue her friend.  She and Julianne's father set out across the desert in search of Julianne, soon joined by Marron, the Ghost Walker whose blood runs with the power of the King's Daughter, and his companion Jemel.  Somewhere behind them rides Hasan, Julianne's husband and the leader of an army of united Sharai warriors intent on recovering the lady and then taking their long-anticipated war to the kingdom of Outremer itself.<br />Unbeknownst to our party of heroes, other men are working their way to the borders of Surayon.  Imber, Julianne's first husband, follows the call of a djinni to come, he hopes, to the aid of the bride he lost so precipitously; Sieur Anton d'Escrivey, whom we last met mourning the loss of the young Marron (with whom he enjoyed a most controversial of relationships) amidst a veritable sea of dead men on the grounds of Roc de Rancon, heads in the same direction amidst an army of Knights' Ransomers seeking to locate and lay waste to the hidden land of Surayon and its heretical people; a new character also follows a path to the same destination, a Preacher who heals the sick with a holy relic and leads a peasant army of the zombie-like benefactors of his healing magic on a quest to seek divine retribution against Surayon.  As the book ends, the Folded Land is revealed to those around it for the first time in forty years, and the fate of this land and of the characters we have so faithfully followed throughout their journey to this time and place now hangs in the balance.  The only certainty seems to be that war will come, that the army of the Sharai will battle the forces of Outremer, and that blood will fill the streets of the now-revealed Surayon.<br />The entire Outremer series is powerfully character-driven, and war itself will not change this fact.  The primary characters have changed a great deal over the course of the first five novels, and my own reactions to them have shifted back and forth between admiration and disappointment, compassion and disgust, great sympathy and ambivalence.  Still, they remain fascinating, particularly Marron the reluctant Ghost Walker and the mysterious Elisande.  I no longer care very much for the histrionic and willful Julianne, but I am most anxious to see what becomes of everyone else.  The potential reuniting of Marron and d'Escrivey will be particularly interesting to see (if it does indeed happen), especially inasmuch as Marron's loyal friend Jemel has sworn to kill d'Escrivey.  I have some real problems with some of the actions of just about every character contained in these pages, yet Brenchley's writing will not let me abandon them nor let me rest until I know what becomes of them all.same direction amidst an army of Knights' Ransomers seeking to locate and lay waste to the hidden land of Surayon and its heretical people; a new character also follows a path to the same destination, a Preacher who heals the sick with a holy relic and leads a peasant army of the zombie-like benefactors of his healing magic on a quest to seek divine retribution against Surayon.  As the book ends, the Folded Land is revealed to those around it for the first time in forty years, and the fate of this land and of the characters we have so faithfully followed throughout their journey to this time and place now hangs in the balance.  The only certainty seems to be that war will come, that the army of the Sharai will battle the forces of Outremer, and that blood will fill the streets of the now-revealed Surayon.  <br />The entire Outremer series is powerfully character-driven, and war itself will not change this fact.  The primary characters have changed a great deal over the course of the first five novels, and my own reactions to them have shifted back and forth between admiration and disappointment, compassion and disgust, great sympathy and ambivalence.  Still, they remain fascinating, particularly Marron the reluctant Ghost Walker and the mysterious Elisande.  I no longer care very much for the histrionic and willful Julianne, but I am most anxious to see what becomes of everyone else.  The potential reuniting of Marron and d'Escrivey will be particularly interesting to see (if it does indeed happen), especially inasmuch as Marron's loyal friend Jemel has sworn to kill d'Escrivey.  I have some real problems with some of the actions of just about every character contained in these pages, yet Brenchley's writing will not let me abandon them nor let me rest until I know what becomes of them all.	2004-06-12
634102:US	53016962	R3H0362KNFC6BM	0439425220	283475425	Harry Potter Postcard Book (movie Tie-in #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great HP and the Chamber of Secrets keepsake	I'm not sure how much I can say about a postcard book, but here goes.  Lo and behold, the Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Postcard Book does indeed deliver a book of postcards to the Pottermaniacs among us.  I've seen references to 32 postcards being included here, but the total count in my copy is actually 24, and there is no evidence to indicate that the book once had any more than that (and, I might add, the other couple of copies I have seen of this book also have 24 in all).  Almost all of the postcards feature shots from the film, but two are unique - each one shows an image of Harry in his Quidditch robe in front of a somewhat generic background, thus taking on the look of sports cards.  Personally, I think all of the postcards look great, and the photography is quite vivid.  You get plenty of Harry and Ron pics, of course, two featuring Draco Malfoy at his wizard-dueling best (or should I say worst), a few postcards showcasing scenery more than characters, two nice pics of Gilderoy Lockhart, and one great pic of Professor Dumbledore (Richard Harris) flanked by Professor McGonagall and Argus Filch.  There is only postcard featuring Professor Snape, but he is looking particularly malevolent in the photo.  Lest you think I have forgotten Hermione Granger, I have not.  Since she is my favorite character, I have singled her out for special attention here at the end.  There are actually only two good pictures of her included here: one featuring Hermione and Jenny Weasley mooning over Professor Lockhart and one really nice one picturing her as she mixes up a batch of Polyjuice Potion.	2004-06-10
634105:US	53016962	RRCVI6YWLPMTU	0439418976	64720298	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: Art Coloring Book #3 (Harry Potter)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The third of four Chamber of Secrets art coloring books	You will find all of your favorite characters and scenes from the film Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets in this third of four Chamber of Secrets art coloring books, each illustration rendered in vivid black and white detail.  But wait - there's more.  You also get a quite impressive set of stencils for your amusement and creative inspiration: the sorting hat, a broom (although I can't tell if it is a Nimbus 2000), the Golden Snitch, Harry's trademark glasses, a cauldron, Hedwig (Harry's snowy owl, but I'm sure you knew that already), and a Hogwarts coat of arms.  Personally, I just like looking at the pictures, but if you are so inclined, there are many hours worth of fun awaiting those flourishing the ancient colored wands of Crayola.  I don't know why the makers of this book put the best drawing of Hermione on a page facing Draco Malfoy in one of his more uppity poses, though - I recommend you make Draco look as ridiculous as possible in that particular drawing.	2004-06-10
634274:US	53016962	R2YSNWNUWX45N0	0595276822	777279275	JUNK	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lots of action, but I feel like I missed the point of it all	While the story is certainly fast-paced and exciting, I could never really get into this novel.  Part of the problem was the fact that I never knew how seriously I should be taking anything I read.  The author, Michael Goodwin, has twelve years' experience on Wall Street and, like the book's protagonist, has been a junk bond salesman himself, so I kept wondering where satire left off and realism began as I studied the key characters of the novel.  Goodwin often goes over-the-top in his descriptions of people and events, yet I am sure that some unsavory Wall Street brokers served as the models for certain characters.  In my own mind, all of the story's characters are stereotypes, and clich&eacute; and satire rule the day, but I often found myself unsure whether Goodwin was shining the harsh light of truth on Wall Street, making serious statements about racism and life, or just trying to be funny.<br />The book revolves around Martin Stallworth, a black man trying to prove himself in a white world - specifically, the world of a major investment bank.  The company has just struck a major (yet visibly weak) deal with an upstart company called Lodestar, and the high yield sales team has two weeks to secure enough buyers to pull the deal off.  In this high-stakes corporate world, failure means exactly that.  We watch as Martin's stereotypical co-workers (including, among others, a Jewish woman, a good old Southern boy, and a braggadocios playboy in a three-buttoned pinstripe suit) work their magic, making unremitting use of unsavory and unethical business practices - kickbacks, bedroom favors, rigged \\"spontaneous bets,\\" and of course, good old-fashioned lying.  The smoothest operator in the company pulls himself out of a slump by taking his circus to representatives of the Chinese government, playing up the fact that the Defense Department is very interested in Lodestar's budding technology.  This is where the trouble starts, as a Chinese trader works to get his hands on the highly classified defense contract with Lodestar.  Martin soon finds himself the prime suspect in a murder, and this quickly turns out to be the least of his problems.<br />Racism has an influence on every page of the story.  Martin looks at everything in racial terms, and this is perfectly understandable to a degree.  He is the only black salesman at the firm, he wonders how his color will influence the new clients he needs to exploit in a hurry, etc.  It all seemed to go too far for me, though, even for satire.  When Martin allows himself to talk about his feelings, he often resorts to using 19th century slave idiom, and he imparts racist feelings on to just about everyone, whether it is there in that person or not.  When some unsavory characters crop up later in the story, they all seem to speak in a stereotypical slang style themselves, and this applies to men and women of several cultures.  Eventually, the whole thing seemed to go well beyond serving a certain purpose.  I don't have a problem with this particular writing style, I just have to say that it all seemed excessive to me and kept me from truly understanding whatever point the author probably had firmly in mind.<br />A few plot elements also seemed to lean too far toward excess, as well.  I saw a few things here that I considered rather ridiculous - but maybe that was the point, I don't know (Goodwin did actually title one chapter Deux Ex Machina).  The ending was also tied up in a much too fancy bow, further disconnecting me from the novel.  On the positive side, though, the book was oftentimes quite funny, the action was fast and furious, and the author did succeed, at least to a certain extent, in making a statement about both the ways of Wall Street and the manner in which race and culture oftentimes influence our views of one another both consciously and unconsciously.highly classified defense contract with Lodestar.  Martin soon finds himself the prime suspect in a murder, and this quickly turns out to be the least of his problems.<br />Racism has an influence on every page of the story.  Martin looks at everything in racial terms, and this is perfectly understandable to a degree.  He is the only black salesman at the firm, he wonders how his color will influence the new clients he needs to exploit in a hurry, etc.  It all seemed to go too far for me, though, even for satire.  When Martin allows himself to talk about his feelings, he often resorts to using 19th century slave idiom, and he imparts racist feelings on to just about everyone, whether it is there in that person or not.  When some unsavory characters crop up later in the story, they all seem to speak in a stereotypical slang style themselves, and this applies to men and women of several cultures.  Eventually, the whole thing seemed to go well beyond serving a certain purpose.  I don't have a problem with this particular writing style, I just have to say that it all seemed excessive to me and kept me from truly understanding whatever point the author probably had firmly in mind.  <br />A few plot elements also seemed to lean too far toward excess, as well.  I saw a few things here that I considered rather ridiculous - but maybe that was the point, I don't know (Goodwin did actually title one chapter Deux Ex Machina).  The ending was also tied up in a much too fancy bow, further disconnecting me from the novel.  On the positive side, though, the book was oftentimes quite funny, the action was fast and furious, and the author did succeed, at least to a certain extent, in making a statement about both the ways of Wall Street and the manner in which race and culture oftentimes influence our views of one another both consciously and unconsciously.	2004-06-10
634851:US	53016962	R3ODF4K8XK26CR	0439418984	422578680	Harry Potter & the Chamber of Secrets  Art Coloring Book #4	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The fourth, last, and best of the CoS art coloring books	This fourth and final of the Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Art Coloring Books is my favorite (and it's not just because it is the only one that features Hermione on the cover - although that certainly helps).  First, you have a good number of black and white illustrations featuring people and events from the film, but then you have something else - lavish color photos of most of the same scenes.  The functional point of this is to let budding artists compare their own colored drawings to the actual color photos they were taken from, but I - and this will come as no real surprise - just like to look at the pictures.  You can never have too many Harry Potter items, I always say, and all of these Chamber of Secrets art coloring books make for very affordable additions to my (and your) Harry Potter collection.  I might just note, for all my fellow Hermione admirers out there, that our favorite character is featured prominently in two of the color photographs.	2004-06-10
636464:US	53016962	R1VDHX2O6DY60V	0439425255	1845534	Harry Potter Art Coloring Book #1	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The first of four Chamber of Secrets art coloring books	Being a Pottermaniac, I have acquired several Harry Potter items that you wouldn't think a grown man would own.  This particular item is actually a little surprising to me.  When I was a kid, we had coloring books and that was it.  Kids today have options I am only now discovering.  This is an \\"art coloring book,\\" one of four related yet quite different books published in conjunction with the release of the film version of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.  What you get is thirty-two pages of black and white illustrations (the only color images are on the front and back cover) featuring scenes from the film - but there's more.  The book also comes with several sheets of tracing paper, hence the Trace a Scene portion of the title.  Rather than touching any of the illustrations in the book, you can lay your tracing paper on top of the image of your choice, trace the lines which appear quite distinctly through the page, and voila - instant art that you can color in all sorts of ways.  Why didn't they have this when I was a kid?  If you mess up your budding work of art (as I used to do all the time), all you have to do is get another piece of paper and trace the image again.  This is a particularly good idea in the case of Harry Potter because this is in many ways a collector's item (albeit a very modestly priced one which will never really be worth anything).	2004-06-09
636946:US	53016962	RLKCEY9TWGD1Y	0595299733	106417764	The Truth About Cinnamon: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the most poignantly precious novels I have ever read	I hardly know how to begin to describe my appreciation and love for this novel.  Cheri Laser, who seems to be quite an amazing woman herself based on her bio, has written one of the most remarkable, engaging, and downright precious books I have ever been fortunate enough to read.  Not only has she brought to life some of the most vivid and unforgettable characters I have met in a long time, she did this for not one but five generations of an American family.  The emphasis is on the women of that family, but there are some amazing men who also weave themselves into the story.  It sounds clich&eacute; to say that I laughed, I cried, etc., but in this case it is the absolute truth.<br />Even the title of the book is intriguing.  Cinnamon, I must tell you, is the name of the central character in the story, the grand lady who connects all of the generational players in this incredible drama.  As we first meet her, she is an elderly lady determined to tell the story of her life before she passes.  She drafts her grand-daughter Megan for this last special project, revealing deep and far-reaching family secrets to her; she then charges Megan with one final task, the unraveling of a family mystery and tragedy dating back almost five decades.  Cinnamon's story is complemented by a number of journal articles, letters, poems, and precious artifacts, and I still can't get over just how real and inherently human all the players in this extended drama are - you don't merely read about their lives, you are there to witness each of them first-hand.<br />We start with Amelia and Nathaniel, a young married couple who, in 1875, left their home in Ireland to sail to the United States in search of a prosperous life together.  The next significant family member we meet is Jonathon McClinty's wife Mimi, Amelia's daughter-in-law.  Together, the two women embark on an extraordinary interior decorating plan for their new home, hiring a number of the town's less prosperous craftsmen and artists to do the work.  These noble artisans and craftsmen become an extended family to Mimi and her children for decades to come, especially after Mimi and her young daughter Cinnamon are suddenly (and quite coldly) ushered out of Jonathon McClinty's life, starting Mimi on a heartbreaking journey to a rather tragic end.  Even when Mimi finds happiness and a new life in New York, fate soon reappears to pull the rug out from under her feet yet again.  This will become a pattern in the lives of the McClinty women.<br />While we meet Cinnamon's daughter Claudine in the latter section of the book and get to know Cinnamon's grand-daughter Megan quite well along the way, this truly is Cinnamon's story.  She led an amazing life filled with times of great happiness as well as times of terrible loss and regret.  While the tragedies she had to bear seem far too excessive for such a lovely, vibrant lady, she overcame each obstacle that was placed in her way, proved herself to be an independent, self-reliant woman in the years of the Great Depression, succeeded in life in all manner of ways, and kept the whole extended McClinty family together as she grew old.  It is hard to imagine how she could have lived for decades with the secret she reveals to Megan in these pages, but that, as they say, is really just the beginning.  The unlocking of this secret leads to evidence of a series of tragedies that, fortunately, Cinnamon was never forced to comprehend and deal with on her own.  In fact, Megan herself can hardly deal with the shocking truths she uncovers.<br />I could literally write about The Truth About Cinnamon for days.  It's the kind of novel you just want to talk about with anyone who will listen.  These vivid characters are not larger than life; instead, they are very real, incredibly human, and wonderfully grounded in the particular historical eras in which they lived, loved, suffered, and died.  I feel like an extended member of Cinnamon's family myself now, and I am not exaggerating when I say I grew to dearly love so many of the characters in this incredible story.  I desperately hope this novel will get the attention it deserves, for it is a true modern classic which cannot fail to touch the heart of anyone who reads it.rating when I say I grew to dearly love so many of the characters in this incredible story.  I desperately hope this novel will get the attention it deserves, for it is a true modern classic which cannot fail to touch the heart of anyone who reads it.	2004-06-08
641000:US	53016962	R3GYUGSIFNSJO8	0441010911	609140905	For More Than Glory	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A welcome rebirth of sorts for Dietz's Legion series	For More Than Glory is the fifth of William C. Dietz's Legion of the Damned novels, and it marks a change of direction and in some sense a rebirth of this thrilling military science fiction series.  Much has changed since we were first introduced to a futuristic Legion of soldiers evolved from the historical French Foreign Legion.  The decadent Terran empire has been overthrown, Earth has taken a leading role in the interplanetary Confederation of Sentient Beings, two massive wars against the militaristic Hudathan race have been won, a far-reaching conspiracy temporarily succeeded in overthrowing the Earth government, and the Confederacy has managed to survive a dire threat from a powerful new alien race called the Sheen.  While the cyborg legionnaires who served as the focus of the first novel continue to be important elements in the story, war and diplomacy have long ago taken center stage in Dietz's unfolding of Confederation future history.  A fascinating side note to this novel, which the author alludes to in a note at the back of the book, is that Dietz molded, to some degree, the chaotic set of events on the planet LaNor on the Chinese Boxer Rebellion of 1900.<br />While several of the main characters from previous books retain an important place in this story, For More Than Glory is largely built around a refreshingly new cast of characters.  Legion Second Lieutenant Antonio Santana emerges as the new hero on the block.  His checkered past of disobeying certain direct orders of a certain superior officer in the previous war cost him a star and secured his posting on the interplanetary backwater of LaNor.  This little planet soon takes on great significance, however, as a complicated planetary revolution threatens not only the lives of diplomats and legionnaires on the surface but also, albeit indirectly, the very solvency and future of the Confederacy itself.<br />An assortment of races has been incorporated into the Legion by this point, including the bug-like and always suspect Ramanthians and the once-hated Hudathans.  No one trusts anyone else, and for good reason.  On LaNor itself, the vain empress seeks to hold onto power in the face of two powerful threats, one by a revolutionary terrorist group and the other from a royal nephew who wants to guide LaNor into Confederation membership.  The diplomatic teams serving on the planet find themselves increasingly in the cross-fire of conspiracies and dangers that reach far beyond LaNor's small region of space.  Unbeknownst to their &quot;allies,&quot; the Ramanthians are preparing for a new hatching of some five billion new citizens - to allow for this upcoming population explosion, they need dominion over additional planets and a means of transporting their hatchlings to them, and they will stop at nothing to get what they want.<br />This story proceeds very well indeed in describing the rapidly deteriorating conditions on LaNor.  Santana is a wonderful character, a true and honest soldier trying to take care of his men and protect as many innocent lives as possible.  Highly ambitious diplomat Christine Vanderveen complements Santana very well, as she is quite willing to exceed her diplomatic powers in order to get to the bottom of things and knows what to do with a gun in the heat of battle.  Legion captain Seeba-Ka completely steals the show in my opinion, though.  Until now, the Hudathans have appeared as bloodthirsty, hateful creatures, but Seeba-Ka boasts a well-developed, remarkably subtle sense of humor and an unprecedented commitment to the Legion.<br />A number of thrilling rescue missions take place, but the best action occurs when the Confederate forces and diplomats are faced with an extended siege of their section of town.  The descriptions of military conflict are awe-inspiring, while the roller coaster of political intrigue takes the reader for a wild ride indeed.  Surprisingly, it is the small section of the book featuring characters well-known to readers of this series that flounders.  Legion General Booly is working on eliminating the small number of mutineers still roaming the Outer Rim, but the manner in which he goes about this really doesn't ring true to my ears.  This subplot stood as a significant speed bump in the road of this reader's satisfaction.<br />The conclusion of this novel is somewhat open-ended, setting the stage for at least one more novel in the series - I don't have a problem with this, but those readers seeking to have all their answers provided in the pages of one book alone should be aware of this fact.  I rarely bring up matters of an editing nature, but I also have to mention the fact that the hardcover edition is simply riddled with typos, missing letters, extra words, and other glaring mistakes.  I do not blame the author; but it is an unfortunate truth that the extent of the problem in this regard does take a little something away from the reader's enjoyment of the novel - this is a real shame because For More Than Glory is by and large a very engaging, exciting work of military science fiction.readers of this series that flounders.  Legion General Booly is working on eliminating the small number of mutineers still roaming the Outer Rim, but the manner in which he goes about this really doesn't ring true to my ears.  This subplot stood as a significant speed bump in the road of this reader's satisfaction.  <br />The conclusion of this novel is somewhat open-ended, setting the stage for at least one more novel in the series - I don't have a problem with this, but those readers seeking to have all their answers provided in the pages of one book alone should be aware of this fact.  I rarely bring up matters of an editing nature, but I also have to mention the fact that the hardcover edition is simply riddled with typos, missing letters, extra words, and other glaring mistakes.  I do not blame the author; but it is an unfortunate truth that the extent of the problem in this regard does take a little something away from the reader's enjoyment of the novel - this is a real shame because For More Than Glory is by and large a very engaging, exciting work of military science fiction.	2004-06-05
641346:US	53016962	R1KAHB3LEM4754	0441010989	57669536	Outremer #4: Feast Of The King's Shadow	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A terrific fantasy series grows even more complex	In Feast of the King's Shadow: The Fourth Book of Outremer, the main characters of Chaz Brenchley's remarkable fantasy series continue to evolve and grow in complex ways that surprise, touch, and sometimes trouble me.  While my original impressions had long been thrown by the wayside by the end of the second book, my reactions to and concerns for each character have now been essentially taken apart and reformed in new ways.  Of course, tragedy and hardship change people, and difficult indeed have been the individual journeys of the main characters: Julianne, the young and willful daughter of the King's Shadow; Marron, failed acolyte and now seemingly ill-suited Ghost Walker of legend, reluctant bearer of the mystical weapon called the Daughter; Elisande, the mysterious young lady from the hidden land of Surayon, friend and confidante of Julianne and obviously so much more; and Jemel, the Sharai boy who has renounced his tribal ties and pledged to serve his friend Marron.  As this book opens, their party has finally made it through the harsh desert and arrived at the boundaries of Rhabat.  It is here that Julianne's father, the King's Shadow, can supposedly be found and his life saved by his daughter.  Here also resides Hasan, the Sharai leader who alone can unite all of the fractious tribes of his land and lead them against Outremer, the land of Julianne and her father.  <br />There is danger in Rhabat, and it eventually emerges from the unholy, feared Dead Waters in the form of hordes of 'ifrits - spiritual creatures who take on physical form in pursuit of their evil aims.  The Ghost Walker is given an ignominious welcome by the Sharai peoples, for Marron is not the mighty savior they have looked for all these years.  Not only is he Patric rather than Sharai, he remains committed to his personal oath to never kill again.  There are battles fought over the course of these pages, worldly ones pitting steel and bows against the claws and beaks of dark monsters, as well as spiritual battles fought within the human hearts of men and women. <br />It is somewhat sad to see these characters begin to drift away from one another.  I find myself rather disappointed in Julianne at this point.  Originally, she was a rather enchanting young lady of great resolve, but in my eyes she has lost much of her humanity and become something of a hollow player in the events leading up to probable war.  While she does fight for the life of her father, her evolving relationship with Hasan and her own actions and words to devoted friends has struck a chord of disdain in this reader's heart.  Marron has continued to grow in the face of unprecedented challenges and dilemmas, seeking strength in solace, but I am very uncomfortable with his increasingly more open relationship with Jemel.  The sexuality in this book is rather amorphous, and some readers may well reject the entire series of books out of hand for this fact alone.  While I disapprove of much that I read here in this regard, I remain fascinated and highly sympathetic with Marron.  In my opinion, though, the most important character has now become Elisande.  Her feelings for Marron coupled with the distance that begins to develop between her and Julianne contribute to a new depth of sorrow and isolation in this character.  She, however, overcomes all of the weights pressing down upon her and triumphs in a very real sense by the novel's close.  <br />Chaz Brenchley is a brilliant writer; few authors could introduce so many troubling aspects into a story yet keep me captivated despite my own discomfort level.  I have to say I have almost no idea where Brenchley will take this series from here.  War looms on the horizon, key characters have already come close to hitting bottom both physically and emotionally, and the shocking ending of Feast of the King's Shadow introduces a completely new source of concern for one of the main characters.  I only know that, whatever happens, I will be there to witness it.	2004-06-05
648792:US	53016962	R1E8PLFFXPOC2D	0823415856	97924781	In Defense of Liberty: The Story of America's Bill of Rights (Orbis Pictus Honor for Outstanding Nonfiction for Children (Awards))	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An outstanding discussion of the Bill of Rights	In my opinion, every public library should have two copies of this book - one for the children/young adult section (its primary audience) and another for the adult nonfiction section.  In Defense of Liberty: The Story of America's Bill of Rights is as straightforward and educational as any book I've seen on the subject, and anyone who was born an American, sought and won American citizenship, or is just thinking about becoming an American would do well to read this book.  America's enemies could also learn a lot from this book, as it clearly shows the unprecedented liberties upon which this nation was founded and still abides.<br />After an introductory chapter or two setting the stage for the birth of the Constitution and the passionate demands for a Bill of Rights to protect the freedoms of every single American, Russell Freedman launches into a cogent discussion of each of the first ten amendments to the Constitution.  He refers back to English law as far back as the signing of the Magna Carta (1215) and the English Bill of Rights (1689) for the precedents and origins of the liberties espoused by the Founding Fathers.  \\"We the people\\" were not asking for concessions and liberties from the new central government; they were codifying the primacy of these individual freedoms and drawing a clear line in the sand over which the new government would not be allowed to cross.  The author points out that the freedoms espoused in the Bill of Rights were not enjoyed by every American for many years to come, but he shows how the document was flexible enough to serve an ever-changing nation over the course of time.  It is easy to take for granted the Bill of Rights today, but this truly was the cornerstone of a government the likes of which the world had never seen.<br />Freedman's discussion of each individual amendment is broad and impressive.  Not only does he explain the origins of each amendment, he offers examples of challenges to the laws, most often by ordinary citizens, and the historical judgments delivered by the Supreme Court in response.  In many cases, the Court reversed decisions it had made in earlier times, and Freedman uses this evolution of policy and judicial determination to show how the principles of the Bill of Rights have been shorn up and strengthened over time.  He also refers to hot button questions of the present time, showing that the Bill of Rights is just as relevant now as it ever was.  Through the examples of history and the illuminating examples of modern challenges and interpretations of the laws, Freedman makes this aged, weathered document bristle with the life and energy that is required for the nation to remain true to the principles upon which it was founded.<br />I daresay you will get a much better understanding of the Bill of Rights by reading this book than you ever will from reading a history textbook.  In Defense of Liberty is written by only one person, but surely it is written for the people.  I should also mention the fact that the author provides a bibliography of recommended readings for young readers in particular.  If nothing else, should you run across this book, pick it up and read the back cover because, if you are an American, there you will find your Bill of Rights.tizens, and the historical judgments delivered by the Supreme Court in response.  In many cases, the Court reversed decisions it had made in earlier times, and Freedman uses this evolution of policy and judicial determination to show how the principles of the Bill of Rights have been shorn up and strengthened over time.  He also refers to hot button questions of the present time, showing that the Bill of Rights is just as relevant now as it ever was.  Through the examples of history and the illuminating examples of modern challenges and interpretations of the laws, Freedman makes this aged, weathered document bristle with the life and energy that is required for the nation to remain true to the principles upon which it was founded.  <br />I daresay you will get a much better understanding of the Bill of Rights by reading this book than you ever will from reading a history textbook.  In Defense of Liberty is written by only one person, but surely it is written for the people.  I should also mention the fact that the author provides a bibliography of recommended readings for young readers in particular.  If nothing else, should you run across this book, pick it up and read the back cover because, if you are an American, there you will find your Bill of Rights.	2004-05-31
650546:US	53016962	R1V7LL3Z8M365K	0756401623	853363157	Inheritance: Keys Of Power #1	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderfully engaging start to an exciting fantasy series	The basic premise of Simon Brown's Inheritance, Book One of Keys of Power, isn't anything startlingly original, yet this proves to be a most absorbing novel with very well-defined and inherently likable characters.  Political intrigue, betrayal, cold-blooded murder, and just the right touch of magic makes the kingdom of Grinda Lear an exceedingly interesting and complex fantasy realm.  It was Queen Usharna who, as a young monarch, kept the kingdom together as it faced military attacks from outside and treachery from within - by the queen's own second husband, in fact.  Grenda Lear has been at peace for many years now, but its social fabric is already poised to unravel upon the death of the aging and increasingly frail queen.  The nobility, as represented by the Twenty Houses, is particularly intent to restore its prestige and power, still seething over the fact that Usharna took a commoner for her third and final husband.  This commoner whom the nobility hold in such disdain, however, was none other than General Elynd Chisal, the man primarily responsible for saving the kingdom from defeat in the Slaver War.  It is Lynan, the fourth child of Queen Usharna and son of the late General Chisal, who stands at the forefront of this exceedingly interesting novel.<br />In most cultures, the son of a nation's military hero would be held in high esteem; the same cannot be said of Grenda Lear.  Prince Lynan has lived a life of isolation, estranged from his mother the queen, looked down upon by his royal half-brothers and half-sister, and given none of the courtly duties befitting a prince.  As a son of the queen, however, Lynan is a prince of the realm and does receive, according to tradition, one of the four keys of power from Usharna upon her death.  Just as the new king, his half-brother Berayma, begins to take Lynan and his attendant duties seriously, disaster strikes the castle in the form of murder most foul.  Suddenly, Lynan finds himself fleeing for his life, as a most cancerous and ugly conspiracy inside the halls of utmost power complete step one of a nefarious power-grabbing plot and frame the &quot;commoner&quot; prince for regicide.  Lynan is accompanied in flight by Kumul, the suddenly ex-captain of the palace guard; Ager, a crookback soldier who served under Lynan's father in the Slaver War; and a young female student of magic named Jenrosa (who basically happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time); the young prince also has the Key of Union, although he does not yet know how to tap into whatever powers it might possess.  Kumul and Ager lead the group on a dangerous journey to a distant land where Lynan can find safety and, quite possibly, raise an army of his own.  As the group braves the dangers of the passage and deals with a series of attacks from government-appointed pursuers, Lynan matures a great deal and eventually vows to return to Grenda Lear and reclaim his royal heritage.<br />Inheritance truly engages the fantasy enthusiast's mind and love for the genre, as the author executes a number of critical sub-plots simultaneously and sets the stage for a truly epic saga.  Lynan is in some ways a classic underdog, and he comes across as very human thanks to his virtuous nature and his youthful capacity for saying and doing dumb things from time to time.  The action is suspenseful and fraught with both human and much more mysterious dangers (such as an encounter with Silona, the wood vampire who haunts the dark forest), and the magic that weaves its way into the storyline is subtle enough to make a maximum impact on an already thrilling story.  Humor works its way into the easy camaraderie of the gang of heroes, but at the same time the story has its dark side.  Some horrible acts are committed in these pages, and the blood that is shed leaves its mark on the reader.<br />I am definitely a new fan of Simon Brown.  Inheritance engaged my mind, swept me up in its atmosphere of intrigue, injustice, heroism, and adventure, and introduced me to a set of characters I am more than anxious to meet again in succeeding entries in the Keys of Power series (which is currently projected to be a trilogy).d adventure, and introduced me to a set of characters I am more than anxious to meet again in succeeding entries in the Keys of Power series (which is currently projected to be a trilogy).	2004-05-29
653340:US	53016962	R1J5DOIQKO7QYF	0823414485	24706400	Give Me Liberty!: The Story of the Declaration of Independence	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An outstanding American history book for young readers	This book may be aimed at young readers between 9 and 12 years old, yet readers of any age can benefit from Russell Freedman's basic yet very informative look at the writing of the Declaration of Independence and the events and ideas that helped shape it.  Opening with the exciting story of the Boston Tea Party, Freedman walks the reader through the series of events leading up to the start of the Revolutionary War and America's formal declaration of independence from the English government.  After a quick summary of American history up to the crucial events of the 1770s, Freedman describes the range of taxes, burdens, and laws that the British Crown and Parliament forced on its increasingly recalcitrant colonies.  The words of such men as Thomas Paine and Patrick Henry are once again called upon to reveal the unquenchable thirst for freedom which would help convince a divided population to take up arms in defense of a new, independent nation.<br />Freedman then presents a wonderful summary of the early skirmishes and battles of the Revolutionary War: the Boston Massacre, the Battles of Lexington and Concord, the Battle of Bunker Hill (Breed's Hill), the ill-fated (and very poorly planned) attack on Quebec, the English naval bombardment of coastal towns such as Charlestown, Massachusetts and Charleston, South Carolina, etc.  Against this backdrop of burgeoning military conflict stands the work of the First and Second Continental Congresses, and Freedman provides an excellent assessment of the differences of opinion that had to be ironed out before America dared claim her independence.  Freedman does an especially nice job of showing how the events of the first skirmishes of the war affected the thinking of Continental Congress delegates.  He closes with a discussion of the Declaration of Independence, imparting the true significance and provocative importance of this document too easily taken for granted today.<br />Freedman does not cover the events of the Revolutionary War after July 1776, but he does devote a chapter to an informed discussion of the legacy of the Declaration of Independence, discussing its relevance to later issues such as the emancipation of the slaves, women's suffrage, and the civil rights movements.  He shows just how significant and visionary the document remains to this very day and gives readers the chance to read it in its entirety.  He closes with a chronology of important events and a bibliography featuring recommendations to adults as well as children for future reading.  Packed with wonderful prints and illustrations, Give Me Liberty! The Story of the Declaration of Independence offers readers a concise yet highly informative look at the document that defines the United States of America.ionary War after July 1776, but he does devote a chapter to an informed discussion of the legacy of the Declaration of Independence, discussing its relevance to later issues such as the emancipation of the slaves, women's suffrage, and the civil rights movements.  He shows just how significant and visionary the document remains to this very day and gives readers the chance to read it in its entirety.  He closes with a chronology of important events and a bibliography featuring recommendations to adults as well as children for future reading.  Packed with wonderful prints and illustrations, Give Me Liberty! The Story of the Declaration of Independence offers readers a concise yet highly informative look at the document that defines the United States of America.	2004-05-26
655746:US	53016962	R2MOQ22GYQXQDY	0397320760	733870921	The Dinosaur Is the Biggest Animal That Ever Lived: And Other Wrong Ideas You Thought Were True	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simon makes learning science fun for the young reader	When I was a child, I was drawn to books of science fact.  I can only wish Seymour Simon had been publishing his excellent science-oriented books for young readers back when I was growing up.  Science is just so fascinating that I have trouble understanding any child's reluctance to embrace it, especially when there are wonderful little books such as The Dinosaur Is the Biggest Animal That Ever Lived and Other Wrong Ideas You Thought Were True (how's that for a lengthy title?).  Expose a child to this type of reading material, and you will do much to encourage the young scholar within him or her.<br />Books such as this provide youngsters with a great way to stump their parents; how exciting it must be for a precocious child to actually teach his/her parents a fact every now and again.  This is a good thing, for it only enriches the learning opportunity available to the youngster.  Parents should not be afraid to admit they don't have an encyclopedic knowledge of everything.  When a child asks a question a parent can't answer, that parent is provided with a golden opportunity to share the fun of learning directly with the child.<br />This book features some 29 short and illustrated chapters, each one based on a common science question and the wrong answer that has somehow established itself in the public consciousness.  Of course, by the time one becomes an adult, he/she has usually learned that the blue whale of today is actually much larger than the largest of dinosaurs, that the sky generally appears blue because of light refraction, that sharks can indeed attack in shallow water, that chocolate doesn't give you pimples, that lightning can indeed strike the same place twice, etc.  Still, an adult can also learn from the knowledge contained in this book - I certainly did.  I now know, for instance, that quicksand is actually twice as buoyant as water and that a person can literally float on his/her back and push or pull his way to safety.  I was also rather amazed to learn that there are over one million earthquakes (the vast majority of them quite insignificant) each year across the globe, which equates to two earthquakes per minute.<br />There is no real order to the topics here, but of course each one deals with a scientific fact and popular misconception.  The illustrations by Giulio Maestro do much to increase the appeal of the book, and Simon's text is a great fit for the curiosity and intellect of young minds.ed to learn that there are over one million earthquakes (the vast majority of them quite insignificant) each year across the globe, which equates to two earthquakes per minute.  <br />There is no real order to the topics here, but of course each one deals with a scientific fact and popular misconception.  The illustrations by Giulio Maestro do much to increase the appeal of the book, and Simon's text is a great fit for the curiosity and intellect of young minds.	2004-05-25
657772:US	53016962	R11PWHHYH6CSMC	0441892612	868336782	Winds Of Darkover	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An important but not quite essential Darkover novel	Among the native people of Darkover, even those outside the rule of the Comyn, certain taboos are strictly forbidden.  In this society of telepaths, none must use their mental powers in order to shadow, or take over the mind and body, of another individual.  Drastic times call for drastic measures, however, and the situation at High Windward, the outlying Castle of Storn, is indeed drastic.  The stronghold has been breached and the family of Storn virtually imprisoned by a gang of ruffians.  The oldest son and de facto head of the family, Loran, lies in a deathlike trance inside the high walls of the castle, protected by a magical force field; blind since birth and thus virtually powerless to stop the storming of the castle, he is not without magical recourse in his trancelike state.  Eldric, his younger brother, is imprisoned in the dungeon.  Allira, his timid sister, has been forcefully taken as a wife by the leader of the gang of bandits, but the younger Melitta has been given, at least temporarily, limited freedom of movement inside the walls of the castle.  Alienated from the families of the Comyn on Darkover, Loran Storn has no one to call upon for aid.  Taboo or not, his only hope is to search out another mind and engineer some kind of rescue mission through that person.  The mind he finds is that of a Terran named Dan Barron.<br />Barron, after five years of unblemished service as a dispatcher at the Darkover Spaceport, finds himself in serious trouble after his dereliction of duty almost results in the crash of a landing spacecraft.  He cannot tell his superiors what actually happened - that he had suddenly found himself lost in a vision of a world he did not know.  Rather than being deported, he is assigned to teach lens crafting to a delegation of Darkovans, and so he ventures into the world outside the Terran zone for the first time.  These sudden, all-encompassing visions continue to hit him without a moment's notice, and he begins to feel as if two people reside within his brain, as he seems to know things about Darkovan language and culture that he cannot possibly know.  Eventually, this other person inside Barron takes full control of his mind and body, sending him on a desperate mission to a city he has no knowledge of; at the same time, Melitta follows the instructions of her entranced brother, escapes from the Castle of Storn, and makes her way to that same city.  In this desperate rendezvous of sister and &quot;brother&quot; lies the only hope for the rescue of the Storn family.  Dan Barron, as you might expect, takes on a less zombified role in the drama before all is said and done.  Still, with no allies to call upon or available mercenaries to hire, Loran Storn's desperate gamble to save his family seems destined to fail until a most unlikely savior comes up with a plan, one involving the breaking of yet another Darkover taboo.<br />This relatively short novel stands alone quite well, but it also has its place in the context of the entire Darkover series.  We meet Star of Danger's Larry Montray, in a relatively minor role here, and Desideria, an important character in the story of The Second Age of Darkover, makes her first appearance (in terms of the Darkover chronology) in these pages as a heroic young lady.  Winds of change blowing in the kingdoms outside Comyn hegemony portend the sweeping changes evoked in the land as The First Age of contact with the Terrans draws to a close.  Perhaps most significantly, we are witnesses to the rebirth of one of the forbidden weapons from the earlier Ages of Chaos, as the forbidden powers of the fire goddess Sharra are called upon for the first time in centuries.eople reside within his brain, as he seems to know things about Darkovan language and culture that he cannot possibly know.  Eventually, this other person inside Barron takes full control of his mind and body, sending him on a desperate mission to a city he has no knowledge of; at the same time, Melitta follows the instructions of her entranced brother, escapes from the Castle of Storn, and makes her way to that same city.  In this desperate rendezvous of sister and &quot;brother&quot; lies the only hope for the rescue of the Storn family.  Dan Barron, as you might expect, takes on a less zombified role in the drama before all is said and done.  Still, with no allies to call upon or available mercenaries to hire, Loran Storn's desperate gamble to save his family seems destined to fail until a most unlikely savior comes up with a plan, one involving the breaking of yet another Darkover taboo.  <br />This relatively short novel stands alone quite well, but it also has its place in the context of the entire Darkover series.  We meet Star of Danger's Larry Montray, in a relatively minor role here, and Desideria, an important character in the story of The Second Age of Darkover, makes her first appearance (in terms of the Darkover chronology) in these pages as a heroic young lady.  Winds of change blowing in the kingdoms outside Comyn hegemony portend the sweeping changes evoked in the land as The First Age of contact with the Terrans draws to a close.  Perhaps most significantly, we are witnesses to the rebirth of one of the forbidden weapons from the earlier Ages of Chaos, as the forbidden powers of the fire goddess Sharra are called upon for the first time in centuries.	2004-05-23
658632:US	53016962	R2A9RFT6AH9KUV	0886776031	320207795	The Bloody Sun (Darkover)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A marvelous novel of self-discovery and cultural evolution	Not only is The Bloody Sun a fantastic read on its own merits, it is also a pivotal book in Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover series, marking the transition of the planet Darkover from its zealous self-isolation from the Terran presence toward the growing spirit of cooperation that marks the Second Age.  For generations, Darkover has consisted of seven domains loosely ruled by the Comyn, the aristocratic families of those domains.  By this time, however, the influence of the Terran presence in the land has led some Darkovans to express a desire to abandon the old ways and form a close and mutually beneficial relationship with the Terrans.  The true power of the Comyn has long been found inside the mysterious Towers of the land, but now only the mighty Tower in Arillin can boast of a full-fledged Keeper, and even this primary Tower's circle is incomplete at the time this novel opens.  Some of the people believe that the old ways are out-dated and needlessly burdensome, but few in authority have the desire, let alone the courage, to pursue progress of any sort.  Thirty years earlier, Cleindori, former Keeper at Arillin, had courageously sought to change the laws (as was her right as Keeper) and free herself and her successors from a life lived under the most severe, isolated of conditions; her ultimate reward had been death and denial as a declared traitor and renegade.<br />Raised in the Spacemen's Orphanage on Darkover until he was twelve, Jeff Kerwin spent his next several years on Earth with his Terran father's parents; an outcaste on a world not truly his own, he pined for the time he could return to Darkover and learn the truth of his heritage.  All he has is the name his Terran father gave him and a matrix jewel of unknown origin.  He also has bright red hair, and on his first night back on Darkover he gets into several altercations with Darkovans who mistake him for someone else - a Comyn.  When he begins to search for the history of his earliest years, he is surprised and increasingly frustrated to learn that no such records seem to exist anywhere of him or his Terran father.  Even the Spacemen's Orphanage has no record of him.  Kerwin knows he is being lied to and manipulated, but he has no idea why.  Seeking information on the nature of his matrix jewel among Darkovan matrix technicians, Kerwin finds himself pulled in a new direction while the Terran authorities seemingly push him out.  On the brink of deportation from the planet of his birth, a voice beckons him through the jewel he wears, and by following this voice Kerwin finds a new home on Darkover - a home within the very Tower of Arillin.<br />Thus we get an inside look at the work of the Comyn and their sheltered Keepers inside their mysterious Towers.  It is a brand new life for Kerwin, accepted into a telepathic circle of power and authority.  He finds new friendships, experiences beautiful yet tragically painful romantic relationships, and tries to work alongside a personal enemy determined to prove that he, as a hated Terranan, is a spy who does not belong in Arillin.  Ultimately, he carries the burden of knowing that the very future of Darkover depends on him, as the Tower of Arillin is put to a test that will determine whether Comyn &quot;magic&quot; or Terran technology will best serve the Darkovan people in the future.  Of course, things get much more complicated than this, and the ultimate revelation is not to come until Kerwin discovers the truth about his parentage and childhood on Darkover.  That revelation is rather involved, requiring several moments of &quot;wait a minute, let me get this straight&quot; reflection on my part (which is not to say it does not make sense); it is as meaningful and powerful as it is complex.<br />The Bloody Sun is a thoroughly engaging novel boasting impressive elements of both science fiction and fantasy.  In the context of its place within Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover novels, it is among the most important and significant works, showing as it does the inner workings of the last of the most powerful of mysterious Towers, revealing long-buried secrets linking this story and Darkovan history back to the crucial era of The Forbidden Tower, vindicating completely a renegade Keeper of the past, and basically explaining the impetus for one of the most significant cultural evolutions in Darkovan history.t and significant works, showing as it does the inner workings of the last of the most powerful of mysterious Towers, revealing long-buried secrets linking this story and Darkovan history back to the crucial era of The Forbidden Tower, vindicating completely a renegade Keeper of the past, and basically explaining the impetus for one of the most significant cultural evolutions in Darkovan history.	2004-05-22
660822:US	53016962	R1XI2D5297Z52M	0687052939	225428829	The Mutilation of Mark's Gospel	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Illuminating study of the textual integrity of Mark's Gospel	It is no real secret that Mark's Gospel is just a little bit strange; all you have to do is turn to the end of the book to see that things get a little weird after verse 16:8.  Depending on the version of the Bible you are referring to, you may well find &quot;The Shorter Ending of Mark&quot; and/or &quot;The Longer Ending of Mark&quot; along with a note explaining that verses 9-20 have been pretty authoritatively established as later additions to the end of Mark's Gospel.  These &quot;extra&quot; verses have always drawn my attention, but I've never taken a serious look at 16:8 to see just what kind of original ending it makes for the Gospel of Mark.  Plenty of others have examined this ending in great detail over the centuries, going back all the way to the days of the early Christian church.  Up until the 1970 or so, a majority of New Testament scholars believed that the real ending of the book had been lost, but since that time a new consensus has emerged to stand that majority opinion on its head.  N. Clayton Croy does not share today's consensus view on this subject, and he sets out, in The Mutilation of Mark's Gospel, to renew the debate on this topic and give voice to the significant yet minority viewpoint he upholds.<br />This is a fascinating, well-argued, well-researched book.  I had no idea just how vociferous a debate the issue of Mark's completeness has been.  Croy goes out of his way to categorize the arguments of the majority completist viewpoint, establish the manner in which this idea gained ground in the last few decades, and then present his own counter-argument to the conclusions at hand.  He makes a very strong case for his hypothesis that both the beginning and end of Mark's Gospel were lost long ago, within a couple of decades of the book's completion.  His first step is to examine verse 16:8 in great detail and to show just how problematic it really is.  This concluding verse of Mark's Gospel basically undoes everything the book had done upto that point.  The narrative clearly points to a resurrection appearance to justify Jesus as the Christ, yet the book ends with the women at the tomb, after being told by a divine messenger to tell Peter and the disciples that Jesus had risen, running away from the empty tomb in fear.  In other words, this Gospel of the Good News ends on the most unlikeliest of notes; the author characterizes it as &quot;fright, flight, mouth shut tight.&quot;  Promises made earlier in the book are not fulfilled, the complete reliability of Jesus' promise to rise again is not fulfilled in the eyes of the reader, and the disciples, who fled or - in the case of Peter - denied knowing their Lord, are not rehabilitated at all.  How do you explain such an ending that flies in the face of Christian tradition?  Many, many different ways, it turns out, depending on which scholar you ask and when you ask him/her.<br />I can't say enough about the excellent organization of this book.  Croy takes you step by step through the history of the debate.  His discussion of the shift to the new consensus in the waning decades of the twentieth century is especially cogent.  Basically, the recent shift in scholarly opinion is a product of the &quot;New Criticism.&quot;  Croy examines all the new tools and ideas brought to bear on the subject at hand: literary criticism techniques now being applied to Biblical writings, grammatical and stylistic approaches to the text, polemical interpretations of Mark, reader-oriented interpretations of the text, etc.  He then explains why he believes Mark's Gospel is incomplete, explaining each of his points clearly and effectively.  Not only does Croy believe the ending of Mark was lost, he also believes its beginning was lost as well.  Finally, he explains just how such a mutilation might have occurred.  It is his belief that Mark's Gospel existed in codex rather than scroll form (presenting compelling evidence that the use of codices does in fact go back to Mark'stime).  The most vulnerable parts of a codex were the beginning and ending pages because they were on the outside; the loss of the outermost leaf would account for the loss of both the beginning and ending of Mark's Gospel.  <br />Croy is not necessarily trying to convince others that his theory is correct; he is more interested in seeing the mutilation theory regain a prominent spot in the debate, hoping to overcome the notion that this issue is settled - clearly, it is not.  The mutilation theory has an eloquent defender in N. Clayton Croy.  He frames both sides of the debate in a clear and concise manner, addressing every nuance of the arguments for and against the structural integrity of Mark's Gospel before laying out his own theory.  Anyone curious about this subject, be you laymen or Biblical scholar, can gain deep insight into the matter by reading this meticulously researched yet very accessible monograph.	2004-05-20
663127:US	53016962	R29ILSQ5AIP0OJ	0886776074	190495470	Star of Danger (Darkover)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast-paced, highly enjoyable Darkovan adventure	With Star of Danger (1965), I take my first footsteps into Marion Zimmer Bradley's legendary world of Darkover.  While this particular story is far removed from the earliest chronicles of Darkover, taking place during the First Age (the era in which the Terran Empire rediscovered Darkover for the first time), it makes for an easy introduction to this strange and beautiful world.  Star of Danger reads much like a juvenile novel of the type Heinlein perfected in the 1940s and 1950s.  This does not mean the novel is not a magical read for adults - because it is.  At the same time, however, it is filled with the type of youthful adventure and soul-stirring excitement that members of the younger generation can take great delight in.  The protagonists are two teenaged boys standing on the cusp of adulthood, natives of two different cultures coming together for the unplanned-for adventure of a lifetime.<br />Young Terran Larry Montray is thrilled at the prospect of leaving Earth and moving to the exotic planet Darkover with his father, for he has long dreamed of experiencing space flight and embarking on adventures in alien lands.  He is so excited that he studies the peculiar Darkovan language and learns how to read and communicate with the insular inhabitants of his planet-to-be.  When he arrives on the planet, however, he is met with great disappointment; not allowed to explore the local area, he finds life in the Trade Cities no different from his life back on earth.  Gradually, he talks his father into giving him more freedom, and he is surprised and gratified to discover that many of the local inhabitants mistake him for one of their own thanks to his red hair and knowledge of their language.  The &quot;backwards&quot; Darkovans do not trust the Terrans, afraid of the type of change Earthmen will bring to their traditional, highly structured society, but Larry soon makes friends with a young Darkovan aristocrat named Kennard Alton.<br />Larry is given the unprecedented opportunity of spending several months with the Altons in the countryside, but this great adventure soon becomes a life-threatening one.  If Larry and Kennard are going to survive the series of ordeals thrown at them in these pages (which include ambushes, deadly forest fires, capture, physical ordeals, and the threat of deadly Banshees), their bond of friendship must hold steady, and they must both learn from and defer to one another's very different strengths.  Culture clashes are inevitable, but a spirit of understanding and friendship can not only lead them to safety, it may also serve as the beginning of a bridge between their two different, yet related, peoples.<br />Star of Danger is not a very long novel, and its action-packed plot is just the type of thing needed to get a youngster excited about the joys of reading; a few lessons on sharing and mutual understanding and respect also might pay dividends.  This is not technically a juvenile novel, but it very well could be.  Exciting yet meaningful, Star of Danger is a fast-paced science fiction adventure for all ages.ed opportunity of spending several months with the Altons in the countryside, but this great adventure soon becomes a life-threatening one.  If Larry and Kennard are going to survive the series of ordeals thrown at them in these pages (which include ambushes, deadly forest fires, capture, physical ordeals, and the threat of deadly Banshees), their bond of friendship must hold steady, and they must both learn from and defer to one another's very different strengths.  Culture clashes are inevitable, but a spirit of understanding and friendship can not only lead them to safety, it may also serve as the beginning of a bridge between their two different, yet related, peoples.  <br />Star of Danger is not a very long novel, and its action-packed plot is just the type of thing needed to get a youngster excited about the joys of reading; a few lessons on sharing and mutual understanding and respect also might pay dividends.  This is not technically a juvenile novel, but it very well could be.  Exciting yet meaningful, Star of Danger is a fast-paced science fiction adventure for all ages.	2004-05-18
666357:US	53016962	R56NX3XYNG67Y	0451456734	507781919	Queen of the Darkness	Books	4	14	16	N	N	The thrilling conclusion to The Black Jewels Trilogy	With Queen of the Darkness, Anne Bishop closes out one of the best dark fantasy trilogies ever written.  The depth and richness of the worlds she created in this series must be experienced to be believed, especially with &quot;good guys&quot; including the likes of Saetan, High Lord of Hell, and his sons Daemon Sadi and Lucivar.  Of course, Jaenelle Angelline is the center of attention as always; the young girl we first met in Daughter of the Blood, struggling to find friendship, acceptance, and guidance from those who - unlike her awful family - could recognize her for what she was, has grown up and now sits upon the Dark Throne of Ebon Askavi.  She is surrounded by a coven of friends from neighboring realms and their males, protected by the most powerful warlords of the Blood, yet despite her own power as Witch - the almost mythological manifestation of true Blood power, dreams made flesh - sorrow continues to number all of her days.  Daemon Sadi, her chosen Consort, has yet to return from the Twisted Kingdom of madness, many Kindred lives have been lost at the hands of the evildoers ruling the kingdom of Terreille, and a cataclysmic war looms on the horizon, a war Jaenelle knows will kill everyone she cares about.<br />I think the beginning of this novel threw me off stride a little bit, and I was never able to completely recover.  As Queen of the Darkness opens, several years have passed since Daemon emerged from the Twisted Kingdom, yet he is nowhere to be found.  When he is located, largely by luck or fate, and brought to the Hall alongside the likes of Wilhelmina, Jaenelle's sister, he remembers nothing of the cataclysmic events that closed out the first book in the trilogy.  When Jaenelle returns, a definite rift exists between her and Daemon, and Jaenelle has little to do with a sister she once loved.  The situation with Daemon becomes clear as the book nears its end (culminating in a very touching scene), yet I felt there was a strong disconnect between the characters.  Later, when the evil plots of Hekatah the dark priestess and her hateful ally witch Dorothea must finally be dealt with once and for all, I didn't completely buy into the way things happened.  Certainly, there were some surprises, and I could barely stand to see some of the things that took place actually happen, but things just didn't seem 100% right.  The pivotal subterfuge around which Jaenelle's secret plans are put into motion seemed especially contrived - it was as if everyone just decided one morning that they should look at a central character differently, and I never saw any justification for the types of doubts that arose.  <br />Fans of the series will be thrilled to know that justice is finally done, and those who have hurt Jaenelle and the members of her Dark Court over the years get exactly what is due them.  Sadly, however, some dear characters are also lost or maimed through acts of villainy and the vindictive lust for power.  The Kindred, non-human creatures of the Blood whom we encountered in Heir to the Shadows, are woven into this concluding novel in a beautifully intricate fashion, making for a more complex but at the same time enriching reading experience.  At the same time, secondary players in the drama, many of whom I had struggled to truly understand, also emerge in grand fashion as the trilogy approaches its climax.   <br />Even if I wasn't 100% satisfied with this third and final novel, I have nothing but the highest of praise for Anne Bishop's literary genius and for The Black Jewels Trilogy as a whole.  No fictional kingdom of dark fantasy has ever seemed so vivid and original, nor have characters as complex as the main actors in this story ever been seen before - not by my eyes, anyway.  The subject matter makes these books unsuited for young readers, but mature readers who appreciate originality and the word-weaving of literary magic will very likely find themselves deeply immersed in this world and come away echoing myfinal comment here: Anne Bishop is the Queen of Dark Fantasy.	2004-05-16
670129:US	53016962	R3MA10EGDK0IX0	0595307337	737690839	THE SCYLLA HEXAGRAM: KYM A-1	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A refreshingly different type of espionage novel	The Scylla Hexagram revolves around an interesting and more than timely premise: could financial espionage of the most extreme kind manage to bring down the world economy in one fell swoop?  I'm not sure the novel answers the question of the global market's vulnerability to economic terrorism definitively, but it certainly provides much food for thought.  Somewhat to my surprise, the story never fully embraces a macro-economic perspective; the seriously destabilizing effects on the world market are certainly referred to as the dastardly plan is put into motion, but the unusual and intricate details of the master plan kept my mind pretty close to the geographic area in which the story takes place: Hong Kong (and by implication China).  There is also a psychological fulcrum to the novel that tends to overshadow and take a little something away from the economic terrorism aspect of the story.<br />As a girl in Tibet, Kym Blaze barely escaped the murderous hands of a shadowy killer known as the Unicorn.  The photographic memory that serves her so well in her chosen field fails her whenever she looks back eighteen years to her encounter with the mysterious man who killed her best friend's father and very nearly killed her as well.  Kym is now a Special Ops agent for the Network, a shadowy organization of &quot;good guys.&quot;  Although she does not know who the Unicorn was and is, she is assigned the mission of identifying and stopping him from destroying the world economy - his goal is to bring capitalism to its knees, move quickly to seize control of China, and return the country to her old, Maoist foundations.  Kym as well as her colleagues question whether she is up to the task of confronting the Unicorn once more, but she stays the course for personal reasons, determined to conquer her increasingly troublesome personal demons.<br />The Network's strongest lead is a financial genius named Obermeyer working in Hong Kong.  Obermeyer is a slippery little character, seemingly playing both sides of the game and leaving the reader continually questioning where his true allegiance lies.  He is the Unicorn's chosen economic architect, and his character leads us through a number of exciting and economically amazing gymnastics.  The manner in which the Unicorn's plan, dubbed Project Scylla (named for a six-headed monster from Greek mythology), proceeds is complex and, at times, somewhat contrived, and could probably benefit from a more complete exposition by the author, but it is a strikingly unique and memorable operation.  The novel features some nice twists and turns and a surprise or two toward the end, but in my opinion part of the ultimate revelation does much to take the wind out of the sails of an otherwise compelling premise.<br />The Scylla Hexagram has a lot going for it, including an unusual storyline, memorable characters, and a good deal of action, but it also has a few problems.  This is, however, author Paul Riva's first novel, so perhaps I am being a bit hypercritical.  The main problem I had involved the style of transition from one event to the next in the story.  A number of times, I was surprised and momentarily confused by a sudden change in setting or characters; transitions of this sort would sometimes happen without any real context, and this left me floundering at times.  A blank line between paragraphs would have solved this problem sufficiently for me on a number of occasions, but instead I often found myself reversing my steps and trying to get my bearings as one scene suddenly changed radically without warning.  I am also not sure I completely understood the motivations of the Unicorn or fully bought in to the symbiotic link he and Kym shared in terms of overcoming their own private demons.  <br />Overall, The Scylla Hexagram is a rewarding read that does distinguish itself from the pack of modern thrillers.  The fact that it revolves around an economically complex form of terrorism is both a positive and anegative.  This isn't your typical type of espionage action novel (meaning this is much more than a tale of good guys going out with guns blazing to take care of stereotypical bad guys), but - that being the case - it is also a little less accessible to the general reader than your standard book of this genre.  This type of intellectual thriller won't appeal to all readers, but it does offer a refreshingly different type of reading experience to those seeking more than recreational entertainment.	2004-05-13
678693:US	53016962	RWGLPXZF9HL4X	0595660290	695411145	Being a Dad: The Stuff No One Told Me	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A hilarious celebration of the true joy of fatherhood	Being a Dad: The Stuff No One Told Me is one of the funniest books I have read in a long, long time.  This isn't some kind of guidebook for present and future dads, it's pretty much one man's retelling of a number of memorable and exceedingly humorous experiences he has shared with his two young sons over the course of their young lives.  Much of what Dale Alderman says rings true with me, and I'm not even a father (heck, I'm scared of anyone under twelve years old), so I am convinced that many parents out there (mothers as well as fathers, but especially fathers) will be nodding their heads and mumbling things such as \\"Yep, I know what that's like\\" and \\"The same thing happened to me\\" as they laugh their way from one chapter to the next.<br />You may want to think about reading this book while no one else is around.  Being a Dad will have you laughing out loud time and time again, and there are far too many people out there in the world who see a reader laughing and simply feel compelled to say something like \\"That book cannot possibly be that funny.\\"  Take it from me, folks - Being a Dad is that funny!  (I almost never use exclamation marks, so you know I'm telling the truth here.)  It's not easy to laugh and wince at the same time, but Dale Alderman even had me laughing through a chapter dealing with the V word (vasectomy) - anyone who can make the details of a vasectomy funny is a comical genius.<br />As Alderman points out in his introduction, he isn't offering advice here; he is just telling a number of funny stories based on his own experience as a father.  His style of presentation is eloquent yet personal, incredibly witty yet sincere; he writes as if he were sitting there telling you these funny stories firsthand, and he is more than willing to talk about his own mistakes and embarrassing moments.  You will learn all about the Hooter Fairy, find out which brand of nipple cream reigns supreme, hear all about the magic of growing older while your children run circles around you, and experience the real-life joys and headaches of vacationing with little children, attending children's parties, and trying to get through each day without a blow or kick in a sensitive area.  Little League games, field trips, special father-son days: these are major events in the life of a father, and Alderman recounts his own experiences in vivid detail.<br />Through it all, Alderman's genuine love for his wife and children as well as the true joy he finds in even the most trying of days in the life of a husband and father are obvious.  In a very real sense, this book wonderfully communicates the true joy of fatherhood, and what could be more important than that, really?  The world needs more fathers like Dale Alderman.un circles around you, and experience the real-life joys and headaches of vacationing with little children, attending children's parties, and trying to get through each day without a blow or kick in a sensitive area.  Little League games, field trips, special father-son days: these are major events in the life of a father, and Alderman recounts his own experiences in vivid detail.  <br />Through it all, Alderman's genuine love for his wife and children as well as the true joy he finds in even the most trying of days in the life of a husband and father are obvious.  In a very real sense, this book wonderfully communicates the true joy of fatherhood, and what could be more important than that, really?  The world needs more fathers like Dale Alderman.	2004-05-06
683199:US	53016962	RUF6190V3C4SP	0451456726	65025730	Heir to the Shadows	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Anne Bishop crafts dark fantasy into a literary art form	I can't help but compare author Anne Bishop with this novel's main character Jaenelle, a long-awaited dark queen possessing a power no queen has ever seen the likes of before, and I would gladly serve in any literary court Anne Bishop chose to form.  Just as Jaenelle establishes herself as the Queen of the Darkness in all her glory over the course of these pages, so Anne Bishop stakes a rightful claim to the title of Queen of Dark Fantasy.  Heir to the Shadows accomplishes the impossible: not only is it a more impressive novel than Daughter of the Blood, it blows that first novel right out of the water with its intensity and extraordinary vision.  I only wish I could convey in words the originality, genius, emotion, power, and literary magic that is Heir to the Shadows.<br />You really must read Daughter of the Blood before immersing yourself in this second novel of the trilogy.  The realms of Terreille, Kaeleer, and Hell are not fictional worlds you can just drop in to visit, nor are the characters in this story at all comprehensible without your having made the journey to this point alongside them.  The \\"good guys,\\" by way of example, include Saetan, the High Lord of Hell, and his half-demon sons Daemon and Lucivar, as well as Jaenelle who is \\"dreams made flesh,\\" Witch herself.  The final set of events closing out Daughter of the Blood reach in and squeeze your heart dry, as you watch a beautiful and innocent young girl suffer dreadfully, and it is this emotional crescendo that breaks across the very first pages of Heir to the Shadows and carries you along with it, breathless, for close to 500 pages.  You would think that such a powerful young queen as Jaenelle would lead a charmed life, but let there be no doubt that Jaenelle has suffered and continues to suffer terribly.  As this novel opens, Jaenelle's guardians do not know if Jaenelle will even return to them.  The horrors committed upon her body and mind, orchestrated by a malevolent witch queen and the power-hungry High Priestess of Hell, have forced her to retreat deep in to the black abyss; Daemon, an incredible character I cannot even begin to describe here, is himself lost to the alliance of protectors, having pushed himself too far in his effort to call Jaenelle back.  Daemon towered above the pages of the original novel, but he is soon trapped in the Twisted Kingdom, tricked into believing he killed Jaenelle.  Fortunately, another son of Saetan emerges to protect and guide the future queen, Daemon's brother Lucivar, a winged Eyrien who is himself initially tricked into believing Daemon guilty of killing the queen both brothers pledged themselves to serve.<br />In this novel, we witness Jaenelle grow and mature through her teenaged years and develop into full womanhood.  We see traces of the Jaenelle who charmed us into loving submission in the first novel, but the intense suffering she has endured has irrevocably changed the young maiden.  For a long time, she has no memory of the trauma that almost destroyed her, but she is terribly withdrawn and touched with a darkness her soul should never have had to endure.  Now under the official guardianship of Saetan, she picks up the broken pieces of her life.  She is greatly helped in this regard by the assembly of a number of her childhood friends: future queens of nearby lands as well as creatures previously known only in legends and myths.  Jaenelle breaks down the magical barriers separating the world Saetan knows from the hidden realms of unicorns, centaurs, wolves, dream-weaving spiders, and other creatures known as the kindred.  The kindred are also children of the Blood, but the Dark Council, under the control of Jaenelle's enemies, refuses to recognize this fact and begins a terrible campaign that forces Jaenelle to take steps she doesn't really want to take.  There is much misery and sadistic exploitation in this story, but there is also great hope inspired by Jaenelle, Saetan, and the members of what will become Jaenelle's Dark Court.  The forces of evil never rest, never stop scheming, and the amount of shed innocent blood is exceeded only by the impact of the continuing emotional and physical hardships inflicted upon Jaenelle.  I was almost moved to tears by the powerful climax of this novel.<br />Plenty of unresolved problems and critical plot elements remain, and I can scarcely imagine the dark power that Queen of the Darkness, the third and final novel in The Blood Jewels Trilogy, must contain.  I marvel somewhat at those who dismiss Bishop's work as romantic drivel.  While this is dark fantasy of a sensual nature, there is more horror to be found in these pages than in many a standard horror novel; sex is in fact the ultimate weapon by which perverted women of the Blood control the Blood males and rule the lands.  The romantic elements are actually rather subdued in this novel, largely due to the nature of Jaenelle's most hideous sufferings.  There is no ambivalence on my part: the books of The Black Jewels Trilogy are the most impressive works of dark fantasy I have ever read.ecome Jaenelle's Dark Court.  The forces of evil never rest, never stop scheming, and the amount of shed innocent blood is exceeded only by the impact of the continuing emotional and physical hardships inflicted upon Jaenelle.  I was almost moved to tears by the powerful climax of this novel.  <br />Plenty of unresolved problems and critical plot elements remain, and I can scarcely imagine the dark power that Queen of the Darkness, the third and final novel in The Blood Jewels Trilogy, must contain.   I marvel somewhat at those who dismiss Bishop's work as romantic drivel.  While this is dark fantasy of a sensual nature, there is more horror to be found in these pages than in many a standard horror novel; sex is in fact the ultimate weapon by which perverted women of the Blood control the Blood males and rule the lands.  The romantic elements are actually rather subdued in this novel, largely due to the nature of Jaenelle's most hideous sufferings.  There is no ambivalence on my part: the books of The Black Jewels Trilogy are the most impressive works of dark fantasy I have ever read.	2004-05-03
684919:US	53016962	R8O734SZ6EWXJ	0451459032	581054617	Doom's Break:: The Third Book of Arna (Doom's Break, 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The thrilling conclusion to a magnificent fantasy trilogy	Christopher Rowley's Books of Arna number among the best works of fantasy I have ever read; these are books full of rich characterization, vibrant personalities, great evil, even greater heroism, stunning military conflicts, love, hope, redemption - the list goes on and on.  Doom's Break: The Third Book of Arna takes the series to a stratospheric new level, as readers witness the long-awaited battle that will decide the fate of not only Arna but Shasht (the enemy's homeland) itself.<br />Arna is a peaceful land inhabited by mots, mors, and other intelligent creatures, but the invading armies of Man came seeking the annihilation of the &quot;fornicating monkeys&quot; and the colonization of their fertile land.  The mots and their kind have lived in peace since the most ancient of days, knowing nothing of war beyond the legends told of Man the Cruel.  They do not even know that men still exist anywhere on their world, for the ancient texts state that the men of old disappeared, having polluted and destroyed their environment while killing themselves off in a series of never-ending wars.  Some mots now question the old legends, asking if man ever really existed.  For these reasons, the mots of the land are woefully unprepared for any attack, especially from a well-trained, experienced, and murderous party of men.  <br />Our principal protagonist, Thru Gillo, wants nothing more than to establish himself as a gifted weaver, marry, and settle down with Nuza, the mor he loves.  The war brought to the Land by the men of Shasht changes Thru's world drastically.  As this third book in the series opens, the war has entered its fifth, dramatic, and decisive year.  Thru Gillo, one of the Land's best warriors, is on his way back from captivity in Shasht alongside his female human friend Simona of Gsekk and the brother of the Shashti emperor.  Another fleet carries the emperor himself (recently overthrown by the priests who, under the command of the mysterious and powerful Old One, really run the land of Shasht) as well as Thru's lost love Nuza.  The emperor and his supporters come to Arna to stop the colonial war of extermination, after which point they plan to return home to destroy the priests and restore the imperial government.  Suddenly, man and mot must put aside their mutual hatred of and work together to thwart a common enemy in the form of the Old One, his malicious priests, and an arsenal of unconventional weapons that neither mot nor man has ever faced before.  Once the final battles get underway in the land of Arna, the reader is treated to a vivid, fascinating description of the bloody conflict that leaves many dead on both sides.  The strategies employed by the opposing forces and the constant movements of soldiers to alternately attack and then hold the lines are mesmerizing in their detail and visual clarity.  I felt as if I were there on the battlefields myself watching the epic struggle take place before my very eyes. <br />There are many wonderful characters to be met in Rowley's tale; I feel as if I know many of them personally.  Thru Gillo is the epitome of gallant heroism, Simona of Gsekk stands out as a brave young woman who risks everything on several occasions in order to live her own life rather than one dictated to her by any man.  General Toshak, leader of the mot army, represents everything a good leader should be.  The one and only weakness of this novel comes in the epilogue: in the book's concluding chapters, one important character seemed to fall by the wayside, and Rowley seemingly attempts to compensate for this by quickly addressing the character's future in the epilogue; unfortunately, this last-minute revelation really doesn't seem to fit this particular character, at least to my mind.  <br />On the surface, Doom's Break: The Third Book of Arna is a captivating work of fantasy, but much more lies beyond the surface.  Rowley's description of Man the Cruel essentially holds a mirror up to the eyes of society today, calling upon us to learn to live and work together with our fellow man.  For me, this novel represents fantasy at its very best.	2004-05-01
685321:US	53016962	R2JH4ICE6V06H1	0664222226	640513848	The Gospel According to Peanuts	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A convincing argument for the use of modern-day parables	The Gospel According to Peanuts is a truly fascinating little book filled with insight, wisdom, and the type of joy that Christians should naturally espouse.  Robert L. Short certainly does not argue that every single Peanuts cartoon carries a theological message, but he offers up an amazing selection of comic strips that do in fact encapsulate a number of important Christian beliefs.  He begins the book with a justification for Christians embracing the arts as a means of spreading the Gospel to those around them.  The fact that Charles Schulz himself was a Christian is, in a sense, immaterial; as Short argues, Christians should embrace all manner of things which will allow them to connect with others in a subtle and less holier-than-thou manner.  You can't go around beating people over the head with God and get results, no matter how good your intentions.  Engage them in the arts or some other object of mutual interest, and you open up innumerable outlets for Christian witnessing.  For those who would scoff at the notion of linking Christianity with comedy, Short reminds us that, to the world, Christianity is itself rather comical.  It is a wonderful argument that offers up much food for thought.<br />In the same vein as the parables of Jesus, Short makes use of dozens of Peanuts comic strips to shed light on a clear and understandable theology, finding many illustrative parallels in the lives of the Peanuts gang.  Charlie Brown, in a very real sense, represents Everyman, a jolly good fellow who is always looking for something to improve a life that is, by and large, rather miserable - he never wins, just as mankind, on its own, never wins.  Charlie Brown is also prone to moments of great anxiety, a fear of nothingness and emptiness.  Short's most memorable comparisons, though, are to be found in the other central characters of Peanuts.  Lucy's psychiatric business represents the rather modern fad of humans looking toward psychiatry to solve their problems and to reveal to them why they are so unhappy.  Then there is Linus, who tends to try to run away from his problems and finds comfort only in his blanket.  In Short's hands, the Great Pumpkin becomes a symbol of popular religious sentiment - Linus says, at one point, that it doesn't really matter what you believe as long as you are sincere.  Of course, the Great Pumpkin never appears.  Even more interesting is Linus' attitude toward Santa Claus, for, in Short's analysis, it represents the attitude of many professed Christians toward God.  As Linus expects to be rewarded by Santa for his good behavior, some Christians seem to believe that by obeying God's commandments and doing good works, God owes them a reward.  You can't pretend to be good and get to heaven, Short reminds us.  Eternal life is a gift from God that no man can possibly earn on his own merits.  <br />Short also expounds upon the dual nature of God's love, illustrating his argument with comic strips featuring, for example, the positive and negative qualities of rain.  He concludes by offering a brilliant analysis of the words uttered so often by Charlie Brown: &quot;Goof grief.&quot;  Because you must become lost before you can be found and seek before you can find, grief can ultimately be a good thing, thanks solely to the death and resurrection of Jesus.  <br />I was amazed at the insights into Christianity this book delivered.  Non-Christians, even the Peanuts fans amongst them, may not enjoy this book because of its tenaciously theological design and purpose, but the truths that can be found in the comic strips of Charles Schulz can very effectively serve as the individual's exposure to and understanding of Christian faith.  This is a remarkable book, and its importance goes far beyond its pages.  Short shows how modern art and entertainment can help redefine and improve the effectiveness of the church in spreading the message of the Gospel to all men, women, and children.	2004-05-01
689134:US	53016962	R32JPAMOPWSXJ9	0816316791	4318926	Outrageous Grace: Finding a Forever Friendship With God	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A powerfully illuminating and inspirational book	Outrageous Grace: Finding a Forever Friendship With God is not a long book, but it is overflowing with illumination and inspiration.  Dwight K. Nelson addresses some of the hardest questions posed by sinners and believers alike concerning God, and he delivers eloquent and persuasive answers to those questions.  Even many Christians find it hard to reconcile the jealous God of the Old Testament with the meek and loving Jesus Christ and His Father of the New Testament.  On several occasions, the God of the Old Testament meted out divine punishment, struck fear in the hearts of his earthly children, and sometimes appeared more like a consuming fire than a loving Father.  He denied Moses and Aaron the right to enter the Promised Land after forty years of wandering in the desert after a seemingly minor transgression on Moses' part.  Even in the New Testament, in the early days of the church, God struck down Ananias and Sapphira when they conspired to secretly keep a portion of the money they made by selling a piece of property.  If God is Love, how could He have done these troubling things?  Taking the idea even further, how can a loving God allow so much misery and suffering in the world today?  These are questions all Christians ponder at some point.<br />Nelson does a fantastic job of tackling these hard issues.  In each and every case he examines, he puts forth convincing reasons for God's actions and shows they were all borne of love.  In formulating his central argument, Nelson goes all the way back to Lucifer's fall from grace and the introduction of sin in this world.  He does a wonderful job explaining why God did not simply destroy the rebel angels; moving from this, he blames Satan for spreading the lie that God should be feared.  He devotes a chapter to explaining just what sin really is, making brilliantly illuminating use of the parable of the prodigal son in this regard.  He backs up his argument that God meets us where we are and as we are, extrapolatingfrom this notion a brilliant explanation for the frightful appearances of God to the Israelites of Moses' day.  In cases such as the seemingly extreme deaths of Ananias and Sapphira, Nelson explains God's actions as a form of &quot;accelerated judgment&quot; made so as to protect the larger body of followers from the dangers it would otherwise be exposed to.  In each and every case, no matter how cruel God's action may seem on the surface, Nelson certainly proves to my satisfaction that God acted out of love and not jealousy or rage.  <br />God is not to blame for suffering and pain on earth, Nelson argues; He in fact shares all of our afflictions with us, and He proved the depth of his relentless love beyond doubt on Calvary some two thousand years ago.  God wants his children to love Him, but true love cannot exist unless men and women have the freedom to say No to divine love.  That is the heart of Nelson's explanation for the existence of pain and suffering among believers and non-believers alike. I found two of Nelson's related arguments very interesting.  Nelson does not think the existence of pain and suffering can be explained completely in terms of God using pain and suffering in order to teach us some valuable lesson or to somehow reach someone else in a special way.  I know many Christians who react to hard times by thinking God is punishing them for something, but Nelson warns against such thinking.  Such thoughts lead to a fear of God, which is exactly what Satan wants to achieve in the hearts of men.  In the pages of Outrageous Grace, Nelson shows that the God of the Old Testament is the same God of Jesus' day and our own time, a loving Father who acts only out of undying love for his children.  I believe all Christians would benefit enormously from reading this book.	2004-04-28
691149:US	53016962	R2R3MZD6072784	0451456718	81571344	Daughter of the Blood (Black Jewels, Book 1)	Books	5	145	159	N	N	Weaves a spell of dark magic that will leave you entranced	Wow!  I mean Wow!  Daughter of the Blood is one of the most mesmerizing, powerful, unforgettable books I have ever read.  Talk about making a splash with your first published novel; Anne Bishop does that and more.  This is the kind of complex, intricately crafted novel that almost demands multiple readings if one is to grasp all of the nuances worked seamlessly into the story.  The universe Bishop brings to life here is unlike any other I have had the good fortune to tread, and while I sometimes felt unsure of certain elements of the plot and a little confused about several of the large number of characters featured herein, the writing is devastatingly captivating.  Some people call this a mix of romance and horror; for all my horror loving friends out there, don't let the mention of romance stop you from immersing yourself in this incredible novel.  I would categorize Daughter of the Blood as a sensuous dark fantasy of a type many horror fans should love.<br />Daughter of the Blood is a concentrated form of literary magic.  Like magic, one often finds oneself shocked and amused, unable to explain what you just experienced but blown away by the impact of it.  The action takes place in a fantastic world where the land of the living overlays the land of the demon-dead, the very fabric of realities linked together with the beauty and force of powerful silken webs of existence so tiny that most of the living never suspect their existence.  It is a dark universe where traditional good and evil transcend one another.  In fact, the most positive of forces reside in Hell itself, led by Saetan, the High Lord of Hell himself.  Two of his estranged sons, Lucivar and Daemon, exist among the living on the other side of the veil, enduring unbelievable hardships at the hands of powerful female witches.  Women rule the world of the living, and even the most powerful of men are exploited and dominated.  Those &quot;of the Blood,&quot; both women and men, possess magical powers drawn from an assortment of multi-colored jewels, but even men of the Black (the most powerful jewel) are subjugated and enslaved to demented Black Widow queens and priestesses.  Daemon has been forced to serve his queens in the most humiliating of ways for centuries; having never known his father, he has become the coldest of men, forced to wear the Ring of Obedience (and, let me tell you, you don't wear this particular ring on your finger) and suffer terrible brutalities.  Only his dreams of she who is yet to come, the only woman he will willingly serve, keep him from falling into an abyss too deep to return from.<br />Everything changes, in both Hell and the world of the living, when the prophecy of a new and all-powerful witch is fulfilled in the form of a sapphire-eyed young lady named Jaenelle.  She is not just &quot;a witch;&quot; rather, she is Witch.  At twelve years old, she has little understanding of just what she is, but she travels between the realms to seek the instruction of Saetan in the Craft and continually amazes her new tutor with the power and knowledge she possesses.  Daemon, whom Saetan first views as a possible threat to Jaenelle, ends up serving Jaenelle's grandmother and develops a powerful bond and a very real love for the young lady.  He will become her protector from several forces of evil, namely the corrupted Black Widows and dark priestesses now holding sway in the land, women intent on destroying Jaenelle and the threat she poses to their continued rule by perversion.  Daemon is one of the most impressively constructed characters I have met in a long time, as is Jaenelle.  Surprisingly, there are moments of great humor to be found in these pages, most of them arising from the young girl's naivet&eacute; about the world and Saetan's attempts to answer her increasingly bold questions, but a continuously dark story takes a dramatically shocking dark turn toward the end as Jaenelle's secret life, the one she keeps hidden from Saetan and Daemon, is exposed, threatening to destroy her and the men bound to serve her.  The romantic elements of the novel, seemingly problematic due to the character's young age, are handled with great care and beauty, revealing the hand of a true master craftswoman of words at work here.<br />Those who like their novels straightforward and easily understandable may balk at the richness of the world Anne Bishop has created here, but lovers of dark fantasy and well-constructed literature in general will find themselves immersed in a world they have never imagined.  I don't have the words to describe just how powerful an effect this book had on my consciousness and emotions.  This first book of The Black Jewels Trilogy is the most unique and easily the most powerful work of dark fantasy I have ever read.  Thank goodness there are two additional books in the series, for I could not, at this point, leave this universe of Bishop's creation even if I wanted to.exposed, threatening to destroy her and the men bound to serve her.  The romantic elements of the novel, seemingly problematic due to the character's young age, are handled with great care and beauty, revealing the hand of a true master craftswoman of words at work here.  <br />Those who like their novels straightforward and easily understandable may balk at the richness of the world Anne Bishop has created here, but lovers of dark fantasy and well-constructed literature in general will find themselves immersed in a world they have never imagined.  I don't have the words to describe just how powerful an effect this book had on my consciousness and emotions.  This first book of The Black Jewels Trilogy is the most unique and easily the most powerful work of dark fantasy I have ever read.  Thank goodness there are two additional books in the series, for I could not, at this point, leave this universe of Bishop's creation even if I wanted to.	2004-04-26
693044:US	53016962	R4L2DVIKOGEW0	0786867752	646198134	When You Come to a Fork in the Road, Take It!: Inspiration and Wisdom From One of Baseball's Greatest Heroes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	We can all learn a lot from Yogi Berra	Yogi Berra is an American treasure, epitomizing many of the things that make America great.  As a legend in life as well as a legend in baseball, the common-sense pearls of wisdom that drop from his lips are as instructive as they are humorous.  I consider Yogi the common man's philosopher.  This book offers forty chapters, each containing helpful advice, based upon a famous Yogi-ism, as well as inspiration to the reader.  Most of us already know most of these lessons, but we need to be reminded of them periodically.  Yogi is the perfect teacher.  He is humble and honest, perfectly willing to use his own failures as well as his successes as object lessons for the rest of us; he also speaks from the heart in plain language.  I love the unpretentious nature of this book; maybe it breaks a few rules of proper grammar, but it comes across in such a way that you half believe Yogi is sitting in the room with you and just talking.  Yogi does offer up a number of parallels between baseball and business, stressing the importance of true teamwork, loyalty, and the personal involvement and commitment of all involved, but most of the lessons he imparts here are lessons about life and the proper way to live it.  All the inspiration and wisdom aside, though, I have to admit that what I enjoy the most is Yogi's baseball stories.  Baseball was a different game back when Yogi was playing, and I'm sure I'm not the only fan whose love of the game has faded as the game has turned into an impersonal industry.  Yogi represents baseball at its best.<br />I also enjoyed learning a little more about Yogi's personal life - heck, I didn't even know how he got the name Yogi before I read this book.  Here's a kid born in St. Louis to first-generation immigrants who quit school after eighth grade and pursued a dream that many people said he would never attain.  All he did was play on ten World Series championship teams, earn three MVP awards, and become one of the most-loved baseball heroes of all time - heck, I bet there are even some Red Sox fans who love Yogi.  He is also a war hero, having fought in the D-Day landing at Normandy.  (He also played a brain surgeon on an episode of General Hospital back in the early 1960s, as I was quite shocked to learn.)  With all of his success, though, he has always been remarkably humble and quick to thank those who made his good fortune possible.  He is a great role model for kids as well as adults, and we all can learn a great deal about life by heeding his practical advice.ll time - heck, I bet there are even some Red Sox fans who love Yogi.  He is also a war hero, having fought in the D-Day landing at Normandy.  (He also played a brain surgeon on an episode of General Hospital back in the early 1960s, as I was quite shocked to learn.)  With all of his success, though, he has always been remarkably humble and quick to thank those who made his good fortune possible.  He is a great role model for kids as well as adults, and we all can learn a great deal about life by heeding his practical advice.	2004-04-25
694414:US	53016962	RM2NZQNRAF948	0972630015	284856859	Morbid Drive: A Comprehensive Study of Pure Evil, Dieting, and the Undead	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Macabre humor at its very best	Ron Cremeans, the writer and creator of Morbid Drive, is a fiendishly clever fellow who has looked into the Darkness and seen just how funny evil can be.  Those who delight in macabre humor will find their trip down Morbid Drive a rewarding and enjoyable jaunt.  Waiting for the reader, up at the old gloomy manor on the hill in Witchgrowe, is none other than the Prince of Darkness himself (no, not that Prince of Darkness - the other one), just waiting to welcome you into the vampire lifestyle, introduce you to the denizens of his abode, and espouse his own evil philosophies, most of which make a lot of sense to me.  Just because he's a six hundred year old vampire stuck in the body of an 18-month-old child doesn't mean he doesn't know what he's talking about.  Some people call him a monster, just because he likes to eat people every so often, but our host knows what a monster really is.  His brief explanation of man's relationship with his environment is spot-on brilliant, and it is hard to disagree with his assertion that man is the true monster in the world.  Granted, centuries of being treated like an 18-month-old child by humans may play a part in his thinking.<br />Morbid Drive features a nice mix of text and comic strips.  In between our diminutive host's dark philosophical ruminations and instructions for vampire newbies, he describes his fellow residents of the manor: Professor Hal Geigercounter, a diabolical mad scientist; Earlie L. Shatterbone, the Professor's hunchbacked assistant (often mistaken for Mandy Patinkin) whose desire to do evil is surpassed only by his incompetence at same; Amos Denning, better known as Buttercup, the mad Frankenstein's monster-like creation of the Professor's who is best known for walking around without his pants; Uncle Ian, Death's most uncooperative customer; and Stickpin, caretaker of the estate, voodoo creation, and unfailing do-gooder who tends to ruin many an evil plan.  These characters come to life (or, as the case may be, unlife) in the various comic strips following each character's introduction, each one of them doing his part to make Morbid Drive &quot;the scariest comic strip on earth.&quot;<br />Many may be surprised to learn that becoming a vampire doesn't necessarily make you evil.  Sure, waking up in the middle of the night to find some fiendish creature gnawing on your neck will make you mad, it might even tickle a little bit, but it won't make you evil.  It's up to you not to waste your newly-acquired undead status.  This is just one of many vampire truths you will learn on your Morbid Drive excursion.  The spooky manor on the hill in Witchgrowe beckons all horror fans, particularly those with a macabre sense of humor (which is just about all of us, I think), to its open doors - well, actually, the doors are probably shut, but I'm sure one of the manor's unusual residents will let you in if you ask nicely.  Just don't be surprised if he's not wearing any pants.ay be, unlife) in the various comic strips following each character's introduction, each one of them doing his part to make Morbid Drive &quot;the scariest comic strip on earth.&quot;<br />Many may be surprised to learn that becoming a vampire doesn't necessarily make you evil.  Sure, waking up in the middle of the night to find some fiendish creature gnawing on your neck will make you mad, it might even tickle a little bit, but it won't make you evil.  It's up to you not to waste your newly-acquired undead status.  This is just one of many vampire truths you will learn on your Morbid Drive excursion.  The spooky manor on the hill in Witchgrowe beckons all horror fans, particularly those with a macabre sense of humor (which is just about all of us, I think), to its open doors - well, actually, the doors are probably shut, but I'm sure one of the manor's unusual residents will let you in if you ask nicely.  Just don't be surprised if he's not wearing any pants.	2004-04-24
703128:US	53016962	R3HBODNVDY9VCW	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Book Two of the best sci fi series to come along in years	It has been many years since I have been this excited and emotionally attached to a science fiction series.  In A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2, Kevin J. Anderson not only builds upon the galactic epic begun in Hidden Empire, he makes the incredible drama detailed in the first book seem like a warm-up act to the real performance.  You have to commit yourself to the story; there is just too much happening to too many characters for you to read this novel in dribs and drabs and expect to keep up, but that should not be a problem because A Forest of Stars is all but impossible to ever put down in the first place.<br />Five years have passed since the Earth-based Terran Hanseatic League used ancient alien technology to turn a gas giant into a brand new star, thereby incurring the wrath of the unknown and seemingly unstoppable race of hydrogues who call the gas giants home.  Almost every race and planet in the Spiral Arm has suffered both mentally and physically at the hands of the hydrogues, while the deadly enemy's refusal to allow ekti (the source of stardrive fuel) mining in the atmospheres of their home planets has crippled the galactic economy.  Even the impressive Solar Navy of the might Ilderan Empire has been proved embarrassingly inferior to the destructive hydrogues.  The ominous events detailed in Hidden Empire barely hint at the things to come in the pages of this second entry in the series.  A Forest of Stars will take your breath away again and again.<br />I could never begin to describe all of the momentous and oftentimes shocking things that take place in this novel.  The improved military might of the Hansa's Emergency Defense Force remains ineffective against the hydrogues, and the growing scarcity of stardrive fuel has resulted in the breakdown of Hansa control over a number of its colonies.  The Roamers, descendants of earth-based pioneers, continue to maintain their independence and nomadic lifestyle among the stars, but the Roamer economy struggles as its very foundation, the mining and selling of ekti for stardrive fuel, collapses.  On Theroc, home of the sentient worldforest, life goes on much as normal for some time, but even the Therons will not emerge from this book unscathed.  On Earth, young King Peter, a king in name only, matures and begins to assert himself, all but openly rebelling against the true source of Hansa power - Chairman Basil Wenceslas.  Across the Spiral Arm, the true intentions and plans of the Mage-Imperator of the Ilderan Empire are made known, invoking great emotional pain among several important characters as well as the reader.  Power changes hands on almost every central civilization involved before A Forest of Stars ends.  Beloved characters die, incredible new plot elements (as well as unexpected, mysterious forces) are thrown into the mix, the destructive hydrogues still seem unstoppable, and romance in all its forms tears at the heart-strings of the reader.  Kevin J. Anderson holds nothing back.<br />Two lengthy books into this saga, the story is amazingly even more refreshing and promising than ever; I get the distinct feeling that &quot;I ain't seen nothin' yet.&quot;  The very nature of the awful war changes in these pages, as we learn that this is an ancient war between elemental forces never before imagined by the humans and Ilderans who now find themselves dragged into the apocalyptic conflict.  Only now do we begin to understand just who the real enemies of the hydrogues are.  Only now do we learn of the Ilderans' secret plans for survival and their total subjugation of select humans in barbaric breeding grounds.  Only now do we gain insight into the disappearance of the ancient Klikiss race and begin to learn the truth about the incredible robots they left behind.<br />The Saga of Seven Suns is such a fantastic science fiction series that I would almost recommend waiting until the series is complete before reading it.  Having just read both of the first two novels, I am dying to learn what happens next - the wait for succeeding entries in this saga will be almost painful.  Oftentimes, science fiction characters are rather cold and distant from the reader, but Anderson brings each of his characters to life and, through their triumphs and sorrows, brings the reader intimately into their world.  No one (apart from the hydrogues) is starkly good or evil.  Best of all, I have no idea how events will play out from this point forward.  I may only be two books into this open-ended epic science fiction series, but I can already say that The Saga of Seven Suns is the most impressive, exciting series I have read since Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings.he first two novels, I am dying to learn what happens next - the wait for succeeding entries in this saga will be almost painful.  Oftentimes, science fiction characters are rather cold and distant from the reader, but Anderson brings each of his characters to life and, through their triumphs and sorrows, brings the reader intimately into their world.  No one (apart from the hydrogues) is starkly good or evil.  Best of all, I have no idea how events will play out from this point forward.  I may only be two books into this open-ended epic science fiction series, but I can already say that The Saga of Seven Suns is the most impressive, exciting series I have read since Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings.	2004-04-17
705788:US	53016962	R363RQBU9Z2F7F	0441009840	71624158	Deceptions (Laws of the Blood, Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An attempted coup in Washington - vampire-style	Deceptions is a wonderfully entertaining novel, in many ways the best of the first four books in Susan Sizemore's Laws of the Blood series, yet there a few aspects of the story that weaken it a little bit, in my own estimation.  I actually think the author had a little too much fun writing such an obviously crowd-pleasing novel, and this led her to extend the magic of coincidence just a little too far.  There is more than enough exciting action to be found in these pages to make up for any flaws, however.<br />Deceptions takes us to Washington, D.C., always a dangerous place.  This turf belongs to Olympias, ancient vampire and exceedingly powerful Enforcer of the laws; not only does she have to keep the local population of blood-suckers at bay, she has the added task of making sure no one in the government learns about the actual existence of her kind.  After centuries of exercising vast power, she has begun to slip a little, entrusting a lot of authority (not to mention work) to her slaves, especially her secretarial slave Sara.  Olympias has chosen a bad time to start nodding at the wheel because Roger Bentencourt, the Companion of a local vampire, is bent on revenge and the acquisition of power without having to wait around for his eventual transformation from vampire's Companion to actual vampire.  Bentencourt sets in motion a plan to turn the local nests against Olympias, culminating in what should be unthinkable - usurping her power and replacing her with one of their own (one whom Bentencourt knows he can manipulate and control).  Olympias indirectly plays into the usurper's hands by ordering all of the nests out of the territory and seemingly stealing a young fledgling's chosen mate.  Bentencourt is slick, gaining influence over members of Olympias' own slave nest as well as some special humans who enter the picture.  Michael Falconer leads a group of Watchers (men and women who practice something akin to remote viewing), and Falconer finds himself in the middle of a vampire mess when a young vampire seeks to make him her Companion, after which point Olympias takes a very strong interest in him.  The inclusion of the Watchers into the story adds a new and fresh element to events that works quite well.  As if all of this isn't distraction enough for Olympias, the presence of a suicidal vampire makes things even more interesting.<br />There is a lot of exciting action throughout this book, and several nice touches that play well and add originality to Sizemore's vision.  I just thought there were a few too many coincidences for my blood; the very source of Bentencourt's hatred for Olympias is rather laughable, and there is another highly coincidental plot point I won't mention for fear of giving something away.  I also have trouble accepting the fact that a vampire Companion, no matter how smart he might be, could hide his nefarious intentions from a number of incredibly psychic vampires - that is the major sticking point for me.  Characters also have an annoying habit of engaging in flirtatious dialogues in the midst of trouble with a capital T.  Still, you will find some of Sizemore's most fascinating characters in Deceptions, with Olympias assuming the distinction of being my favorite character of the series up to this point.  Whatever qualms I have about the story, there is no denying this is a book that can deliver loads of entertainment to the reader.ddle of a vampire mess when a young vampire seeks to make him her Companion, after which point Olympias takes a very strong interest in him.  The inclusion of the Watchers into the story adds a new and fresh element to events that works quite well.  As if all of this isn't distraction enough for Olympias, the presence of a suicidal vampire makes things even more interesting.<br />There is a lot of exciting action throughout this book, and several nice touches that play well and add originality to Sizemore's vision.  I just thought there were a few too many coincidences for my blood; the very source of Bentencourt's hatred for Olympias is rather laughable, and there is another highly coincidental plot point I won't mention for fear of giving something away.  I also have trouble accepting the fact that a vampire Companion, no matter how smart he might be, could hide his nefarious intentions from a number of incredibly psychic vampires - that is the major sticking point for me.  Characters also have an annoying habit of engaging in flirtatious dialogues in the midst of trouble with a capital T.  Still, you will find some of Sizemore's most fascinating characters in Deceptions, with Olympias assuming the distinction of being my favorite character of the series up to this point.  Whatever qualms I have about the story, there is no denying this is a book that can deliver loads of entertainment to the reader.	2004-04-15
708742:US	53016962	R3U95T1T9AZ4Y1	0441008755	363405363	Companions (Laws of the Blood, Book 3 )	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	The triumphant third book in the Laws of the Blood series	The first two books in Susan Sizemore's Laws of the Blood series are quite good, but Companions is really something special.  The dual protagonists are as dynamic as they are fascinating, the expanded commentary on Sizemore's unique fictional universe of vampires and companions is impressive and illuminating, and the action-packed storyline is a true page-turner.  Mention of Istvan has been made in the previous books - whispers of his unparalleled prowess among the Enforcers of the vampire laws - and I must say he lives up to his reputation in spades.  In Companions, we learn his remarkable story, but even Istvan, with all of his might, wisdom, and power, pales somewhat in comparison to Selena, the most unusual of vampire companions.<br />Istvan is a dhampir born over five centuries ago - he actually worked for Count Dracula for awhile.  He hates vampires and has killed many over the centuries; even though he was turned into a vampire himself (a dangerous mistake rectified in the laws soon thereafter - there is no more formidable vampire killer than a dhampir who has been turned) and works ceaselessly to defend vampire law, he has always kept himself apart from a traditional vampire lifestyle.  That includes the taking of a companion, a practice virtually all vampires engage in.  A bit of deception, though, brought him together with Selena Crawford two years earlier; he has fought the bloodbond that was forged between the two, however, and pretty much left Selena alone.  She herself both hates and likes the situation; while she wants nothing to do with Istvan, the bloodbond is a powerful force that cannot be defeated by even the strongest of personalities - and Selena happens to have one of the strongest personalities you will ever encounter.<br />Now, Enforcer and companion are brought together once again, however, in the search for a vampire killer roaming the streets of Chicago.  Selena is a homicide detective, but she knows that a beheaded vampire dumped in an alley falls under a very different jurisdiction than her own.  While the local enforcer Ariel and eventually Istvan take over the &quot;case,&quot; Selena does plenty of work on her own, identifying the killer and, blaming a particularly despicable vampire for indirectly causing all the trouble, takes the initiative to do something about the evil perp.  Companions are not supposed to even know of each other's existence across the different cities of the world, yet there is a cybersecret support group for them, and this connection with others like herself provides Selena the support she needs to stage a mini-revolution among the ranks.  In essence, she takes on the role of Enforcer among vampire companions.<br />The story of the killings and the thrilling conclusion of events makes for an engaging read, but it is the relationship between Istvan and Selena that makes this book such a triumph.  Selena does not act like a companion; while the heat of the bloodbond keeps driving her and Istvan together in the most physical of ways, she refuses to fawn upon him or allow his actions to go unchallenged.  This both antagonizes as well as delights the chief Enforcer of them all.  Their sporadic relationship is remarkably human in several ways, boasting the kind of give-and-take you won't find elsewhere in the vampire world.  Heck, she even tries to kill Istvan a couple of times, and that is something companions are really not supposed to do.  You'll find a lot of humor in these pages alongside plenty of vampire action, but the heart and soul of Companions is the amazingly nontraditional relationship between vampire and companion.  If you are tired of the same old vampire plots of old, you would do well to give Susan Sizemore a chance to impress you with her increasingly beguiling reworking of the vampire myth.lley falls under a very different jurisdiction than her own.  While the local enforcer Ariel and eventually Istvan take over the &quot;case,&quot; Selena does plenty of work on her own, identifying the killer and, blaming a particularly despicable vampire for indirectly causing all the trouble, takes the initiative to do something about the evil perp.  Companions are not supposed to even know of each other's existence across the different cities of the world, yet there is a cybersecret support group for them, and this connection with others like herself provides Selena the support she needs to stage a mini-revolution among the ranks.  In essence, she takes on the role of Enforcer among vampire companions.<br />The story of the killings and the thrilling conclusion of events makes for an engaging read, but it is the relationship between Istvan and Selena that makes this book such a triumph.  Selena does not act like a companion; while the heat of the bloodbond keeps driving her and Istvan together in the most physical of ways, she refuses to fawn upon him or allow his actions to go unchallenged.  This both antagonizes as well as delights the chief Enforcer of them all.  Their sporadic relationship is remarkably human in several ways, boasting the kind of give-and-take you won't find elsewhere in the vampire world.  Heck, she even tries to kill Istvan a couple of times, and that is something companions are really not supposed to do.  You'll find a lot of humor in these pages alongside plenty of vampire action, but the heart and soul of Companions is the amazingly nontraditional relationship between vampire and companion.  If you are tired of the same old vampire plots of old, you would do well to give Susan Sizemore a chance to impress you with her increasingly beguiling reworking of the vampire myth.	2004-04-13
709434:US	53016962	R3VGHIB3Z2ARUP	044100783X	430288648	Partners (Laws of the Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A demonic threat makes for strange vampiric bedfellows	Partners is the second book in Susan Sizemore's Laws of the Blood series, and while I enjoyed the first novel, The Hunt, I found Partners to be a much more energetic and entertaining read.  There is a lot of life in this novel's characters, especially the undead ones, and I felt like an active observer of all the action that takes place in these pages.  Partners also significantly expands upon the self-styled vampire mythology that Sizemore is crafting in this fresh and unusual series.  Not only do we learn more about vampires, we are also introduced to other supernatural creatures lurking within the shadows of human society.<br />Vampires are subject to their own special laws in this universe, and Enforcers are the ubervampires charged with the duty to enforce these laws.  Vampires can only feed upon mortal flesh in authorized Hunts, for example.  Most importantly, they can do nothing that would alert the human population to their presence.  When vampires break the law, Enforcers serve as judge, jury, and executioner.  Charlotte McCairn is a relatively new Enforcer; in the two years since her transformation from vampire to Hunter, she has spent her time doing research rather than face active duty out on the streets.  She calls herself Char because that sounds tough, but she has yet to earn the distinction of the name.  That changes when Istvan the dhampir, the baddest Enforcer of them all, sends her out to kill Jebel Haven.  Haven is a self-styled vampire killer; even though the vampire-like creatures he has devoted his life to killing aren't actually vampires, the Strigoi Council has decided he poses a future threat to vampirekind and must be eliminated.  At the same time, a vampire nest leader comes to Char asking for help - one of her nestlings has disappeared and may be involved in some pretty dark activities (of the sulfurous variety) - a definite no-no in vampire circles.  Meanwhile, vampire buster Jebel Haven is coerced into taking a job of his own, hunting the very same vampire Char is searching for.  The missing young vampire seems to have gotten mixed up with a demon, and Char and Haven eventually work together in an uneasy, complicated, increasingly close partnership to find him.  Char plans to kill Jebel after the search is over, of course, but things get a little complicated along the way.<br />Char is a fascinating character, learning the ways of the Enforcer before our (and Jebel's) very eyes.  There is plenty of action to keep the reader engaged in the story, and the evolving relationship between Char and Jebel is not only interesting but a lot of fun to watch.  After all, vampire killer meets vampire charged with the task of killing said vampire hunter isn't your typical romantic pairing.  Sizemore does a wonderful job letting the relationship develop, giving us quite a grounding in her vision of vampirology in the process.  At the same time, the question of how these two opposites will react toward one another in the end is never far from the reader's mind.  All of this makes for an engaging and refreshingly different sort of vampire story and helps establish Susan Sizemore as a bonafide modern craftswoman in the art of vampirology.g the very same vampire Char is searching for.  The missing young vampire seems to have gotten mixed up with a demon, and Char and Haven eventually work together in an uneasy, complicated, increasingly close partnership to find him.  Char plans to kill Jebel after the search is over, of course, but things get a little complicated along the way.<br />Char is a fascinating character, learning the ways of the Enforcer before our (and Jebel's) very eyes.  There is plenty of action to keep the reader engaged in the story, and the evolving relationship between Char and Jebel is not only interesting but a lot of fun to watch.  After all, vampire killer meets vampire charged with the task of killing said vampire hunter isn't your typical romantic pairing.  Sizemore does a wonderful job letting the relationship develop, giving us quite a grounding in her vision of vampirology in the process.  At the same time, the question of how these two opposites will react toward one another in the end is never far from the reader's mind.  All of this makes for an engaging and refreshingly different sort of vampire story and helps establish Susan Sizemore as a bonafide modern craftswoman in the art of vampirology.	2004-04-12
712674:US	53016962	R3DATHQY2EB6V	0441006604	822090862	The Hunt (Laws of the Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	No one ever said being an Enforcer vampire was easy	The Hunt is the first novel in Susan Sizemore's notably unusual Laws of the Blood series, and she melds romance alongside horror to create what some might be called a work of sensuous dark fantasy.  Sizemore has published novels in a wide range of genres, and I have to admit I had some doubts about this series going on; it's not often you encounter a romance writer treading the darker paths of literature.  Sizemore obviously knows what she is doing, though, and the end result in this case is a refreshingly different take on the subject of vampires.<br />Vampires do have rules to live by, embodied in the Laws of the Blood.  The laws are for the vampires' protection as much as the teeming millions of humans who unknowingly occupy the vampires' world.  If word of the vampires' real-life existence got out, mankind would not rest until these &quot;monsters&quot; of the night were destroyed.  Of course, vampires roiling in the overpowering desire of bloodlust can't really be depended upon to play it cool in all situations, and that is why there are Enforcers in each area.  The word of the Enforcer vampire is law and must be obeyed.  This is especially important during periods of the Hunt.  Vampires are not permitted to kill humans according to their whims, but they must hunt and sate their bloodthirst periodically.  It is up to the Enforcer to name the number of victims, identify them, and set everything up for the Hunt.  In the Los Angeles area, the Enforcer is named Selim.  His job is not an easy one.  A couple of the local vampires resent his power over them and seek a means to overturn the ancient Laws and feed when and where they choose.  He also has a five-year-old dhampir, the first dhampir born in many, many years, to worry about and protect - vampires do not like dhampirs as a rule, generally viewing them as huge threats to their kind.  Then there is Siri, Selim's Companion.  Virtually all vampires have one or more companions, human beings who love and serve their undead masters until such time as they become vampires themselves.  Cut a Companion loose too early or keep them close for too long out of your own love and need, and you risk creating a strigoi, a loner vampire who usually turns out pretty messed up in the head.<br />Selim has all of these problems weighing on him, distracting him.  His complex relationship with Siri is gravely threatened by Siri's disapproval of Selim's recent behavior and orders as an Enforcer - she finds the killing of innocents horrifying.  In a larger sense, though, it is a lack of communication and sharing that threatens to irreparably harm this relationship  Despite all of these concerns and worries, though, Selim is not even aware of his biggest problem of all.  Somewhere out there, an ancient vampire is scripting a movie called If Truth Be Told, a film which will tell the true story of vampires - in fact, it will tell Selim's own story, for the unknown vampire is secretly riding Selim's dreams during the day and basing her script on his very life.<br />The Hunt is quite an impressive novel, one which turns several vampire myths on their heads and brings to life a new and fascinating type kind of vampire, one never really seen before in the literature.  As always seems to happen, the struggles of the vampire, particularly an Enforcer such as Selim who must control as well as defend the nests living and operating under his jurisdiction, speaks to very human qualities that all readers can relate to: doing what is right; putting the interests of the many over the personal interests of the one; staying within the limits of the law at all times, when passion, justice, or a thirst for revenge impels you to act rashly and aggressively; figuring out how to love the person you are with and to overcome all manner of romantic obstacles in the process, etc.  The vampire has always served as a mirror of the human soul, and it seems clear to me that Susan Sizemore understands that fact very well.ir undead masters until such time as they become vampires themselves.  Cut a Companion loose too early or keep them close for too long out of your own love and need, and you risk creating a strigoi, a loner vampire who usually turns out pretty messed up in the head.  <br />Selim has all of these problems weighing on him, distracting him.  His complex relationship with Siri is gravely threatened by Siri's disapproval of Selim's recent behavior and orders as an Enforcer - she finds the killing of innocents horrifying.  In a larger sense, though, it is a lack of communication and sharing that threatens to irreparably harm this relationship  Despite all of these concerns and worries, though, Selim is not even aware of his biggest problem of all.  Somewhere out there, an ancient vampire is scripting a movie called If Truth Be Told, a film which will tell the true story of vampires - in fact, it will tell Selim's own story, for the unknown vampire is secretly riding Selim's dreams during the day and basing her script on his very life.<br />The Hunt is quite an impressive novel, one which turns several vampire myths on their heads and brings to life a new and fascinating type kind of vampire, one never really seen before in the literature.  As always seems to happen, the struggles of the vampire, particularly an Enforcer such as Selim who must control as well as defend the nests living and operating under his jurisdiction, speaks to very human qualities that all readers can relate to: doing what is right; putting the interests of the many over the personal interests of the one; staying within the limits of the law at all times, when passion, justice, or a thirst for revenge impels you to act rashly and aggressively; figuring out how to love the person you are with and to overcome all manner of romantic obstacles in the process, etc.  The vampire has always served as a mirror of the human soul, and it seems clear to me that Susan Sizemore understands that fact very well.	2004-04-10
720866:US	53016962	R3BS0ZWW968W82	044100735X	751205239	By Force of Arms (Legion)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Strong followup to the slightly disappointing By Blood Alone	By Force of Arms, in my opinion, brings a return of vitality to the Legion of the Damned series - a series, I might add, that is not officially identified as a series.  I think that is an important point to keep in mind, for this fourth novel (following Legion of the Damned, The Final Battle, and By Blood Alone) does continue a shift in focus from the original concept of &quot;dead&quot; men and women being resuscitated in the form of bimetallic cyborgs to a more political, diplomatic, yet still military foundation.  I think this novel is almost as good as Legion of the Damned, but I'm not sure the two should even be compared.  That being said, there are a few minor issues that keep me from giving the book five stars, but Dietz provides some masterful futuristic warfare in this exciting exploration of the future of the Confederacy of Sentient Beings.<br />For the first time in the &quot;series,&quot; the action follows quickly on the heels of the previous novel (By Blood Alone), and William Booley III rather than a next generation Booley retains his position of leadership in the new crisis facing the Confederacy.  In the last novel, a new race of aliens, the Thraki, entered Confederate space, and thanks to a constant state of duplicity and posturing in the Confederate ranks, took up residence on a planet under the protection of the Clone Hegemony.  The Hegemony originally hoped to use the Thraki, with its immense fleet, as an ace in the hole protecting their flank as they conspired to topple the Earth government and gain power for the secret interplanetary cabal they had secretly joined.  The Thraki, in turn, hoped to use the Hegemony and, indeed, the whole Confederacy, as a massive shield against their pursuing enemies, the Sheen.<br />The mutiny now put down and the balance of power restored in the Confederacy, the league of alien planets finds itself between a rock and a hard place, as both the Thraki and the technological Sheen boast military resources they cannot match on their own.  Desperate times call for desperate measures, and former President Sergei Chien-Chu has a plan many view as reckless and more than desperate.  The Hudathans, who killed untold numbers of beings among Confederacy planets, have been &quot;imprisoned&quot; on their own home world ever since the end of the second Hudathan war, yet their military assets and significant population of renowned warriors could serve to aid the Confederacy in its current crisis.  All of this eventually leads to an almost unrecognizable military force led by now-General Bill Booley III and made up of disparate, oftentimes antagonistic soldiers working together for the first time.<br />The Thraki - Sheen side of the story has its weaknesses and, at times, seems downright silly, and the eventual conclusion of the novel does leave something to be desired, but the bulk of the story is fresh and exciting, and the descriptions of the new Confederate military in action make for some of the most exhilarating (and sometimes quite humorous) accounts of military science fiction I have read.  Some clumsy romance once again takes a little something away from the reading experience, but Dietz is an author who knows how to tell an exciting futuristic story.nnot match on their own.  Desperate times call for desperate measures, and former President Sergei Chien-Chu has a plan many view as reckless and more than desperate.  The Hudathans, who killed untold numbers of beings among Confederacy planets, have been &quot;imprisoned&quot; on their own home world ever since the end of the second Hudathan war, yet their military assets and significant population of renowned warriors could serve to aid the Confederacy in its current crisis.  All of this eventually leads to an almost unrecognizable military force led by now-General Bill Booley III and made up of disparate, oftentimes antagonistic soldiers working together for the first time.<br />The Thraki - Sheen side of the story has its weaknesses and, at times, seems downright silly, and the eventual conclusion of the novel does leave something to be desired, but the bulk of the story is fresh and exciting, and the descriptions of the new Confederate military in action make for some of the most exhilarating (and sometimes quite humorous) accounts of military science fiction I have read.  Some clumsy romance once again takes a little something away from the reading experience, but Dietz is an author who knows how to tell an exciting futuristic story.	2004-04-03
720881:US	53016962	R19O7UV6DGSXLF	0441006310	157352472	By Blood Alone (Legion)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Mutiny in the Legion ranks gives peace a bad name	Another generation, another galactic crisis.  By Blood Alone follows in the chronological footsteps of William C. Dietz's Legion of the Damned and The Final Battle, each of which is focused (to a lessening degree) on a futuristic Legion and its army of once-human cyborgs.  The action here takes place a generation after the end of the second war against the Hudathans, an alien enemy who seeks to destroy all life it comes into contact with.  As is so often the case, an extended period of peace does more harm than good.  On Earth, military cutbacks have dumped many Legionnaires out onto the streets, inspiring dissent and dissatisfaction among the ancestors of the great defenders of Earth and the Confederacy of Sentient Beings as a whole.  This sets the stage for a mutiny that gives birth to a new and quite rotten form of imperialism on earth.  Worst of all, the conflict pits legionnaire against legionnaire.  Bill Booley III, whose grandfather and father played pivotal roles in defeating the Hudathan menace, finds himself smack dab in the middle of a mess.  For starters, his honorable refusal to fudge the facts in a military trial of a prominent governor's son lands him a new assignment at the worst and most undisciplined Legion post in the galaxy: Djibouti in Africa.  When the mutiny takes place and all legionnaires must take sides, Booley must organize his much-berated men and women (and cyborgs) into a respectable fighting force capable of at least defending their position from inevitable attack.<br />The novel is not without several strengths.  The author's deft use of the conquered Hudathans in an unexpected manner definitely scores points in my book.  His utilization of \\"geekheads\\" and hackers to get the word out on the true realities of earth's new government also plays well in the context of the story.  However, while By Blood Alone actually ended up being a better novel than I expected early on, it is plagued with several problems.  The characterization is somewhat weak over all, as these characters never come vividly to life; a number of actions are frankly hard to buy into; and too much happens outside the scope of the pages themselves.  The actions of earth's new rulers border on the ludicrous, the reluctance of the Confederacy of Sentient Beings to react in any way to the dire events taking place on the planet of its most erstwhile defenders seems contrived, and - perhaps most of all - the elaborate plot involving several planetary leaders is not easy to embrace or give credence to.  Several turning points in the drama come about outside the scope of the pages, and that is truly bothersome.  You spend a number of chapters wondering how the author is going to deal with a certain issue, and then you are told the issue has been dealt with and the story quickly moves along to something else.<br />Then there are the characters; several are strong and heroic, but few stand out.  My biggest complaint concerns the women of this futuristic universe.  All of Dietz's prominent female characters (and this furthers a trend noted in previous books), no matter how important militarily, politically, or scientifically, seem to be part sex objects and part sexual predators.  The entrance of any formidable female into a scene is constantly muddied with descriptions of men's physical reaction to what they are seeing and, as often as not, the female's thoughts on possible relations with the men she meets.  There is little romance in the love that sometimes develops between a man and a woman, but Dietz always takes it upon himself to describe a couple of naughty excursions by two relative strangers (usually of mixed ancestry and heritage).  Such interludes seem to serve no purpose other than to \\"sex up\\" a military science fiction plot quite capable of standing on its own too feet.  As each Legion novel comes and goes, a growing sense of character shallowness takes more and more away from the reading experience.<br />Readers should note that, unlike Legion of the Damned and The Final Battle, the conclusion of this particular novel is rather open-ended, setting the stage for the events chronicled in the next book in the series (By Force of Arms).  The introduction of two new civilizations, the Thraki and the Sheen, doesn't fit in well with the story of the mutiny on Earth, but it sets the stage for what is to come later.  By Blood Alone is a stimulating read filled with enough action to keep one's attention throughout, but it leaves too much unexplained and thereby fails to impress itself upon the reader's mind.  What is categorized as a battle for Earth seems, in the end, more like a squabble.  In my opinion, this book represents a slightly disappointing effort by an author capable of taking the genre to vast new heights.hat, unlike Legion of the Damned and The Final Battle, the conclusion of this particular novel is rather open-ended, setting the stage for the events chronicled in the next book in the series (By Force of Arms).  The introduction of two new civilizations, the Thraki and the Sheen, doesn't fit in well with the story of the mutiny on Earth, but it sets the stage for what is to come later.  By Blood Alone is a stimulating read filled with enough action to keep one's attention throughout, but it leaves too much unexplained and thereby fails to impress itself upon the reader's mind.  What is categorized as a battle for Earth seems, in the end, more like a squabble.  In my opinion, this book represents a slightly disappointing effort by an author capable of taking the genre to vast new heights.	2004-04-03
721012:US	53016962	RDVTP7RF6RYMY	044100217X	179147529	The Final Battle (Legion)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	The Hudathans strike back - with cyborgs of their own	Thirty years ago, as recorded in William C. Dietz's earlier novel Legion of the Damned, the Human Empire managed, thanks to the remarkable legionnaires and in particular the cyborgs in its ranks, to overthrow a corrupt and ineffective imperial government and defeat the powerful space fleet of the aggressive Hudathans.  Admiral Poseen-Ka and thousands of his defeated soldiers were imprisoned on Worber's World, and mega-merchant turned hero Sergi Chien-Chu, the new leader of the victorious empire (now organized as the Confederacy of the Sentient) did not pursue a murderous assault on the Hugathan home world.  This was a mistake.  The Hugathans see any intelligent life form as a threat to their survival, a threat that must be eliminated.  Their bitter defeat only strengthened their resolve, and they used what they had learned in the first war to prepare for the new offensive against the Confederacy.  A major part of the new game plan involved the implementation of their own cyborg army, and the best and brightest of the Hudathan soldiers were given the honor of being killed and resuscitated in the metallic form of the Regiment of the Living Dead.<br />The Final Battle is a great read, but it does have its weaknesses.  It takes a while to get into the novel, as we are reintroduced to a few major characters from the earlier book, men and women who are to some degree shadows of their old selves, and newly introduced to new heroes such as the half-human, half-Naa son of the famous William Booly.  The young Booly eventually matures into an interesting character, but his role seems to fade as the ultimate conflict approaches; indeed, many important characters and plot points seem to fall away as the end approaches.  Dietz is at his best in describing the intense action of the wars and skirmishes that take place, and the remarkable prison break that puts the Hudathans back into the game is a great example of this.  I continue to have a little trouble accepting Poseen-Ka's eminence in the Hudathan war plans, though; he is a slow and methodical leader who goes against the aggressive nature of his race as a whole, a man who basically lost the first war single-handedly, and yet he regains immense power in the Hudathan military.<br />My biggest problem with this book concerns the position of the Clone Worlds.  Their position inside the Confederacy is viewed as crucial, and much is made of the split between the world's three rulers in this regard, but - unless I just missed something - the Clones aren't even a factor in the pivotal events.  All you get out of this particular storyline is an oversexed relationship between a clone and an aging human warrior.  There is, in fact, a good deal of unnecessary sex in this book, sex that serves no real purpose whatsoever.  When you have two important leaders continually making goo-goo eyes at each other when they are supposed to be laying the groundwork for the mutual survival of their worlds, that - to me - is a problem.<br />The second half of the novel does come across as a little rushed, and I'm still wondering where a few seemingly important sub-plots wandered off to, but The Final Battle still stands as an oftentimes gripping military science fiction adventure.  Those who enjoyed Legion of the Damned should enjoy this second Legion novel, but the first novel is clearly the better of the two.nence in the Hudathan war plans, though; he is a slow and methodical leader who goes against the aggressive nature of his race as a whole, a man who basically lost the first war single-handedly, and yet he regains immense power in the Hudathan military.  <br />My biggest problem with this book concerns the position of the Clone Worlds.  Their position inside the Confederacy is viewed as crucial, and much is made of the split between the world's three rulers in this regard, but - unless I just missed something - the Clones aren't even a factor in the pivotal events.  All you get out of this particular storyline is an oversexed relationship between a clone and an aging human warrior.  There is, in fact, a good deal of unnecessary sex in this book, sex that serves no real purpose whatsoever.  When you have two important leaders continually making goo-goo eyes at each other when they are supposed to be laying the groundwork for the mutual survival of their worlds, that - to me - is a problem.<br />The second half of the novel does come across as a little rushed, and I'm still wondering where a few seemingly important sub-plots wandered off to, but The Final Battle still stands as an oftentimes gripping military science fiction adventure.  Those who enjoyed Legion of the Damned should enjoy this second Legion novel, but the first novel is clearly the better of the two.	2004-04-03
724161:US	53016962	R1FE6QY2ZA4MH3	0446610577	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #1	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The first book in an incredibly exciting epic sci fi series	Kevin J. Anderson's Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 1 requires a certain level of commitment from the reader, but one's patience and focus is well rewarded by a thrilling, almost intoxicating reading experience.  The Saga of Seven Suns is a true space epic in every sense of the word, encompassing several alien races, all manner of strikingly different planets, and a huge number of important characters.  Just this first book alone is rather lengthy, and the opening two hundred pages can be a bit of a test.  While each chapter is relatively short, Anderson constantly switches the point of view from one character to another.  I initially had a hard time remembering who certain characters were and how they fit into the overall picture, etc.  I imagine that some readers might be tempted to lay this book aside during this crucial and lengthy introductory phase, but those who do so will miss out on an incredibly gripping story that represents all of the best things about science fiction.  To his credit, Anderson does include an appendix featuring a chronology of events and pertinent rulers as well as a glossary of important terms and people.<br />About a third of the way through Hidden Empire, everything started to click for me; all of these very different characters who had remained elusive in my imagination began to really emerge in my consciousness.  My doubts now fully allayed, I found myself completely fascinated and personally involved as dire events began to play out before my very eyes.  On more than one occasion, I uttered an audible &quot;Oh no&quot; when a sudden plot twist hit me like a linebacker blindsiding an unprotected quarterback.<br />Any plot summary I write cannot possibly do justice to this epic, but I will try to state a few overarching features of the novel.  In the early twenty-third century, Earth began colonizing its corner of the galaxy, and one such colonization ship was eventually discovered by the Ildiran Empire, the only other known major civilization in the Spiral Arm of the galaxy.  Ildiran is eternally lit by seven suns, and this ancient civilization's history is recorded in the massive Book of Seven Suns, a continuously growing saga that the most fervent student could never possibly read in the space of one lifetime.  Earth and her colonies form the Terran Hanseatic League, and they seek to expand while their mysterious Ildiran allies care more about the past than the future.  Ildiran is led by a Mage-Imperator who, through the mysterious force of thism, can see inside the minds of all his people; the Hansa League is represented by a king, but true power lies in the shadows behind the throne.  A few disparate groups do seek to maintain their independence.  The Roamers live a nomadic life, thriving economically by supplying the precious stardrive fuel the two major civilizations require for space travel.  Then there are the Therons; theirs is a civilization devoted to the care of the vast and semi-sentient worldforest, the ultimate organic collective of universal knowledge.  The green priests of Theroc take on a crucial role in this story, as they can communicate instantly across vast distances of space through the worldtrees they raise and tend to on other planets.<br />The most mysterious people of all are the extinct Klikiss race.  Almost nothing is known of this long-gone alien superpower, but the discovery of some of their technology basically sets the events of this story in motion.  Using a Klikiss Torch, the Hansa League turns a gas giant planet into a star, thereby making distant moons of the new sun capable of sustaining human colonies.  Unfortunately, an unknown race of mysterious and mind-bogglingly deadly aliens live in the pressurized depths of gas giants and do not take kindly to having one of their worlds destroyed.  They don't ask questions; they just start sending up ships to destroy anything and everything around their home planets.  Suddenly, the galaxy is at war, andHidden Empire becomes much too exciting to even dream of putting down.  Neither the Hansa League nor the Ildiran Empire is exactly what it seems, and this makes for some startling revelations as the book winds toward its conclusion.  With the action definitely heated up, all manner of familiar characters caught up in events they can barely come to terms with, and the dark and mysterious game plans of different characters offering one dire surprise after another, this novel that seemed so long in the early chapters suddenly becomes tantalizingly short.<br />Casual science fiction fans may not have the patience to stick with this panoramic epic long enough to get hooked, but those who love space epics of the grandest style will find much to jump up and down about in this first entry in the Book of Seven Suns series.and Hidden Empire becomes much too exciting to even dream of putting down.  Neither the Hansa League nor the Ildiran Empire is exactly what it seems, and this makes for some startling revelations as the book winds toward its conclusion.  With the action definitely heated up, all manner of familiar characters caught up in events they can barely come to terms with, and the dark and mysterious game plans of different characters offering one dire surprise after another, this novel that seemed so long in the early chapters suddenly becomes tantalizingly short.  <br />Casual science fiction fans may not have the patience to stick with this panoramic epic long enough to get hooked, but those who love space epics of the grandest style will find much to jump up and down about in this first entry in the Book of Seven Suns series.	2004-03-31
725046:US	53016962	R1A92UL73XSDW9	8589992012	605175220	Rio for Partiers: The visual travel guide to Rio de Janeiro, 6th edition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	This book and 7 days are all you need to live it up in Rio	I am not what you would call a party animal; even if I could be, I've never really known how.  If and when I make it down to Rio, though, look out.  With Rio For Partiers safely in hand, I will be both ready and prepared to live it up.  Rio For Partiers is not your parents' travel guide; if you thought all travel guides are boring (hey, I thought so too), you haven't checked out this amazing guide book, written for young people by young people.  Cristiano Nogueria and his team offer you the equivalent of a personal tour by one of Rio's own, telling you everything you need to know in order to safely enjoy your time in the city and leave happy knowing that you saw the real Rio and had the experience of a lifetime.<br />Rio For Partiers is filled with gorgeous color pictures, maps, directions, suggestions, and personal recommendations for the visiting tourist.  Not only will you find out where to go, you'll learn when to get there and how to look and act once you arrive.  The book is divided into a number of very useful sections.  It starts with the basics: knowing what you need to bring with you, choosing the area of the city that fits your needs the best (in terms of nearby activities as well as safety), the \\"9 Rio Commandments,\\" learning how to get from place to place, etc.  Some parts of Rio can reportedly be on the dangerous side, so this basic information is essential in terms of formulating the perfect plan.<br />Next, the book covers the types of day-to-day tours available to the discerning traveler, accompanied by a suggested itinerary for a day spent in each locale.  Among the sites I would especially want to see is the gigantic statue of Jesus standing high above the city.  The book then takes you through all of the sports and athletic options available in Rio, and these including an amazing range of choices; you'll learn who offers the best scuba classes, where the best beaches for windsurfing are, etc. (and in a number of cases you get details all the way down to the \\"ask for Joe\\" variety).  Even though you came to party, the book throws in some cultural recommendations, as well.<br />You'll have to eat, of course, and this book covers a wide gamut of Brazilian foods and recommended restaurants.  You'll learn which foods to avoid, which ones you absolutely must try, and how much they cost; you'll even know which restaurants stand out among the rest for specific cuisine, ambience, and overall appeal.  That of course leads you right into the night life of this happening town.  The author describes all the different types of Brazilian music and tells you where you can find them - in many cases, you need to be at a certain place on a certain night at a certain time, and this book puts all of that pertinent information right at your fingertips.  Live music, clubbing, street parties, or just plain chilling: it's all right here.  The book even gives you a breakdown of the average age of the typical crowd and rates each one on approachability (thereby ensuring that swinging singles don't accidentally wind up in a crowd of couples).  My favorite section of the book discusses the proper way of dealing with local men and women - here's some advice that can save you from embarrassment.<br />Along with all of this truly helpful information, you can also save a little money on your stay and activities, as a number of different merchants have teamed up with the folks behind Rio for Partiers to offer rebates and discounts to those carrying the vouchers this book contains.  You would definitely want to carry this book with you - the front flap alone contains a helpful overview of choices, helpful words and numbers, as well as some gestures (both good and bad) you may feel compelled to employ on your own behalf at some point.<br />7 days, enough money to get there and back, and this book are all you need to have a week you won't forget in one of the world's most popular cities.  While all the tourists around you still look lost as they begin their journeys home, you'll be ready to live this experience to the fullest degree possible within mere hours of your arrival.  When you get home and friends start to ask you, \\"Did you do -?, you can interrupt them and say, \\"You'd better believe it.  I didn't miss a thing, and I can't wait to go back.\\"as they begin their journeys home, you'll be ready to live this experience to the fullest degree possible within mere hours of your arrival.  When you get home and friends start to ask you, \\"Did you do -?, you can interrupt them and say, \\"You'd better believe it.  I didn't miss a thing, and I can't wait to go back.\\"	2004-03-31
731906:US	53016962	R3NJSNS6R3F3HI	0756401208	257718168	Craven Moon	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Shift of focus mid-way goes too far too fast	Craven Moon advances the storyline begun in Billie Sue Mosiman's previous vampire novels, Red Moon Rising and Malachi's Moon, each of which stands as a fascinating - albeit sometimes illogical - new interpretation of vampirism.  In the future world of Mosiman's creation, vampirism is caused by a mutated form of the blood disease porphyria; one becomes vampire as a natural result of heredity rather some supernatural cause (with exceptions, of course).  When the change comes over the afflicted individual, that person literally dies while his/her soul travels to a mysterious realm lighted by a huge red moon; here, the soul must choose the type of vampire it will become: Predator, Natural, or Craven.  Predators resemble stereotypical vampires; they feed on the living and are generally quite aggressive.  Naturals choose to live as humans, hiding their affliction from the outside world and feeding only on bags of blood supplied by a Predator network.  Cravens are doomed to a life of sickness and weakness; still bearing outward evidence of the porphyria that afflicts them, they depend wholly on the support of other vampires and spend their years in solitude and depression.  Mosiman's vampires can fall in love, and on rare occasions one chooses to marry and mate with a human; such unions give rise to the rarest creatures of all - dhampirs.  A dhampir has the super-human strength and many of the abilities of a vampire but will age and die the same as any mortal.<br />Malachi, the protagonist of the novel, is an unusually powerful dhampir, and many vampires fear that he is the dhampir referred to in ancient prophecy as a slayer of Predators.  Malachi has faced and overcome some incredible tragedies in his past, but as Craven Moon opens he has put the past behind him and found happiness in the arms of his wife Danielle and his young son Eli.  Unfortunately, his longtime vampire antagonist Charles Upton still lives and begins forming a new army of Predators with which to wage war against Malachi, the Cravens, and the Naturals.  Upton finds himself a most unusual human assistant named Jacques, a man whose empty soul knows no fear.  As the novel progresses, the focus moves away from Upton and directly to Jacques as the true antagonist.  A shift in focus from the same old Upton storyline of the first two novels was needed at this point, but I'm not sure Mosiman truly succeeds in her transformation of the story from one of personal vendetta to potentially religious warfare.  It turns out that Jacques might just be the Antichrist.  Whatever he is, Malachi swears vengeance when this new enemy destroys his family; he is so intent on finding and killing Jacques that he chooses to become a full-blooded, Predator vampire.  The ultimate conclusion is a bit anti-climactic, as the predicted open warfare among vampirekind never really comes to fruition.<br />I think Craven Moon is a much weaker novel than its predecessors Red Moon Rising and Malachi's Moon.  The Armageddon plot element really pushes the story farther than it is equipped to travel, as Mosiman doesn't really frame the story in a proper context for such a radical shift.  Mosiman also damages the integrity of the story by taking what I consider a radical shortcut near the end, basically denying this reader the very thing he was anticipating.  I understand the author's desire to move beyond the same old storyline explored in the two previous novels, but I think Mosiman just tried to go too far too fast with this novel.  Still, Craven Moon is a very enjoyable read offering a few fresh twists to the traditional vampire myth, and I should note that readers need not have read Red Moon Rising or Malachi's Moon in order to understand and follow the storyline in this particular novel.ar against Malachi, the Cravens, and the Naturals.  Upton finds himself a most unusual human assistant named Jacques, a man whose empty soul knows no fear.  As the novel progresses, the focus moves away from Upton and directly to Jacques as the true antagonist.  A shift in focus from the same old Upton storyline of the first two novels was needed at this point, but I'm not sure Mosiman truly succeeds in her transformation of the story from one of personal vendetta to potentially religious warfare.  It turns out that Jacques might just be the Antichrist.  Whatever he is, Malachi swears vengeance when this new enemy destroys his family; he is so intent on finding and killing Jacques that he chooses to become a full-blooded, Predator vampire.  The ultimate conclusion is a bit anti-climactic, as the predicted open warfare among vampirekind never really comes to fruition.  <br />I think Craven Moon is a much weaker novel than its predecessors Red Moon Rising and Malachi's Moon.  The Armageddon plot element really pushes the story farther than it is equipped to travel, as Mosiman doesn't really frame the story in a proper context for such a radical shift.  Mosiman also damages the integrity of the story by taking what I consider a radical shortcut near the end, basically denying this reader the very thing he was anticipating.  I understand the author's desire to move beyond the same old storyline explored in the two previous novels, but I think Mosiman just tried to go too far too fast with this novel.  Still, Craven Moon is a very enjoyable read offering a few fresh twists to the traditional vampire myth, and I should note that readers need not have read Red Moon Rising or Malachi's Moon in order to understand and follow the storyline in this particular novel.	2004-03-26
734354:US	53016962	R26FP2Z8AVX2YI	0441480403	127701124	Legion of the Damned	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	The few.  The proud.  The dead.  The cyborg legionnaires.	I'm quite pleased that I finally got around to sampling the wares of William C. Dietz, a writer with an impressive number of science fiction novels under his belt already.  Legion of the Damned is a well-paced, absorbing novel of futuristic military science fiction based on a premise I find fascinating.  A couple of centuries into the future, murderers and their ilk are still being executed, but they are given a second chance - of sorts - to evade the permanent clutches of the Grim Reaper.  Those who choose the option of resuscitation are, if approved, reborn in the form of cyborgs - basically, these are gigantic robots of death consisting of a human head inside an artificial and quite deadly body.  (For the record, other humans, such as the terminally ill, also have the chance to opt in to the cyborg program.)  The cyborgs serve under the command of the Legionnaires, a military force founded on the twentieth-century French Foreign Legion.  While they serve in the military of imperial Earth, the Legion is their country (just as their motto says).  By the time of the events described herein, the Legion has finally been granted a home of their own, exercising a form of self-autonomy on Algeron, near the outer rim of the Empire's control.  Of course, there are many human Legionnaires, but the cyborgs pack most of the punch.  Training is so rigorous that many fall along the way, and some even hope for a second death in order to finally fall into oblivion.<br />There is great trouble in the Empire.  The Hudathans, a militaristic alien race, have begun decimating imperial planets on the outer rim and are obviously working their way toward Earth itself.  The Admiral of the Imperial Navy is an opportunistic and power-hungry individual who supports a retreat of the Imperial Navy, ostensibly to prepare an overwhelming attack against the Hudathans when they move farther into the empire's region of space; in actuality, her desires are fuelled largely by a determination to make a hero out of herself and to finally rob the Legion of its might and power.  Many on the home world (especially those with an economic interest in the planets that stand to be abandoned) argue that Earth's forces should engage the enemy now, while they are still in the outer rim.  To the misfortune of everyone concerned, the Emperor is basically insane - as mad as Nero and possibly even more decadent.  At least Nero didn't have seven advisors hard-coded into this brain as a child and left to fight amongst themselves inside his mind.<br />Obviously, a major space battle between Earth's Imperial Navy and the Hudathan fleet is to be expected as this novel wends its way to a conclusion.  However, a war between the Imperial Navy and the Legionnaires on Algeron, a localized imperial civil war, looms even closer on the horizon, for the Legion is quite unwilling to give up its home base and allow its forces to be dispersed.  Basically, a lot of action is to be found in these pages, and Dietz excels at describing the militaristic aspects of his plot.  There are a number of sub-stories incorporated into this fictional fabric involving the formation of a cabal to oppose the Emperor on Earth, an inter-species love story (that never completely clicks, in my opinion), legalistic power-plays among the alien Hudathans themselves in preparation for cosmic war, and a coming together of two cyborgs who &quot;met&quot; in a most unusual fashion in their prior human lives.  The ultimate conclusion seems to come a little too quickly and easily, but all in all this is a thoroughly enjoyable novel that all fans of military science fiction should quite enjoy reading.a hero out of herself and to finally rob the Legion of its might and power.  Many on the home world (especially those with an economic interest in the planets that stand to be abandoned) argue that Earth's forces should engage the enemy now, while they are still in the outer rim.  To the misfortune of everyone concerned, the Emperor is basically insane - as mad as Nero and possibly even more decadent.  At least Nero didn't have seven advisors hard-coded into this brain as a child and left to fight amongst themselves inside his mind.  <br />Obviously, a major space battle between Earth's Imperial Navy and the Hudathan fleet is to be expected as this novel wends its way to a conclusion.  However, a war between the Imperial Navy and the Legionnaires on Algeron, a localized imperial civil war, looms even closer on the horizon, for the Legion is quite unwilling to give up its home base and allow its forces to be dispersed.  Basically, a lot of action is to be found in these pages, and Dietz excels at describing the militaristic aspects of his plot.  There are a number of sub-stories incorporated into this fictional fabric involving the formation of a cabal to oppose the Emperor on Earth, an inter-species love story (that never completely clicks, in my opinion), legalistic power-plays among the alien Hudathans themselves in preparation for cosmic war, and a coming together of two cyborgs who &quot;met&quot; in a most unusual fashion in their prior human lives.  The ultimate conclusion seems to come a little too quickly and easily, but all in all this is a thoroughly enjoyable novel that all fans of military science fiction should quite enjoy reading.	2004-03-24
741611:US	53016962	R39BP1XJP3MEM6	0061054151	511918093	The X-Files: Whirlwind	Books	3	2	2	N	N	This Whirlwind never really gets off the ground	Whirlwind is the second TV tie-in novel based on The X-Files.  One can't help but compare this to the first novel, Goblins, as both books were written by Charles Grant.  While Whirlwind seems more readable than Goblins, in the end Grant once again comes up a little short.  His characterizations of Mulder and Scully saw improvement in this novel, but there were still bits of dialogue here and there that just didn't sound like something the agents would say.  A bigger problem is found in the characterization of all the other characters, some of whose actions really aren't adequately explained in the context of the novel.  The explanation behind the crimes presented here also falls short of believability.<br />The heart of this particular X-File involves a most unusual serial killer (indeed, I would not use the term serial killer in this context - but the back cover of the book uses it).  It all started with a string of cattle mutilations, a subject even Mulder isn't very interested in.  Then a local sheriff of a small New Mexico town asks for FBI help when a honeymooning man and wife are killed in the same horrible fashion, and Mulder and Scully are initially assisted on the case by an agent from the regional FBI office.  The manner of death in these cases is enough to make Scully uneasy looking at the remains, as basically the victim's skin is shredded and removed from the body - possibly before death, as it happens so quickly.  I should mention the fact that it is very hot in the New Mexico desert - the author certainly mentions that fact a lot.  Anyway, Mulder and Scully begin the investigation, ask questions that most folks don't seem to want to answer completely, and find themselves wondering what if anything the local and extremely private Konochine Indians might have to do with the unexplained murders.<br />Whirlwind just didn't manage to satisfy me.  The reality behind the mystery is rather fanciful, yet it also manages to come across as too pat of an answer.  A more penetrating examination of the important characters - those on both sides of the law - would have helped in this regard, I feel.  One character is seemingly dropped like a hot potato midway through the book, and another essential character's erratic behavior is explained away a little too easily for me.  I love the X-Files, but, in my opinion, Whirlwind is really just an average novel..  A more penetrating examination of the important characters - those on both sides of the law - would have helped in this regard, I feel.  One character is seemingly dropped like a hot potato midway through the book, and another essential character's erratic behavior is explained away a little too easily for me.  I love the X-Files, but, in my opinion, Whirlwind is really just an average novel.	2004-03-18
744959:US	53016962	RCHOAPEERCWKX	0061054143	511918093	Goblins (The X-Files, Bk. 1)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The first novel based on The X-Files	Published in 1994, Goblins was the very first novel based on The X-Files television series, which at that time was relatively new, original, and growing in popularity.  The action, in this case, takes place not long after the X-Files had been shut down and then reopened by the FBI (which basically puts it somewhere in the second season time period).  This is a book that has its good points and its bad points.  It is not a bad story in and of itself, but it doesn't fully capture the X-Files spirit; its primary weakness is the addition of two unknown agents working beside Mulder and Scully on the case at hand: Hank Webber, a gung-ho agent of the annoying type, and Licia Andrews, a cold and disagreeable person who certainly doesn't seem to be made of FBI material.  Webber's association with Mulder's new supervisor Arlen Douglas (who is not Mulder's biggest fan) is used to cast a suspicious backdrop to the story, but this little subplot doesn't go very far.<br />The case that forms the framework of this novel consists of a series of brutal murders by an &quot;invisible man&quot; of sorts - witnesses, none of which are completely trustworthy, report seeing a hand and blade come out of nowhere and then disappear once the deed is done.  An old reporter friend asks Mulder to investigate the first murder because the victim was his cousin's boyfriend, but Mulder has no real interest in the matter until Douglas sends him to New Jersey (alongside Scully, Webber, and Andrews) to investigate that very case; they soon meet with unexpected danger.  There is basically a lot of running around talking to the locals, working with the local sheriff, and sniffing out the truth of a mysterious Department of Defense project associated with a nearby military base.  Mulder comes up with his wild theory, Scully argues against it, etc. - the same drill you typically saw on the television series.  Grant's characterization of Mulder and Scully is actually pretty commendable, but the other two agents are simply annoying, unrealistic, and a source of constant frustration for both Mulder and myself.  Grant does keep the level of suspense at a nice level throughout the novel, largely by keeping the reader in the dark when it comes to the identity of the &quot;goblin,&quot; and I think this makes the story much more entertaining than it would be otherwise.  Looking back on the novel as a whole, the plot does hold together, but there are definitely some frayed ends and other imperfections evident in the craftsmanship.  Goblins isn't likely to win The X-Files any new fans, but it makes for a fairly interesting diversion for those of us already devoted to the show and its characters.ents are simply annoying, unrealistic, and a source of constant frustration for both Mulder and myself.  Grant does keep the level of suspense at a nice level throughout the novel, largely by keeping the reader in the dark when it comes to the identity of the &quot;goblin,&quot; and I think this makes the story much more entertaining than it would be otherwise.  Looking back on the novel as a whole, the plot does hold together, but there are definitely some frayed ends and other imperfections evident in the craftsmanship.  Goblins isn't likely to win The X-Files any new fans, but it makes for a fairly interesting diversion for those of us already devoted to the show and its characters.	2004-03-15
746265:US	53016962	RCT4Y3CU2PR42	0517331381	325363279	Paris in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Verne's &quot;lost&quot; novel offers a dystopian look at the future	This is a most singular work of science fiction indeed.  Like many of the futuristic technological marvels Jules Verne described, this novel lay in obscurity, waiting for someone to come along and discover it.  That someone was Verne's great-grandson, who in 1989 found the manuscript in an old safe that was thought to be empty.  While I bought this book as soon as it was published, I have only now compelled myself to read it.  I could not help but wonder if Verne would want this novel published now in its current form, especially given the fact it was one of his earliest writings, so I held off in respect to the founding father of science fiction.  Having now read the novel, I must say it differs significantly from the other Verne novels I have read, expressing a maudlin and tragically pessimistic vision for the future of modern society.  At the same time, its defense of the classics, arts and literature, and individual freedom is quite moving.<br />In one of the richest ironies in the history of literature, Verne's editor rejected the manuscript of Paris in the Twentieth Century because, in his own words, &quot;No one today will believe your prophecy.&quot;  As with so many of Verne's visionary ideas, however, fiction has now become fact.  Among the wild ideas included in these pages are fax machines, horse-less carriages, a subway system, computers, calculators, and other modern luxuries we take for granted now.  A much longer list could be produced, but I would contend that too much of the reaction to this &quot;lost&quot; novel has directed itself to Verne's prophecies fulfilled.  Certainly, the basis of Verne's future society is built on technological accomplishment, but Paris in the Twentieth Century is a social commentary that rivals in its unnerving implications famous dystopian novels such as George Orwell's 1984.<br />Verne's vision of Paris in 1960 is a troubling one indeed; the wonders of technology have worked miracles on earth, yet humanity's savior has proceeded to become its curse.  It's an action-oriented society, one run with great economy and efficiency.  War has been made extinct because, once war progressed to the point that machines and not men were fighting each other, the whole thing seemed ridiculous.  Life itself has become scientific, and in the process the society has given up its own humanity.  There is no place for an idealistic dreamer such as Michel Dufrenoy in this world where the arts and literature have been completely forgotten; popular literature now consists of books such as The Lubrication of Driveshafts.  Popular music is so un-melodic that it would make even John Cage cringe.  Still, young Michel does try to become a modern man, taking a job (his first of many) in his guardian's bank.  He finds friends in a long-lost uncle, one of his co-workers, his former teacher, and the lovely grand-daughter of the latter.  Even still, his life of quiet desperation grows more and more disheartening and threatens to make him a martyr for the forgotten cause of the arts.<br />Verne's warnings over the possible dangers of the technology he is famous for espousing makes for an intriguing read.  Through Michel, Verne gives the reader a crash course on the history of French literature and thought as well as a primer of sorts on musical history.  Some critics say the characters of this novel are ephemeral, but I found them all quite compelling, especially the main character Michel.  The only real issue I have with the book is the fact that Verne basically left matters unresolved; while this is indeed effective in terms of Michel, I yearned to know the ultimate fates of the extraordinary friends he had acquired.  While there are a few comical bits in this book, Paris in the Twentieth Century is a somber, very serious book warning of the possible unintended consequences of modernization.  It shows Verne as a true visionary as well as a social critic and devoted lover of literature.  This book is so rooted inthe French ideals of Verne's time that those who, like me, are not overly familiar with the context in which Verne was writing may not appreciate and understand all of the text's nuances, but its prophetic warnings are even more timely now than they were in 1863.ted in the French ideals of Verne's time that those who, like me, are not overly familiar with the context in which Verne was writing may not appreciate and understand all of the text's nuances, but its prophetic warnings are even more timely now than they were in 1863.	2004-03-14
747559:US	53016962	R25CXYBS70CV2Y	1400049520	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Liberals' worst nightmare come true	What really bothers liberals about this book is the fact that they basically wrote it themselves.  Ann Coulter holds a mirror of truth in the face of liberalism and forces its practitioners to see themselves as they really are.  Quite understandably, liberals do not like what they see.  Any liberals who have actually read this book (and I doubt a single one of them has) obviously did not learn anything from the experience because they vociferously attack Coulter in the boisterous, hypocritical, childish manner Coulter herself is taking them to task for in these pages.  This is a book every Republican - nay, every honest American - should read; even I found it more eye-opening than I anticipated.  Knowing how pervasive the liberal bias in media is, I try to avoid the most galling of liberal demagogues, depending primarily on news sources that at least try to give the impression of impartiality.  Thus, I was not fully aware of the degree of vitriol and unabashed truth evasion taking place in major media outlets.  If Coulter seems a little bitter at times and goes a little too far in the tone of her criticisms (and I have to admit that she does upon occasion), it is perfectly understandable.  Any self-respecting American who willfully subjects himself or herself to a detailed study of such sources as the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times, major television network news broadcasts, and the like deserves a medal of valor.  Coulter supplies quote after quote after damning quote from these unabashedly liberal sources, and it is difficult not to be angry at the liberals in this country who behave in such laughably childish and hateful ways.<br />Coulter brilliantly analyses the liberal means of communication and debate in America; basically, she argues, liberals do not debate because they cannot do so.  The only core belief they have to fall back on is their assertion that conservatives are evil incarnate.  Thus, they endlessly resort to name-calling, labels (conservatives are \\"stupid\\" and \\"dumb\\"), hissy fits, and invective of all sorts.  Their only burden of proof is the endless repetition of their claims.  They invent non-existent groups such as \\"the religious right\\" and then blame them for everything they don't like (yet can never actually explain just who these groups actually are).  In between diatribes on the alleged hatefulness and divisiveness of conservatives, they attack their foes in the most hateful of fashions; if you disagree with liberals, you are dismissed as a Nazi, storm trooper, goose-stepper, woman-hater, racist, sanctimonious Christian, right-wing nut, etc.  This sort of invective is all you hear from liberals when a conservative actually offers to debate them, and the proof is right here in Slander.<br />According to liberals, the religious right are a bunch of dumb, ugly, uneducated hicks, yet these poor and stupid sheep somehow manage to enforce their will on America with huge sums of money.  The Christian Coalition is supposedly the most pervasive and dangerous lobbying influence in Washington, yet the facts show that liberal PACs put religious right lobbying amounts to shame.  For years, liberals were able to make up facts and pursue their arguments with impunity, knowing that no one in the media would try to check their accuracy and would certainly never dare to point out any errors.  The Internet and radio have changed that.  Coulter mined these new sources to great effect, pulling out quote after quote from liberals over the years that shows the hypocrisy and utter disdain they have for the American people (whom they hate for not voting Democrat in sufficient numbers).  Their hypocrisies and constant reversals are laid out for all to see in Slander.  They cannot fight back against Coulter because not only do they no longer have any ammunition, the ammunition they used to rely upon is exactly what Coulter is using to attack them in this book.  Watching liberals react to Coulter wouldbe comical if it were not so shameful and pathetic.<br />Ann Coulter's Slander is not going to help civilize the attacks one constantly sees in the realm of politics, but that is not the point here, really.  She is exposing liberal tactics for what they really are, truths that are made even more evident to Americans in the tone of liberals now pulling their hair out over having been forced to look at themselves as they really are.  Conservatives should be outraged at the material filling this book, for the material Coulter collects from such \\"prestigious\\" media outlets as the New York Times is nothing short of outrageous, offensive, and unbelievably audacious (as well as oftentimes inherently false, as recent events at the paper have made abundantly clear).  Anyone who respects the truth and serious discussion of the issues should be flabbergasted and deeply disturbed at the weight of the evidence Ann Coulter has supplied in this very important political monograph. Liberals will react to this book the way they always react to any sort of challenge, thus making Ann Coulter's point for her time and time again.ould be comical if it were not so shameful and pathetic.  <br />Ann Coulter's Slander is not going to help civilize the attacks one constantly sees in the realm of politics, but that is not the point here, really.  She is exposing liberal tactics for what they really are, truths that are made even more evident to Americans in the tone of liberals now pulling their hair out over having been forced to look at themselves as they really are.  Conservatives should be outraged at the material filling this book, for the material Coulter collects from such \\"prestigious\\" media outlets as the New York Times is nothing short of outrageous, offensive, and unbelievably audacious (as well as oftentimes inherently false, as recent events at the paper have made abundantly clear).  Anyone who respects the truth and serious discussion of the issues should be flabbergasted and deeply disturbed at the weight of the evidence Ann Coulter has supplied in this very important political monograph. Liberals will react to this book the way they always react to any sort of challenge, thus making Ann Coulter's point for her time and time again.	2004-03-13
754595:US	53016962	R1QC4VI8P82XH2	1562922211	905991033	God's Little Instruction Book for Men (God's Little Instruction Book Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Advice from both men and God on how to live a happy life	I'm not a big fan of inspirational books of quotes or sayings, so this is not a book I would have purchased on my own.  I actually received this book from my church, and it does make for a nice gift.  God's Little Instruction Book for Men is unusual in that it combines inspirational quotes with scriptural references.  Thus you get the advice of individuals and the Biblical advice of God in one neat package.  You won't find very many of the clich&eacute;d sayings you hear all the time; almost all of these were unfamiliar to me.  They do offer sage advice for men on living a happy and truly successful life of virtue, integrity, and faith.  In some cases, the personal quotation offers helpful insight into a Bible verse you may have heard many times in the past, and quite often the scriptural quote offers additional meaning to the inspirational saying accompanying it.<br />At 155 pages, this book can be read quickly, yet you can also pick it up any time you have a quiet moment or have a few minutes to kill.  Even if you pick it up and only glance at it, you may well come across a quote or reference that will catch your attention and maybe even offer you a bit of advice you may not have known you even needed at the time.  The only complaint I have of this little book is the fact that the sources of the personal quotations are not listed alongside the quotes.  There is a list at the back of the book identifying the source of most of the quotes, but these are only referenced by page number.  As for the Biblical quotes, they are taken from a number of different translations but are clearly identified.	2004-03-08
757311:US	53016962	R2CBGHY11N7JH0	0451459121	997435878	Mechwarrior: Dark Age #2: A Call to Arms (A BattleTech Novel)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A complex, action-packed Mechwarrior thriller	Whereas the first book in the Mechwarrior Dark Age series features rather sparse military engagements, this second book in the saga, Loren L. Coleman's A Call to Arms puts the metallic behemoths in the field and supplies us with one battle scene after another.  As a BattleTech newbie, I was more than ready to see somebody bring out the big guns and have a hot and heavy free-for-all.  This novel is not all about action, however, and herein lies its real strength.  The main character is a very human, likeable, and essentially normal young man whom we watch mature as a citizen, patriot, leader, and hero; by the end of the book, he is a far cry from the young man we met early on.  The most commanding presence in the book, strangely enough, is not the main character at all but a ravishing, mysterious female Mechwarrior who remains elusive in the minds of the reader throughout the entire story.  <br />Raul Ortega never wanted to be anything but a Mechwarrior; even though the Republic thrived under an extended era of peace, Raul thirsted for combat and a chance to prove himself.  His dream almost came true, but by the narrowest of margins Raul came up short in his Mechwarrior qualification tests.  Now he is a customs agent on Achernar, his dreams of leading a Mechwarrior into combat seemingly dashed.  Then the Steel Wolves arrive and bring war to Raul's planet.  Achernar's military significance in the universal scheme of things is its working Hyperpulse Generator Station.  Some 85 percent of the planets in the Republic lie in isolation following recent, coordinated, very effective attacks on the interplanetary communication network.  The Steel Wolves, genetically engineered soldiers, come to Achernar determined to gain control of the HPG station.  The planetary militia is initially unprepared and outgunned by the awesome and swift attack of Steel Wolf forces, and the dicey military situation on the planet is further complicated by the Achernar militia's questionable alliance with the Swordsworn on the planet, a group with an agenda entirely their own.  When military engagements take place, the dynamics of different groups working together and sometimes against one another makes it difficult to predict how everything will play out.  <br />Then there is Tassa Kay, a mysterious visitor to Achernar who just so happens to be a highly skilled Mechwarrior herself.  She joins forces with the militia, marching her own personal Legionnaire into one fight after another.  Tassa proves to be a most enticing and unquantifiable player in events.  Owing no allegiance to the Republic or, seemingly, to any entity besides herself, she is a hard nut to crack, and the secrets she obviously carries keep the suspense of the story alive and kicking over the course of the entire novel.  Tassa also plays a key role in the human element of the story.  Raul is fascinated by her, and his odd but continually evolving relationship with this woman he barely knows spells trouble with a capital T between Raul and his fiance.  This romantic angle of the story may help the reader forge a personal bond of sort with the characters, but in my opinion it is the only real weakness in the book.  While the complexity of Raul's relationship with Tassa makes for a compelling angle to the story, I never sensed any kind of truly significant connection between Raul and Jessica, and I oftentimes thought of Jessica as standing outside the story looking in.<br />I waited quite a while to dip my foot into the BattleTech universe, holding in my head the unqualified assumption that these books were somehow a second-rate form of science fiction.  I could not have been more wrong.  A Call to Arms features fascinating characters, thrilling military clashes, ever-building suspense and mystery, and an overall complexity I found quite impressive indeed.	2004-03-06
757342:US	53016962	R233XHSFR4I44S	0441010865	856539254	Outremer #3: A Dark Way To Glory	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Supplies crucial additional insight into the characters	A Dark Way to Glory (The Third Book of Outremer) follows Chaz Brenchley's unlikely party of heroes, each of whom we have already met yet still seek to truly understand, from the outskirts of the fortress Roq de Rancon across the dangerous deserts of the Sharai to the brink of Rhabat.  The weariness of such a harsh and dangerous journey weighs heavily on the action in this installment of the series, providing a welcome opportunity to learn more about each of the major characters and the very different motivations driving each of them.  Those who thirst for battle scenes will find only a few such moments here, but each fight described in these pages radiates an intensity not seen previously in the series.  <br />A Dark Way to Glory provides readers the time to evaluate and come to terms with the shocking truths revealed in the final pages of the previous book, Tower of the King's Daughter.  Each major character has now faced a crossroads and made his/her choice for the future.  Julianne de Rance, daughter of the King's Shadow, has chosen to wed and then steal away (reluctantly) from her husband, risking love and life to follow the instructions of a mysterious djinni.  With her is Elisande, an enigmatic young lady from Surayon, the &quot;enfolded land&quot; which the forces of Outremer seek to find and destroy; her friendship with Julianne is only one of several reasons she travels to Rhabat.  In part, she goes to thwart her hated father Rudel, the jongleur whom we now know is a statesman of Surayon - as is Redmond, the torture victim rescued from the cells beneath Roq de Rancon.  Jemel, a Sharai fighter whose blood brother fell at the hands of the knight Sieur Anton d'Escrivey, strips himself of all tribal affiliation and insists on accompanying the party for reasons of his own.  At the heart of the whole story, though, stands young Marron; he is a truly sympathetic character who has, despite the best of intentions, betrayed the holy order of the Knights Ransomers, his master knight, and now his very own people.  Circumstances beyond his control have made him the Ghost Walker, holder of the darkly mysterious, deadly force known as the Daughter.  In this book, the complex secrets of the Daughter slowly begin to reveal themselves.<br />The desert peoples of Outremer have prayed for the return of the Ghost Walker for centuries, dreaming of the day their most awesome weapon, the Daughter, would be taken up once again by the Ghost Walker and used to destroy their enemies.  No one among these people would have ever chosen Marron to be the Daughter's human vessel; the lad has seen and done things that truly haunt him, and he refuses to kill again.  Certainly, the enigmatic Shadow Dancers, untold generations of whom have prepared to serve the Ghost Walker when he returns, are certainly not well pleased by the weakness of the chosen one (whom they insist on accompanying across the desert).  I have to admit that the revelations of the previous book caused me to place some distance between myself and Marron, but his struggles to face up to the almost impossible challenges and internal struggles he must face as the Ghost Walker warmed me to him once again.  He is still really just a boy, but he carries the greatest burdens in all of Outremer within his very body and soul.  Young Elisande is fast becoming as interesting a character as Marron, though.  The first two Outremer books failed to divulge many of her secrets, but her character grows tremendously as she and her party find their way across the desert.  The depth and range of her emotions and thoughts threaten to force Julianne, a strong female character in her own right, somewhat into the background for the time being. <br />I daresay that Brenchley's bold revelations regarding Marron at the end of Tower of the King's Daughter may have rubbed some readers the wrong way.  It certainly forced me to step back and reappraise everything I had just read.  I would urge all readers to forge ahead with the series, though.  I was appalled by the dark secret that was revealed, but Marron reemerges as an extraordinarily deep, enigmatic, and sympathetic soul in the pages of A Dark Way to Glory.  Few fantasy writers can equal the power and richness of Chaz Brenchley's prose, and I am more excited than ever to see what this visionary author has in store for me in the remaining Outremer books.	2004-03-06
762576:US	53016962	RTGQ03I7NWWLI	0451459059	390957241	Ghost War (Mechwarrior: Dark Age #1)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	My first Battletech reading experience, and I'm impressed	I came into this book knowing absolutely nothing about the Mechwarrior or Battletech universe, and I naively had my doubts about the caliber of novels in this specific genre.  Maybe it's the fact that I associate Battletech with PC and console gaming, but I was afraid this was just going to be a rather simplistic novel that served little purpose beyond framing a context in which huge metallic monsters can go at each other tooth and nail.  My doubts turned out to be incredibly unfounded.  I found Ghost War to be a complex, surprising, challenging read that combined action, drama, and well-placed bits of humor in a finely crafted package.<br />I did worry that I would be at a disadvantage here, not having read any of the earlier Battletech novels, but this first entry in the Mechwarrior: Dark Age series may well have posed fewer problems for me than for many of the Battletech gurus out there.  Knowing nothing of the earlier history, I had no worries or questions about changes that had taken place in the Battletech universe during the preceding and apparently murky Golden Age of Peace spoken of here from the vantage point of 3132-3133.  Much of that earlier history would seem to be minimized, in fact, because the computer network basically holding the Republic together over &quot;the missing years&quot; has now been taken out by unknown offenders, doing much to isolate the individual planets.  With interplanetary communication greatly reduced, society's unsavory forces begin to climb back out of the shadows.  Racial and cultural tensions increase, and greedy men seize the opportunity to play their little games of power.  With internecine conflict simmering on a number of planets, the Republic finds its golden era of peace greatly threatened from within.<br />Fortunately, the Republic has certain individuals trained to observe, report, and work to forestall messy new conflicts in its sphere of influence.  Special operatives dubbed Ghosts can be sent to infiltrate questionable planet-based organizations and work to ferret out the identities of the true bad guys out there, and the hero of this novel is one of the best.  The story actually threw me for a bit of a loop about one hundred pages into it.  I would like to say that Ghost War kept me guessing, but in all honesty I was so unprepared for what happened that I wasn't aware I should have been guessing in the first place.  Battletech and Mechwarrior veterans are far too knowledgeable to fall for the plot device that zinged me, I imagine, but I did indeed get zinged.  For this reason, I will refrain from really going into any detail about the plot.  <br />I have sort of looked down upon series books of this type in the past (it's shameful, I know), but I vow to change my attitude from this point on.  Ghost War is an intricate, carefully woven story that keeps the reader on his toes until the very end.  My first Battletech novel will not be my last, and I can only hope that other Battletech authors can rival the talent of Michael A. Stackpole.	2004-03-02
764030:US	53016962	R3AY9H7CIGYSCQ	0030850789	355365169	Peanuts Classics	Books	5	7	8	N	N	My favorite collection of vintage Peanuts comics	Peanuts Classics stands among my favorite books from childhood.  It's an impressive hardback book featuring at least 150 pages of Peanuts cartoons and a large portrait of Charles M. Schulz on the back cover.  The book was released in 1970 and features comics from 1963 until the time of release, mixing Sunday edition color comics with everyday black-and-white comic strips.<br />There are some great storylines included in this collection.  You get plenty of baseball action (including the story of Charlie Brown's team's two-game win streak), the low-down on those vicious kite-eating trees, plenty of examples of Lucy being her crabby self, and that's just for starters.  Charlie Brown moons over the little red-haired girl, bemoans his loneliness and lack of success in basically everything, and always seems to come out the loser.  Linus has to contend with a painful separation from his blanket on two occasions, Lucy suffers through TV withdrawal for an extended period of time, and at one point both of the Van Pelt siblings move away to another town.  Lucy is just Lucy, practicing her grouchiness, conducting one actual \\"crab-in,\\" and selling her psychological advice for a nickel a visit; surprisingly, she does manage to cure Snoopy from the state of \\"rejection-slip shock\\" he falls into after his publisher rejects his novel and also helps him get over his night-time fear of vampires.  Sally, for her part, has to deal with wearing an eye-patch for her case of lazy eye, and Franklin and Peppermint Patty make their initial entrances into the Peanuts universe.<br />As usual, Snoopy tends to steal the show.  This book contains many comic strips featuring the World War I flying ace, the world famous hockey player, the famous ice skater, the first beagle on the moon, and even Snoopy the private investigator (not to mention Snoopy the dangerous piranha) in action; it also documents his selection as Head Beagle, which is pretty much the pinnacle of canine success.  Poor Charlie Brown just can't win for losing, though.  He screws up at the big spelling bee, suffers through one horrible baseball season after another, and even misses out on his chance to become school vice president when would-be president Linus blows the whole election by delivering a big speech on the Great Pumpkin.<br />I imagine this book is pretty hard to find these days, but it is one of the most impressive and lengthy collection of vintage Peanuts comics that I know of; it is easily my personal favorite, a childhood keepsake that I will never part with.own just can't win for losing, though.  He screws up at the big spelling bee, suffers through one horrible baseball season after another, and even misses out on his chance to become school vice president when would-be president Linus blows the whole election by delivering a big speech on the Great Pumpkin.  <br />I imagine this book is pretty hard to find these days, but it is one of the most impressive and lengthy collection of vintage Peanuts comics that I know of; it is easily my personal favorite, a childhood keepsake that I will never part with.	2004-03-01
767373:US	53016962	R1HYQW99DSIOQ2	0345443829	264327722	Garfield at Large: His 1st Book	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Garfield: large and in charge from the very beginning	He's fat and lazy and proud of it.  Back in 1978, Jim Davis introduced the world to Garfield the cat in the very comics collected in Garfield at Large, the first collection of Garfield cartoon strips.  I remember getting this book way back in 1980; I laughed all th4 way home, despite the fact that my mother insisted that no book could possibly be as funny as I thought it was.  It was funny, though; it was funny then and it is funny now.<br />In the first frame of the first comic strip, Jon Arbuckle introduces himself as a cartoonist and points us to his cat Garfield.   It becomes obvious early on that Garfield is really in charge, although Jon's attempts to assert a little control over the household from time to time inevitably result in laughs for the reader.  This comic appealed to kids as well as adults because so much of the comedy was visual in nature, capable of producing smiles even without the witty dialogue.  Garfield has a pretty good life when we meet him; he spends his days eating and sleeping, pausing at times to sharpen his claws on various pieces of furniture.  He reserves most of his energy for chasing the mailman and diving into his favorite food, lasagna.  He hates Mondays, falls prey to nap attacks at any given moment, watches television, and luxuriates in his laziness.  Sure, he's a little on the heavy side, but, as Jon discovers, putting him on a diet is far more trouble than it's worth.  Everything is fine and dandy until a roommate named Lymon is introduced; enter Odie, a blissfully unaware puppy who serves as frequent victim and sometimes friend to the big feline.  Highlights of this collection include Jon's unwise attempt to have Garfield declawed and the introduction of Garfield's teddy bear Pooky.  <br />It's rather strange to go back and enjoy these early Garfield cartoon strips once again.  Garfield has sort of a crude look to him here, and he appears much heavier than he would in later comics.  Still, his indomitable spirit (not to mention cynicism) beams out from the very beginning.  Rediscovering the early days of Garfield, Jon, and Odie makes for a most pleasant trip down nostalgia lane.  The book didn't make me laugh out loud the way it did when I was a kid, but quality, witty comedy such as this never goes out of style or loses its power to introduce a little bit of happiness into a person's day.	2004-02-27
767987:US	53016962	R28AKRTYG7HV6T	0441009549	748200717	The Forge of Mars	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Impressive, but it leaves too many questions unanswered	Bruce Balfour's The Forge of Mars is certainly an interesting, singular science fiction novel, but it seems to lack a certain oomph.  The rousing adventure I was promised was not quite as rousing as I had expected (especially over the course of the first 200 pages), and the novel seems to me to lack just a little bit of cohesion.  While Balfour's characterization of his protagonist is quite strong, I never came to adequately understand several of the secondary characters and their actions to my own satisfaction.  Still, the novel represents science fiction well worth reading.<br />Tau Wolfsinger is a brilliant NASA technician struggling to get his ideas taken seriously in the halls of bureaucracy.  A man of Navajo descent, he has a way of looking at science and the world that does not fit the corporate mold of over-specialization, and like many an eccentric genius he does not have any desire to play the game that leads to rapid promotion within an organization.  Wolfsinger's interest is in artificial intelligence.  His pet proposal would have him designing an artificial intelligence capable of procreating itself, learning and advancing on its own through a form of coevolution as weak links in the nanotechnology development are weeded out, and eventually (albeit quickly) out-performing and out-analyzing human beings.  Grant my proposal, he says, and I will create an AI that will begin with nanotechnology and build an entire human colony all by itself.  No one at NASA wants to go along with his &quot;dangerous&quot; ideas, though.<br />Enter the Davros Group and secret discoveries on Mars.  The remains of an alien civilization have been discovered, among which is a portal that the Russian scientists in control of the base have been unable to figure out.  Through a somewhat clumsy set of circumstances, Wolfsinger is suddenly given the money to pursue his dream but is coerced into doing his work on Mars.  Here both he and his girlfriend become pawns of powerful factions who are never really fleshed out sufficiently for my liking.  The work on the alien Martial portal is being conducted (and kept secret) by the Russian military, but alien intelligences on Mars contend with the Russians over control of Wolfsinger's contributions to pivotal events bearing possibly significant repercussions back on Earth.<br />The science of this novel is detailed and impressive, as Balfour delights in theorizing on the practical uses of nanotechnology in the future.  The weak link in the story, though, involves the political shenanigans working behind the scenes.  The mysterious Davros Group is barely explained at all, making its cooperation with a Russian military officer hoping to restore Russia as a superpower seems rather tenuous.  Even the actions of Wolfsinger's girlfriend oftentimes made little sense to me, although Wolfsinger himself is an impressively well-developed character.  I was also a little surprised to learn that the alien artifact discovered at the very beginning is basically ignored throughout the first half of the novel.  The Forge of Mars is a well-written science fiction novel, but it seems to pose a number of provocative questions that it fails to follow up on outside the main focus of the plot, and that fact served to limit the extent of my personal involvement with the story as a whole.who are never really fleshed out sufficiently for my liking.  The work on the alien Martial portal is being conducted (and kept secret) by the Russian military, but alien intelligences on Mars contend with the Russians over control of Wolfsinger's contributions to pivotal events bearing possibly significant repercussions back on Earth.<br />The science of this novel is detailed and impressive, as Balfour delights in theorizing on the practical uses of nanotechnology in the future.  The weak link in the story, though, involves the political shenanigans working behind the scenes.  The mysterious Davros Group is barely explained at all, making its cooperation with a Russian military officer hoping to restore Russia as a superpower seems rather tenuous.  Even the actions of Wolfsinger's girlfriend oftentimes made little sense to me, although Wolfsinger himself is an impressively well-developed character.  I was also a little surprised to learn that the alien artifact discovered at the very beginning is basically ignored throughout the first half of the novel.  The Forge of Mars is a well-written science fiction novel, but it seems to pose a number of provocative questions that it fails to follow up on outside the main focus of the plot, and that fact served to limit the extent of my personal involvement with the story as a whole.	2004-02-27
773422:US	53016962	R1GVE028FH95D4	0030426464	957923360	Race for Your Life Charlie Brown	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Peanuts' greatest adventure told in all-color book form	In 1977, Charles Schulz sent his Peanuts gang on the greatest adventure of their lives, all the way to Camp Remote somewhere in the Rockies.  It makes for one of the most memorable Peanuts movies, and this beautiful full-color book records all of the traumas and triumphs of that memorable summer camp experience.  While this doesn't number among the funniest of Peanuts books, there are still plenty of hilarious (as well as a couple of touching) incidents to enjoy.  Nobody likes a bully, but the gang has a whole team's worth of full-blooded bullies (one of them a vicious cat) to deal with at camp.  The two-time defending Number One Tent champions tell Charlie Brown in no uncertain terms that they are going to win again this year.  Charlie Brown, Linus, Franklin, and Schroeder make up one tent, while Peppermint Patty, Lucy, Sally, and Marcie make up another; Snoopy and Woodstock give the guys a third team with which to hopefully beat the bullies.  Thanks to some shameless cheating on the part of the &quot;champions,&quot; everything comes down to the final event: a river raft race.<br />It's a tough race in and of itself, with weather wreaking havoc on the contestants (it even snows at night), but the bullies do all they can to point their opponents into dangerous river passages.  Things are looking bad; Snoopy and Woodstock get separated when a terrible storm blows up, the boys and girls go out looking for them and get lost themselves, and the bullies sabotage their rafts.  No one is giving up here, though, and everything comes down to a nail-biting finish.  Will the bullies cheat their way to yet another win?  Will Charlie Brown rise to the challenge of leading his team to victory?  Whatever happens, you won't find a more visually impressive Peanuts story than the unforgettable Race For Your Life, Charlie Brown.  Just be sure to watch out for rock snakes - they like to sneak up and throw rocks at you.	2004-02-23
773885:US	53016962	R1MRR9BP132JSI	003029925X	64982916	Good Ol' Charlie Brown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three cheers for good ol' Charlie Brown	My own hardback version of Good Ol' Charlie Brown (by way of the always-appreciated Weekly Reader Children's Book Club) dubs this A New Peanuts Book, but the cartoons included in this collection all go back to the years 1955-57.  Things were a little different back then.  Charlie Brown and Lucy, for example, were only in kindergarten, Charlie Brown was sometimes the center fielder on the baseball team he managed, and Snoopy had a different look than the later one I've grown so familiar with over the years.  There aren't as many characters featured here, either: it's mostly just Charlie Brown, Lucy and Linus, Snoopy, Pig-Pen, Schroeder, and a couple of girls (one of whom I think is Veronica) who basically exist just to keep Charlie Brown feeling alone and down in the dumps.  I don't think Sally, Peppermint Patty, Marcie, or even Woodstock appears in these pages at all.  Still, it's Peanuts, and that guarantees a good time with great characters for all who peruse the pages of Good Ol' Charlie Brown.  <br />Some of these comics are clean and simple yet wonderfully fun, such as those with Linus going around shooting people with his finger until Lucy finally convinces him to stop it.  There are a lot of good Lucy and Linus moments scattered throughout the collection.  Lucy takes it upon herself to explain things to her younger brother; as just one example, she tells him that leaves don't simply fall from the trees in Autumn, they jump so that the squirrels won't get them first.  All of this stuff makes Charlie Brown's stomach hurt, but he learns time and time again that he cannot convince Lucy of any fact in the world when she has already decided to believe her own versions of science and history.  Snoopy is just Snoopy, having fun pretending to be a snake, a wolf, a polar bear, and even a kangaroo.  He also likes to dance a lot, despite Lucy's constant protests that he has no right to be so darned happy all the time.  Lucy is already a self-described fuss-budget, but you just have to love her.  <br />My personal favorites from this collection are Snoopy's imitations: not only does he do Lucy and a few other neighborhood kids, he even does a great Mickey Mouse and a masterful Beethoven (much to Schroeder's chagrin).  Don't miss your big chance to see what Pig-Pen looks like clean, as he has a whole day's worth of dirt-gathering ruined by a surprise rain shower.  Just be sure not to let Lucy worry you too much with her fear that all these feet walking around on the ground every day are wearing the Earth down to almost nothing.	2004-02-23
774079:US	53016962	R1PKW10O28GYZC	0030311608	182621149	Snoopy, Come Home	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful but very sad Peanuts movie book	The Snoopy Come Home movie is probably the most beautiful and is certainly the most touching Peanuts movie of them all, and this book version of the story is absolutely wonderful.  As a child, though, I was not completely enamored of this book for the simple fact that there is so much sadness in these pages.  For those trying to remember if they know the story or not, just think of the words &quot;No dogs allowed&quot; sung in a low and depressing voice over and over again; if you've ever seen the movie, that should definitely refresh your memory.<br />The story starts with a little girl named Lila; the poor little dear has been in the hospital for three weeks and is terribly lonely.  She writes a letter to her old friend, hoping he will come visit her.  That friend is Snoopy.  When Snoopy reads the letter, he knows he has to go see Lila.  Charlie Brown is crushed and confused when Snoopy leaves, and the feeling is made all the worse by the fact that he had just been lecturing Snoopy about doing his own thing and not appreciating what Charlie Brown did for him.  Snoopy has a time getting to the hospital, as dogs don't seem to be allowed much of anywhere.  His visit makes Lila happy for the first time in several weeks, but eventually Snoopy must make a decision: Lila wants him to stay with her, Charlie Brown is going crazy with worry, and Snoopy himself is torn as he struggles to make the right decision.  Naturally, everything ends happily, but this really is a very sad story in a number of ways.  There is much a child can learn from this book, and most children should enjoy all of the wonderful full-color pictures, but this is much more serious fare than your average Peanuts book.	2004-02-23
775402:US	53016962	R36CXLBSSXWYPR	0449215806	263680030	You Can't Win Them All, Charlie Brown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great little Peanuts book	You Can't Win Them All, Charlie Brown, originally published in 1971, consists of the second half of the book Ha Ha, Herman.  The pages aren't numbered, but I would guess there are somewhere around one hundred pages of cartoons here.  I picked this book up when I was just a wee little darkgenius starting out in the world.  Not only is this collection of Peanuts cartoons funny (but that goes without saying) but it features some pretty historically significant material.  For example, here you get to relive Snoopy's first fight with the cat next door.  Snoopy and Woodstock have a big fight over Snoopy reading War and Peace just one word at a time, but when Linus comes up screaming that the cat next door has Woodstock, Snoopy leaps into action.  Eventually reunited (and, in Snoopy's case, recovered), Snoopy and Woodstock engage in an interesting game of football.  Later on, Snoopy joins forces with Lucy in preparation for the big Christmas ice skating show only to get a bad case of stage fright at the last minute.  He's much more comfortable hanging around &quot;campus&quot; as Joe Cool, cruising for &quot;chicks&quot; in his turtleneck.<br />There are two significant storylines about Peppermint Patty (whose real name can actually be found in these pages, and that's a bit of trivia I never knew before picking up and rereading this old paperback recently).  The weird kid from camp, better known as Marcie, enter Patty's everyday life, thereby introducing the whole &quot;sir&quot; thing to the Peanuts tradition; when the girls invite &quot;Chuck&quot; over for a rousing game of Ha Ha, Herman (which is basically hide and go seek), Patty accidentally hurts a still-hidden Chuck's feelings after Marcie asks if she is in love with him.  Peppermint Patty also faces the horrible ordeal of having to wear a dress to school, thanks to a new dress code.  When she decides to defy the code, she hires Snoopy as her lawyer.<br />Any Peanuts book is a guaranteed winner, but You Can't Win Them All, Charlie Brown is particularly appealing given its insight into some of the earlier years of Charlie Brown and friends.  Just remember that this little book is really just the second half of the larger volume Ha Ha, Herman.Them All, Charlie Brown is particularly appealing given its insight into some of the earlier years of Charlie Brown and friends.  Just remember that this little book is really just the second half of the larger volume Ha Ha, Herman.	2004-02-22
776150:US	53016962	R1YZHDDBBT38Q8	0899682138	961524224	Someone in the Dark	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A derivative, unimpressive collection of ghost stories	As August Derleth says in his introduction to Someone in the Dark, he had never taken the time to write a really first-rate ghost story; by his own admission, of the two hundred plus tales of this type he had written, only the sixteen stories that make up this particular collection can possibly be read twice.  Well, I've actually read this book twice now, and I don't recommend anyone else doing the same.  August Derleth was capable of writing interesting, compelling stories from time to time, but the sixteen tales of this collection are all derivative, predictable, formulaic, exceedingly bland, and just not very good.<br />The book is divided into three sections, but to tell the truth, if you've read one of these stories you've basically read them all.  Several of them really don't even qualify as ghost stories, I'm afraid.  Either someone finds an amulet or some such thing and finds himself haunted by a spirit that he cannot see but others can, a pair of adult siblings inherit a house from an uncle with whom they shared a mutual hatred, or some morally repugnant individual helps bring about the death of a rich older relative and finds that murder will out in the end.  Far too many stories also seem to feature a woman in a black silk dress.  The final two stories are different from the others, however.  The Return of Hastur and The Sandwin Compact are tales rooted firmly in Derleth's overly simplistic conception of the Cthulhu Mythos created by his friend and mentor H.P. Lovecraft.  These are two of Derleth's most disappointing Cthulhu stories, both of them suffering terribly from his good vs evil misinterpretation of Lovecraft's morally ambivalent Mythos.  Derleth actually refers to Lovecraft's story Call of Cthulhu in one piece, while he commits the cardinal sin of ending the other story with a paragraph in italics, as if that somehow makes the passage scary. <br />Perhaps there is someone out there who might feel one brief uneasy moment as he considers the shadows of his darkened room after having closed the pages of this book some night.  If so, Derleth's self-avowed goal will have been met.  There is no guarantee this will ever happen, though, for ye olde italics gambit is about the most impressive weapon Derleth brings with him to Someone in the Dark.	2004-02-21
781219:US	53016962	R17LKNFC4DY9H4	0451459393	434249567	Way of the Wolf: Book One Of The Vampire Earth	Books	5	38	39	N	N	An awe-inspiring, truly impressive debut novel	E. E. Knight's Way of the Wolf: Book One of The Vampire Earth is one of the most impressive debut novels I have ever read.  I'm not sure why the author uses a pen name; if I had written a novel this original and absorbing, I would want my real name plastered across it in gigantic letters.  Roc has released the book in its science fiction line, but the story strikes me as dark fantasy with militaristic overtones.  Proudly drawing on the work of many great authors of the past - men such as Robert Howard, C.S. Forester, and Louis L'Amour - Knight creates a wholly original world that lives and breathes in the imagination of the reader.  Readers should not see the reference to vampires in the title and simply dismiss this book as \\"yet another vampire novel.\\"  The vampires in command of Earth in the year 2065 are like no vampires you have ever encountered, and they do not even take an active part in the proceedings recorded in this first volume of a truly noteworthy new series.<br />Way of the Wolf introduces us to David Valentine, a young Lieutenant in the Southern Command and an extraordinarily human and likeable hero in a post-apocalyptic world.  The mythology Knight constructs for this series is rather complex, but basically the earth is, in 2065, under the control of vicious minions from the planet Kur.  Long before civilization was borne on the planet, a race of pre-Entities discovered the means for traveling between worlds, arriving on Earth but dying out before the dawn of human history.  Another race eventually discovered the secrets of the Interworld Tree, and creatures from the planet Kur invaded and took over the earth after discovering they could essentially live forever by feeding on the auras of other living creatures (namely, human beings).  Lifeweavers have long opposed the Kurians, but they exist on earth in numbers insufficient to challenge the Kurian New World Order directly.  Their knowledge is passed on to human heroes such as the Wolves, however, men and women who patrol the boundaries of humanity's threatened refuge in the middle of what used to be America.  The Kurians have created the ever-dangerous Grogs to help enforce their rule, and some humans (Quislings) have chosen to serve the New World Order rather than perish.  It is the Reapers, however, who pose the greatest threat to mankind.  Reapers are brutish vampiric creatures able to detect and hunt down human beings; they feed on the blood of their victims while also serving as the conduit for their Overlords' absorption of human auras.<br />This book basically describes David's life from the time in which his family is killed up through his first year of service in the Wolves.  We follow his career from his induction into the order through a number of scouting missions, mourn alongside him the terrible loss of several good comrades, and marvel at his ingenuity, instinct for self-preservation, and innovative offensive skills in a number of deadly situations.  Eventually, fate leads him to a farm in a Kurian-controlled zone, and here he experiences \\"normal\\" life to a degree he has not known since the time before his parents' deaths.  Love now enters the mix alongside bravery, duty, and honor, making this an even more poignantly human tale.  All of this leads up to a riveting conclusion, one which satisfies the reader while setting the stage for what is to come next in the series.  I can't wait to rejoin David Valentine in the forthcoming second volume of The Vampire Earth.n and women who patrol the boundaries of humanity's threatened refuge in the middle of what used to be America.  The Kurians have created the ever-dangerous Grogs to help enforce their rule, and some humans (Quislings) have chosen to serve the New World Order rather than perish.  It is the Reapers, however, who pose the greatest threat to mankind.  Reapers are brutish vampiric creatures able to detect and hunt down human beings; they feed on the blood of their victims while also serving as the conduit for their Overlords' absorption of human auras.<br />This book basically describes David's life from the time in which his family is killed up through his first year of service in the Wolves.  We follow his career from his induction into the order through a number of scouting missions, mourn alongside him the terrible loss of several good comrades, and marvel at his ingenuity, instinct for self-preservation, and innovative offensive skills in a number of deadly situations.  Eventually, fate leads him to a farm in a Kurian-controlled zone, and here he experiences \\"normal\\" life to a degree he has not known since the time before his parents' deaths.  Love now enters the mix alongside bravery, duty, and honor, making this an even more poignantly human tale.  All of this leads up to a riveting conclusion, one which satisfies the reader while setting the stage for what is to come next in the series.  I can't wait to rejoin David Valentine in the forthcoming second volume of The Vampire Earth.	2004-02-17
785782:US	53016962	R2QSW7YAKP38R7	0441302688	510401151	The Great Time Machine Hoax	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great science fiction that borders on the profound	I've always been fascinated by the idea of time travel, so this book's title fairly jumped off the shelf of a used book store I frequented back in college.  Don't let the title, The Great Time Machine Hoax, fool you.  This isn't some piece of second-rate science fiction that winds up reneging on its promises of adventures through time; the essence of the &quot;hoax&quot; can only be found in the writing itself.  I wouldn't call this novel incredibly visionary, either, but it does provide much food for thought in terms of the philosophy of science.<br />Of course, you can just read the novel for the story itself and get your money's worth.  Laumer mixes plenty of wit and comedy into the adventures of our main characters.  As the book opens, Chester W. Chester IV has been legally declared the sole heir of his quirky great-grandfather's estate; unfortunately, the back taxes that have accrued over the full century of legal wrangling over the will seem to do Chester more harm than good.  In order to raise money, he is forced to close down his Wowser Wonder Shows circus.  Case Mulvihill, the man running the circus, is determined to find a way to save the business, and he focuses his attention on the giant computer in Chester's great-grandfather's house.  Chester's ancestor had poured the bulk of his money and the last quarter century of his life into building the Generalized Non-Linear Extrapolator; basically, the idea was to connect an ungodly amount of memory to the processor and input all the knowledge known to man into the machine.  Of course, actually making use of all this information is the proverbial rub.  Chester and Chase visit the house and start asking the computer questions.  Eventually, Case tests the machine by asking for realistic looks into the distant past.  This is where the trouble starts.  The two men, and the female named Genie the computer creates to be their guide, wind up trapped and separated in time, in eras ranging from that of cavemen to a future society based on philosophy and science.  For Chester, rescuing his friends and getting back home safe and sound stands as a true challenge indeed.<br />I think the writing in this novel is a tad bit uneven at times, but this is a quick and entertaining read blessed with both comedy and insight.  By far the most fascinating section to me was Chester's reeducation in a future academy.  A lifetime's worth of learning is packed into a single year, and Laumer takes the opportunity to introduce some truly thought-provoking ideas about mental and physical education, the mastery of mind over pain and boredom, and the making of a man in his most enlightened and nature-attuned form.  Some of the philosophy proffered here borders on the esoteric (the starting point and unofficial school &quot;motto&quot; is &quot;Is-not is not not-is&quot;) yet much of it seems to merit consideration in the reader's own approach to life.<br />Keith Laumer's 1963 The Great Time Machine Hoax is just very good science fiction.  It offers a rousingly good story that anyone can enjoy, yet it goes beyond the surface to mine for a few nuggets of intellectual ore in the ground of the human mind.  This is the kind of novel that can give birth to a love of science fiction in the mind of someone new to the genre.uture society based on philosophy and science.  For Chester, rescuing his friends and getting back home safe and sound stands as a true challenge indeed.  <br />I think the writing in this novel is a tad bit uneven at times, but this is a quick and entertaining read blessed with both comedy and insight.  By far the most fascinating section to me was Chester's reeducation in a future academy.  A lifetime's worth of learning is packed into a single year, and Laumer takes the opportunity to introduce some truly thought-provoking ideas about mental and physical education, the mastery of mind over pain and boredom, and the making of a man in his most enlightened and nature-attuned form.  Some of the philosophy proffered here borders on the esoteric (the starting point and unofficial school &quot;motto&quot; is &quot;Is-not is not not-is&quot;) yet much of it seems to merit consideration in the reader's own approach to life.  <br />Keith Laumer's 1963 The Great Time Machine Hoax is just very good science fiction.  It offers a rousingly good story that anyone can enjoy, yet it goes beyond the surface to mine for a few nuggets of intellectual ore in the ground of the human mind.  This is the kind of novel that can give birth to a love of science fiction in the mind of someone new to the genre.	2004-02-14
787577:US	53016962	R3PLPOVTZ7BE6G	0425186164	106584289	The Science of Vampires	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A fascinating, multi-faceted analysis of the vampire	I think the title of this book does it more harm than good, creating expectations that don't quite pan out in the text and thereby donning it with a ready-made target for criticism.  It's really hard to describe The Science of Vampires because the author covers so much material and does it in the most fascinating of ways.  I found this book nothing short of riveting and continuously eye-opening.  I've been reading about vampires for a long time, but Ramsland made me feel like a vampire layman quite uninitiated in the secrets truths and mystical airs of the subject at hand.  She advanced notions that had never occurred to me, bringing to bear the tools of physical, abstract, and social science in her study.<br />Nowhere does the author claim that vampires are \\"real,\\" it is important to note.  She is not out to prove vampire existence; instead, she sets out to study the vampire mythos in a scientific manner.  When she discusses the \\"birth\\" of the vampire in folklore, she addresses such physical things as the decomposition of the human body to explain how perfectly natural occurrences such as a body shifting in the grave, bloating, or maintaining a rare redness of pallor might explain events our ancestors ascribed to evil manifestations.  She takes vampire characteristics such as fangs, a compulsion to drink blood, an inability to tolerate sunlight, etc., and postulates as to what conditions and behaviors might provide an actual, scientific explanation for such unusual manifestations in an individual.  She even delves rather deeply into matters of DNA and genetic mutation in discussing the possibility of retarding cellular death in order to prolong life.  I was mesmerized by the conjectures she offered up for thought.  She takes a substantive look at vampire-like criminals such as Peter Kurten (the Monster of Dusseldorf), Countess Erzebet Bathory, as well as serial killers such as Jeffrey Dahmer, and she even goes so far as to describe what the crime scene of an actual vampire killing might look like.  She goes deeply into psychology and forensics, offering a profile of a hypothetical vampire killer and pointing to serological analyses, odontological studies of teeth marks, and other modern marvels of forensic science that would put the vampire of today in a much more legally vulnerable spot than his blood-sucking predecessors of old.  Later, she attempts to answer all the questions you have about vampire sex and are afraid to ask, addressing the undeniably powerful eroticism that in many ways defines vampirism.<br />Ramsland's most instructive contributions are also her most esoteric ones.  The author spends a significant amount of time speaking to the continual evolution and seemingly permanent appeal of the vampire.  Her approach reveals more about man than vampire in the end, but that is because the vampire not only represents something deep and meaningful in the human imagination, he reflects and anticipates constantly shifting cultural values in society.  Ramsland demonstrates this most forcibly in her analysis of the evolution of the vampire persona in literature over the years; the appeal of Dracula remains strong, but the vampires of the late 20th century are a far cry from Stoker's imaginings; what was once evil has been turned into all manner of romantic, sympathetic, and sexually twisted individuals.  She employs the methods of deconstruction to examine vampires in a postmodern light, linking such analysis to the radical scientific shift from Newtonian thought to quantum theory.  Ramsland's ability to address the essence of vampirism from so many complex levels is impressive, to say the least.<br />The Science of Vampires is one of the most insightful, eye-opening, horizon-expanding examinations of the vampire I have ever read.  Although the author uses a plethora of analytical tools from a wide assortment of disciplines, the text remains fascinating and lucid throughout.  The Science of Vampires answers questions I would never have thought to ask, and I recommend it quite highly to anyone with a passionate interest in that most powerful and alluring monster of man's collective imagination, the vampire.would never have thought to ask, and I recommend it quite highly to anyone with a passionate interest in that most powerful and alluring monster of man's collective imagination, the vampire.	2004-02-12
793453:US	53016962	R3CSVJT9CKGF04	0802409075	136145776	What's Next?: God, Israel, and the Future of Iraq	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An updated look at the Middle East in Biblical prophecy	Charles H. Dyer, author of the best-seller The Rise of Babylon, addresses the future of Israel, the Middle East, Iraq, and basically the whole world in the aftermath of America's defeat and capture of Saddam Hussein.  It is always interesting to see how an expert's interpretation of Biblical prophecy stands up against significant changes in the political and religious landscape.  To Dyer's credit, he has remained markedly steadfast in his prophetic musings on the future of the Middle East.  Saddam Hussein will not finish the rebuilding of Babylon which Dyer addressed in The Rise of Babylon, but the ancient city will be rebuilt.  Babylon will play a major role in the End of Days, as Dyer explains, but the major emphasis of What's Next? is not Biblical prophecy so much as the complex nature of the Middle East and its peoples.  <br />Dyer takes a noticeably inclusive approach to the subject at hand, seeking to explain the position of both major players as well as forgotten voices in the perpetual Middle East crisis.  I was actually somewhat surprised by his even-handed treatment of both Israelis and Palestinians, and I definitely picked up bits of fresh knowledge here.  The bewildering degree of hatred that Islamic fundamentalists hold toward Israel is difficult for me to understand, as are the charges that the United States is somehow under the control of Jewish manipulators.  To me, such beliefs are nothing short of ludicrous, but Dyer shows just how central such beliefs are to the mindset of Islamic fundamentalists. He also puts a human face behind such beliefs and provides a relatively simple yet illuminating look at the differences between Shiite and Sunni Moslem beliefs.  Basically, he argues, Moslems believe any land captured and dedicated to Allah is Allah's forever, and this is one of the prominent reasons for Islamic hatred for the existence of Israel.  <br />When Dyer addresses the nation of Israel, he questions some of their anti-terrorism tactics and showshow the Israelis do not truly conform to any stereotypes, be they good or bad, in which they are often viewed.  He hearkens back to God's instructions for the people of Israel to treat non-believers living in their nation as equals under the law; this helps explain why a segregationist policy will not work for the Israelis.  He also speaks to some of the abuses and restrictions handed down by orthodox Jews (a rather small minority of Israeli citizens) toward not only the Palestinians but also Jews who have come to profess Christ.  This gets right to the crux of the matter, really.  Dyer argues that Christians should certainly support the nation of Israel despite the Jews' failure to accept Jesus as the Messiah, for God has said He will judge the nations largely upon their treatment of Israel.  Going further, Dyer describes the men and women truly caught in the Middle East crossfire - Christian Arabs and Christianized Jews.  These are voices never really heard in the ongoing debate - until now.<br />In terms of the prophecy for the future, little has changed from Dyer's arguments in The Rise of Babylon.  The city of Babylon will be restored to power, most likely by a new strongman in Iraq, who will establish a special relationship with a new, powerful European confederacy, the leader of which will exploit the oil and economic power of Babylon in pursuit of his own military objectives.  This leader will bring peace to the Middle East, brokering a seven-year agreement guaranteeing an end to Palestinian-Israeli hostilities.  This peace will not last - for anyone, even though Israel will exchange its swords for ploughshares and leave itself vulnerable for the ultimate betrayal addressed in the prophecies of Daniel, Ezekiel, and Revelations.  Islamic fundamentalists from countries not bordering Israel will not accept the brokered peace, and they will amass an army with which to attack Israel.  God Himself will intervene to destroy the enemy armies by means of a giant earthquake, and it is at this point that the nation of Israel will begin to recognize and worship the God who sent Jesus to earth as the Messiah.  Islamic fundamentalists will be in shock at the defeat of their armies, and in their crisis of faith they will turn to the European leader who brokered the peace.  This leader (the Beast of Revelations) will - after forty two months of peace - declare himself God inside the rebuilt Jerusalem temple .  Over the course of the next three and a half years, this Anti-Christ will hold and exercise matchless power over the world, setting the stage for Armageddon.  After turning on and destroying Babylon, his forces will move to destroy Jerusalem, at which point the final battle described in Revelations will take place.  <br />Dyer's What's Next? is a relatively short book which can easily be read in one sitting.  I think it helps to have a familiarity with Biblical prophecy going in, though, as Dyer never truly goes into detail in these pages.  The prophetic message differs little from standard Biblical interpretations.  Surprisingly, it is Dyer's brief but insightful look at the full context of the Middle East crisis that makes this book such a rewarding and enlightening read.  I should also mention the impressive inclusion of eight pages of beautiful color photographs of important sites in the Middle East.	2004-02-08
795069:US	53016962	RRXFTTFGLCFOW	0756400481	867455964	Malachi's Moon (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A thoroughly enjoyable, different kind of vampire novel	In Red Moon Rising, Billie Sue Mosiman defined her own race of vampires and set in motion the sweeping events that were to take place in the future of the vampire nations.  The first novel was impressive but, in some sense, incomplete.  The sequel, Malachi's Moon, not only takes the story further, it packs more of an emotional and action-oriented punch.  In this fictional world, the source of vampirism is a hereditary mutated form of the blood disease porphyria; the disease can strike the children of vampires at any time or, in rare cases, not at all.  Dell Cambian became a vampire a few months before her high school graduation, and with the help of the ancient vampire Mentor, she chose the life of a Natural.  Naturals do not feed on living things the way the much more aggressive Predator vampires do; they, along with the weak and sickly Cravens, buy their blood from the Predators.  Mentor is a Predator who chose long ago to live a different kind of life, helping new vampires make the transition from death to undeath; he now faces the most monumental task of his centuries-old life.  For the first time, vampires are lining up against vampires, instigated by a cunning and very dangerous revenant Mentor knows only too well, and Dell Cambian's only child, Malachi, becomes the ultimate target of those seeking to defy the laws of the vampire nations.<br />Malachi is special, for he is a dhampir, the son of a vampire mother and a human father.  He possesses many of the strengths and abilities of a vampire, yet he can be killed just the same as any human being.  An ancient vampire prophecy speaks of a dhampir who will come to slay many Predators; while some vampires may scoff at the notion, some take it very seriously.  Balthazar, a powerful Predator, comes to Malachi in his childhood dreams in the form of a wolf, returning again and again over the years seeking a sign that Malachi is the dhampir of prophecy; by the time Malachi comes of age, Balthazar has amassed an army of Predators with which to remove the dhampir threat completely.  Meanwhile, in the deep jungle interior of Thailand, multi-millionaire turned vampire Charles Upton spends two decades in an ancient monastery, imprisoned there by Mentor following the culminating events of the author's previous novel Blood Moon Rising.  He dreams of true power, and when he finally manages to escape he wastes no time rounding up lone Predators for his own army.  No longer will vampires remain in the shadows, invisible to humans, Upton preaches; it is time for the Predators to destroy their weak Craven and Natural brothers and claim the earth as their own.  When Balthazar and Upton join forces, even Mentor is unsure whether this awful Predator uprising can be put down.<br />I enjoyed this novel much more than its predecessor; the hows and whys (illogical as some of them may be) of vampire existence have already been explained, leaving more time for action and suspense in Malachi's Moon.  I was a little disappointed in the vampire war itself, however, as we really don't get to witness a lot of hand-to-hand fighting firsthand; instead, we are told just how ferocious the battle was.  I also think the parallel strands involving Upton's revolt and Balthazar's attempts to kill Malachi could have been interwoven just a little more closely.  The final couple of chapters actually seem to take a little bit away from the force of the novel, and that fact struck something of a discordant tone in my head.  Even still, Malachi's Moon is a truly entertaining and enjoyable novel, a vampire tale featuring more than a few dashes of originality.  Mosiman particularly excels in the creation and continuous development of unique and memorable characters.  These vampires actually provide telling glimpses into human nature itself, especially the emotionally torn and extremely humanistic Mentor.  Malachi is himself a most interesting character, of course, with his rare blend of vampire and human makeup.  I don'tfeel as if I really know and understand Malachi yet, but his story continues in Craven Moon, the third book in this unofficial series of the vampire nations.<br />I would heartily recommend Mosiman to those who love a good vampire novel.  Mosiman's vampires are much different from the old stereotypical Dracula types that dominate the horror genre, and this author really knows how to keep a story moving at a steady pace.'t feel as if I really know and understand Malachi yet, but his story continues in Craven Moon, the third book in this unofficial series of the vampire nations.  <br />I would heartily recommend Mosiman to those who love a good vampire novel.  Mosiman's vampires are much different from the old stereotypical Dracula types that dominate the horror genre, and this author really knows how to keep a story moving at a steady pace.	2004-02-07
801788:US	53016962	R2PJ86TQA26GQM	0886779553	9322718	Red Moon Rising: A Vampire Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A refreshingly different type of vampire novel	Billie Sue Mosiman, in Red Moon Rising, presents the reader with a promising new vision of vampirism.  The author's basic premise is a good one, and it bodes well for the future of this book's sequels, but the storyline here begins to unravel a bit by the end, somewhat weakened by a lack of closure.  There also seem to be a couple of inconsistencies over the course of the novel, but these do little harm.  Red Moon Rising is a fast and enjoyable read, possessing a spirit of novelty that few vampire novels manage to attain these days, but it comes up a little short due largely to a few rushed spots and a few weaknesses in characterization.<br />In the world of Mosiman's creation, vampirism is caused by a mutated form of the blood disease porphyria (although vampires can be &quot;made&quot; on rare occasions); crossing the threshold from life to undeath involves a spiritual journey.  There are three types of vampires - Predators, Naturals, and Cravens - and the afflicted Soul is transported to a dark and frightening world in which he/she must choose what type of vampire he/she wants to be.  It is easy to give in to the Predators; these are the more stereotypical vampires, holding some disdain for mankind and partaking of fresh meals any time they want to.  The Cravens also hold some allure to journeyman souls in this confusing new world, but Cravens are looked down upon by their brethren for their cowardly inability to cope with the change and take care of themselves in their new &quot;lives.&quot;  The Naturals reject the animal-like blood lust of the Predators and seek to live their lives in the guise of normal human beings, relying on the Predators' supply of bagged blood for their sustenance.<br />As the novel opens, eighteen-year-old Dell Cambian is forced to make her choice.  She is a typical teenager who just happens to come from a family of vampires, but she had desperately hoped the disease would pass her by.  An ancient vampire named Mentor is called upon to help Dell through her transition, and in a sense both of these characters compete for the role of protagonist as the book rolls along.  Mentor has more to worry about that Dell's rebelliousness and growing love for a human boy, though.  The Predator in charge of the area's blood supply business is poised to take drastic action when a pair of humans finds evidence of the vampires' existence, and an even bigger potential threat looms in the form of a filthy rich old man dying of the normal form of porphyria and seeking out a vampire to give him eternal life.<br />The novel starts off really well, especially in terms of Dell's troubles adjusting to her new &quot;life.&quot;  The reader also gets valuable insight into Mentor, a most unusual vampire who has undertaken the job of guiding all of his young charges in the area.  The novel loses cohesion toward the end, however, and certain key elements simply come about without much explanation.  Clearly, Mosiman was setting the stage for a sequel, and this results in a definite lack of closure to this particular novel.<br />All in all, though, Red Moon Rising is an original and quite enjoyable vampire novel.  The medical rather than supernatural source of vampirism serves the author well, and the means by which vampires consume human blood is particularly interesting (albeit somewhat silly).  The minor flaws in storyline progression and characterization are typical of a writer still developing his/her mastery of the craft.  There is much to be excited about here, though, and I for one expect to see big things from Billie Sue Mosiman in the near future.o help Dell through her transition, and in a sense both of these characters compete for the role of protagonist as the book rolls along.  Mentor has more to worry about that Dell's rebelliousness and growing love for a human boy, though.  The Predator in charge of the area's blood supply business is poised to take drastic action when a pair of humans finds evidence of the vampires' existence, and an even bigger potential threat looms in the form of a filthy rich old man dying of the normal form of porphyria and seeking out a vampire to give him eternal life.  <br />The novel starts off really well, especially in terms of Dell's troubles adjusting to her new &quot;life.&quot;  The reader also gets valuable insight into Mentor, a most unusual vampire who has undertaken the job of guiding all of his young charges in the area.  The novel loses cohesion toward the end, however, and certain key elements simply come about without much explanation.  Clearly, Mosiman was setting the stage for a sequel, and this results in a definite lack of closure to this particular novel.  <br />All in all, though, Red Moon Rising is an original and quite enjoyable vampire novel.  The medical rather than supernatural source of vampirism serves the author well, and the means by which vampires consume human blood is particularly interesting (albeit somewhat silly).  The minor flaws in storyline progression and characterization are typical of a writer still developing his/her mastery of the craft.  There is much to be excited about here, though, and I for one expect to see big things from Billie Sue Mosiman in the near future.	2004-02-02
803783:US	53016962	R3U718LHTQZLO1	0310539218	193717426	Armageddon, Oil, and the Middle East Crisis: What the Bible Says About the Future of the MiddleEast and the End of Western Civilization	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Remains a timely interpretation of end times prophecy	John F. Walvoord's Armageddon, Oil and the Middle East Crisis remains an interesting and timely read, despite the fact that the book was originally published in 1974 and revised in 1990.  Drawing heavily from the myriad of prophecies in the Bible, particularly those in Daniel, Ezekiel, and Revelations, Walvoord paints a vivid picture of the end of days and argues rather convincingly that the end is indeed quite near.  Central to his thesis is the perpetual hotbed that is the Middle East.  It is here that the final battle of Armageddon will take place, and Israel will stand at the very center of the ultimate conflict.  The restoration of Israel as a nation in Palestine was the final critical piece of the puzzle that worked to set the stage for the fulfillment of the prophecies of old.<br />The Arab-Israeli conflict over land will be the powder keg that sets everything in motion, according to the author.  The oil embargoes of the 1970s clearly impressed Walvoord in terms of the growing wealth and power in the Middle East, and he implies that the importance of oil throughout the world will shape future events quite radically.  It is Europe that is most dependent on the import of oil from the Middle East, and this leads Walvoord to conclude that the ten-headed beast of Biblical prophecy will take the form of a ten-nation confederation of European, Arab, and possibly north African nations - it will be the equivalent of a new Roman empire centered around the Mediterranean, and from this group a powerful leader will emerge to somehow force a peace settlement between Israel and its neighbors.  This leader will then seize power over three of the ten allied nations and go on to proclaim himself the world dictator and supreme deity.  Three and a half years after securing Israel a seemingly lasting peace, the Antichrist will turn and destroy the country.  By this time, armies from the north, south, and east will march on Jerusalem in an attempt to overthrow the self-proclaimed world dictator, at which point Jesus will return to Earth to punish the evil-doers and establish His millennial kingdom.<br />Walvoord does a very nice job explaining the terrible things that will take place on earth in the last days, particularly after the Antichrist declares himself to the world and before Jesus' triumphant return.  Descriptions of all of these catastrophic punishments can all be found in the Bible, and they make for a decidedly grim period of time.  Walvoord clearly espouses his conclusion that the Rapture of the church will take place before the time of tribulation on earth begins.  Unlike Armageddon, the Bible provides no real clues as to when the Rapture will take place, but Walvoord's conviction that the time of tribulation is drawing nigh leads him to infer that the preceding Rapture could happen at any time.  Interestingly, Walvoord theorizes that the United States will not play a central role in these events, having fallen into a state of isolation.  Russia will hold even less power over the pivotal future events in the Middle East; it will try to regain its influence by attacking Israel, only to see its invading army destroyed by some supernatural force.<br />The subject of the end times can be rather confusing, and Walvoord does the reader a great service by providing graphs and lists of the coming events as he sees them.  He also backs up his arguments well with many references to the Scriptures and the application of deductive reasoning.  Certainly, though, he may not be right about everything.  I personally disagree with a couple of his conclusions, and he clearly expected certain events to be in motion before the current year of 2004, but he makes a clear, cogent presentation of all his evidence.  The passage of over ten years since the revised edition of the book, during which two wars have been fought in the Persian Gulf, really does nothing to invalidate any of Walvoord's main points, making this a still remarkably timely analysisof end time prophecy.ysis of end time prophecy.	2004-01-31
808344:US	53016962	R1ZNODD0HKRLLA	0312082029	165460204	Graveyard: True Hauntings from an Old New England Cemetery	Books	3	24	33	N	N	Fascinating stories with too little documentation	Graveyard consists of a number of cemetery-related ghost stories.  The first third of the book addresses stories surrounding Union Cemetery in the Warrens' home state of Connecticut, while the remaining two-thirds of the book is made up of similar graveyard tales from all over.  The book was basically written by Robert David Chase, but Ed and Lorraine Warren clearly determined the content and offered many of their own opinions and stories throughout the narrative.  The Warrens are well-known ghost hunters, and this fact can be something of a double-edged sword.  Name recognition alone will draw some to this book while turning others away.  The Warrens are a very active and outspoken couple, and many of their beliefs and theories are rather extreme.  Personally, I believe in ghosts, but my own beliefs do not stretch as far as those of the Warrens.  The famous couple seems to find ghosts everywhere; they go into a cemetery with a tape recorder or video camera and come out with evidence of spiritual contact, evidence which is rarely laid out specifically for those they are speaking to or detectable in the evidence they offer.  In addition, they often assume facts which still remain up in the air to many of those interested in the subject at hand.  I find them overzealous at best.  For instance, Ed talks about having filmed a ghost in Union Cemetery that could easily be seen on the video he took of it, yet no picture of this sort is included in the eight pages of black and white photos in this book.  All claims aside, there really is no proof offered for any of the stories told in this book.<br />Graveyard should be viewed as a collection of ghost stories and nothing more.  In that capacity, the book works reasonably well.  A number of very different ghostly experiences are described here, several of which do have the potential to raise goose bumps.  Almost all of these stories are interesting if not fascinating, and the centrality of cemeteries in each story makes thisa somewhat unusual book of ghost tales.  Taken in this vein and viewed primarily in terms of entertainment, Graveyard is a successful book.  If you expect more than that from the Warrens, you may be disappointed, as this book is not constructed on a solid foundation of credibility.	2004-01-28
809658:US	53016962	R3D7KH6T6MN5YO	0806510161	463235663	The Complete Films of Marilyn Monroe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An impressive little reference guide to Marilyn's films	The Complete Films of Marilyn Monroe is an excellent resource for those fascinated by Marilyn and her movies.  It is introduced with a copy of the touching tribute Lee Strasberg delivered at Marilyn's funeral, which in turn is followed by two high-quality essays.  In &quot;One American Woman: A Speculation Upon Disbelief,&quot; Mark Harris takes a look at the course of Marilyn's life, and then Michael Conway delivers a summation of Marilyn's film career in a section dubbed &quot;Marilyn and Hollywood.&quot;  After this auspicious and respectful beginning, authors Michael Conway and Mark Ricci go about providing basic information on all of Marilyn's films in chronological order.  For the most part, these descriptions are of a highly formulaic type, listing the cast and film credits alongside a synopsis of the plot, accompanied by select comments from professional reviewers of the time.  Little detail about the making of each film is provided, but a number of black and white pictures from each production help the reader get a sense of perspective on the evolution of Marilyn's career.<br />The films Marilyn made in and after 1953, the year in which she became an undeniable star, remain pretty familiar to this day: films such as Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, The Seven Year Itch, Bus Stop, Some Like It Hot, The Prince and the Showgirl, and The Misfits.  For most people, far less is known about Marilyn's early films, and it is here that this particular book serves its greatest purpose.  Here you will find basic information on largely forgotten films from the early 1950s featuring Marilyn in the smallest of roles, films such as Dangerous Years, Ladies of the Chorus, A Ticket to Tomahawk, The Fireball, Right Cross, and Hometown Story.  Those unfamiliar with the truly transformative period of Marilyn's career from bit player to star-in-waiting will want to check out the sections on films such as As Young as You Feel, Love Nest, Let's Make it Legal, and Don't Bother to Knock.  The importance of Marilyn's small but visible roles in such classics as The Asphalt Jungle, Clash By Night, and All About Eve are also alluded to in these pages.<br />From Marilyn's first part in the film Scudda Hoo! Scudda Hay! (a part that wound up on the cutting room floor) to her final completed film The Misfits and an aborted new project called Something's Got to Give, the authors trace Marilyn's cinematic evolution from a lovely young woman wanting to be an actress to a true goddess of the silver screen.The importance of Marilyn's small but visible roles in such classics as The Asphalt Jungle, Clash By Night, and All About Eve are also alluded to in these pages.  <br />From Marilyn's first part in the film Scudda Hoo! Scudda Hay! (a part that wound up on the cutting room floor) to her final completed film The Misfits and an aborted new project called Something's Got to Give, the authors trace Marilyn's cinematic evolution from a lovely young woman wanting to be an actress to a true goddess of the silver screen.	2004-01-27
810326:US	53016962	R2VSY44XM22PQH	0380798271	315455376	Commitment Hour	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A most unusual story of gender roles in society	James Alan Gardner's Commitment Hour certainly isn't your run-of-the-mill science fiction novel.  The author provides an interesting and sometimes uncomfortable look at the role of gender in society, but I'm not sure he is entirely successful, nor am I sure if there was some highly perceptive point he was trying to make or if he found any real answers to his own questions in this regard.  The first few chapters failed to spark my interest, but in time Gardner did manage to bring a sense of life to the story and create something interesting albeit ultimately somewhat unfulfilling.<br />The setting is twenty-fifth century earth, a somewhat primitive and naturalistic era borne of the fact that some seventy percent of the population has left for other planets in the wake of alien visitation; the technology of man's past has largely been abandoned, its relics consigned to the stuff of legend.  The aliens and the facts of the big migration are only mentioned and never really emphasized; rather, it is the unique society of Tober Cove that demands all of the author's attention.  Like most new earth societies, Tober Cove is a land of farmers and fishermen; here, a priestess marks the changing of seasons in primitive rituals and the law is upheld by a representative of the legendary Patriarch.  Tober Cove is unique in one regard, however; here, the children alternate their sex between male and female for the first twenty years of their lives, after which time, at the crucial Commitment Hour, each one chooses whether to live as a male, a female, or - on rare occasions - both.  Neuts are rare indeed, for those who choose a hermaphroditic life are banished from the land and threatened with instant death should they return.<br />Fullin stands on the brink of his Commitment Hour choice, as does his life's partner Cappie.  Fullin is confused enough by his feelings toward Cappie, feelings which vary significantly from year to year as his sex changes, but life gets infinitely more confusing when a scientist comes to witness and study the Commitment Hour ceremonies, bringing alongside him a Neut banished from Tober Cove twenty years earlier.  Murder and other disquieting horror visits the village, and by the time Fullin and Cappie are ready to be flown to the mysterious Birds Home to make their final commitments, dramatic change indeed is blowing in the wind.  It is only in the final chapters that a real science fiction element enters the story, but this mainly serves as a means for wrapping up the gender study the novel basically consists of.<br />The story can be confusing at times, and the mixing and confusion of sexual perspectives never truly delivers any revelations of insight.  The fact that Fullin, ostensibly a male at this time, is troubled by homosexual feelings from both sides of the gender line, combined with the whole society's antipathy toward Neuts, strikes a discordant chord, and few of Gardner's sexual questions find answers in his strikingly unusual conclusion.  Commitment Hour is a strange novel, a book of probing questions without ultimate answers, but such is the very state of society itself.  Some readers will no doubt find this novel an uncomfortable read, but its novelty and sense of unusual purpose make of it a story worth pursuing and pondering over.nfusing when a scientist comes to witness and study the Commitment Hour ceremonies, bringing alongside him a Neut banished from Tober Cove twenty years earlier.  Murder and other disquieting horror visits the village, and by the time Fullin and Cappie are ready to be flown to the mysterious Birds Home to make their final commitments, dramatic change indeed is blowing in the wind.  It is only in the final chapters that a real science fiction element enters the story, but this mainly serves as a means for wrapping up the gender study the novel basically consists of.<br />The story can be confusing at times, and the mixing and confusion of sexual perspectives never truly delivers any revelations of insight.  The fact that Fullin, ostensibly a male at this time, is troubled by homosexual feelings from both sides of the gender line, combined with the whole society's antipathy toward Neuts, strikes a discordant chord, and few of Gardner's sexual questions find answers in his strikingly unusual conclusion.  Commitment Hour is a strange novel, a book of probing questions without ultimate answers, but such is the very state of society itself.  Some readers will no doubt find this novel an uncomfortable read, but its novelty and sense of unusual purpose make of it a story worth pursuing and pondering over.	2004-01-26
811530:US	53016962	R1XOK0KZF8EYEN	1564406997	274962132	Haunted Houses: Chilling Tales from Nineteen American Homes (A Campfire Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Roberts lets the ghost stories tell themselves	Few people have visited as many reportedly haunted places or spoken to as many witnesses to unexplainable events as Nancy Roberts, and the personal, down-home manner of her writing style has made her one of the country's most celebrated purveyors of ghost-enchanted tales.  Haunted Houses tells the stories of nineteen haunted houses found across the United States.  Few of these stories will make your blood run cold, and Roberts eloquently expresses her belief that many spirits return for reasons far removed from any violent circumstances of their deaths or thirsts for revenge, but there is a definite level of creepiness in some of the tales recorded in this impressive little book that will have you checking the shadows in the corners from time to time.  <br />These stories are eminently readable; several are told in the words of actual witnesses, but all are described in a conversational manner.  This is not a formal study of the paranormal; it is instead a collection of the personal stories told by all manner of normal men and women describing unexplainable events they have been witness to.  All nineteen of the &quot;houses&quot; (with the exception of the Hotel Ione which has since burned to the ground) also exist to some degree as historical landmarks, many of which are open to visitors or operate as bed and breakfast inns which still welcome guests.  Roberts provides the relevant information about each location in case her readers wish to visit these places themselves.<br />Among the ghosts described in these pages are a murdered French soldier, a hanged Tory spy, a hostess who continues to greet guests to her establishment, lovers who still return to honor their undying affection, a well-known pirate, a heartbroken father returning to the place where his little girl died, young ladies seeking important objects of affection, and young soldiers who died too soon.  Locations include old forts, governors' mansions, a sea-side resort, hotels, plantation houses, and fancy villas found all the way from Maine to California and many points in between.  A number of the legends come from the South, including several from the home state of North Carolina shared by both myself and the author.  <br />These are not ghost stories in the sense of campfire tales meant to frighten children or patently unreal stories that beg disbelief; these are the real stories of real people, many of them simply dripping with historical significance.  Whether you believe or disbelieve the things you will read in this book, there is not a ghost of a chance that these nineteen tales will fail to touch you with their simple beauty and exceedingly human qualities.	2004-01-25
812888:US	53016962	R12TSHKPXA3JID	0451458176	691739229	The Shasht War: The Second Book of Arna (Arna (NAL))	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Even better than the first Book of Arna	Christopher Rowley is a true modern master of fantasy.  The Ancient Enemy: The First Book of Arna was a simply fantastic read, and The Shasht War: The Second Book of Arna is even more engaging, exciting, and poignant than its predecessor.  This book plumbs ever deeper into the hearts of men by holding up the cruel men of Shasht as representatives of the darkness that seemingly haunts our own human society.  The Ancient Enemy introduced us to a wonderful land of plenty wherein live mots, mors, brilbies, and kobs - monkey-like creatures of high intelligence and spirituality.  Long ago, as the stories tell, Man the Cruel once reigned over the world, but his own self-destructive tendencies destroyed the natural order of life and led to Man's ultimate demise.  The mots and mors of Arna cared for the land, celebrated the Spirit that inhabited all living things, and knew nothing of the arts of war.  Then Man the Cruel returned, destroying villages, slaughtering and feeding upon thousands of Arna's citizens, and bringing unforeseeable war to the peaceful land.  Thru Gillo, who only wants to hone his weaving skills and enjoy the love of the mor Nuza, steps into the role of hero, fighting valiantly to defend his people.  On the other side of the conflict, Simona of Gsekk, a young noblewoman forced to endure the hardship of sailing across the world in order to help colonize a new land, comes to know, respect, and love the &quot;animals&quot; her people are trying to exterminate.  The moving stories of Thru and Simona are vastly expanded in The Shasht War.<br />As the book opens, spring has arrived and the armies of Man the Cruel have returned, determined not to be defeated by a race of animals the priests of the culture declare unintelligent abominations.  There is actually less war here than in the first book, but Rowley's vivid description of the horrors of armed conflict take you right into the heat of battle.  For the first time, Man achieves a victory over the mots, and Thru Gillo is among the fighters captured and taken back across the sea to the land of Shasht.  Simona herself also wins the right to sail back home to Shasht, where she seizes the opportunity to speak openly with the emperor about the colonial war destroying the noble beings of Arna.  The emperor's powers are limited, though, as the mysterious Old One and his blood-thirsty priests exert a power over Shasht that none can easily challenge.  For Thru and his fellow captives, death seems imminent and unavoidable, but in Thru there beats the heart of a true hero.  His time in Shasht will take him outside the pyramid of ritual sacrifice and into the interior of the strange land, where he must fight to survive.  He learns much during this time, as do we, as do a number of men of Shasht.  Thru finds friends who are willing to help him despite the great risks in doing so, but his best and only hope of survival lies in the person of Simona.  For her part, Simona truly comes of age as a human being and as a woman, rebelling openly from the society that seeks to annihilate her peaceful friends in Arna and seeks to keep her and all women hopelessly repressed.  For everyone involved, the time spent in Shasht is one of self-discovery and illumination.  Rowley begins bridging the gap between men and mots in a number of ways, turning despair into a great hope that closes out this second Book of Arna and sets the stage for a most promising continuation in Doom's Break: The Third Book of Arna.  <br />Rowley is just an amazing writer.  On both sides of the conflict, Rowley illuminates the very souls of all of his main characters, both human and mot.  His descriptions of warfare are incredibly visual, but it is his powerful ability to reveal the hearts and souls of his characters that really makes The Shasht War such a remarkable read.  Exciting, poignant, beautiful, and increasingly philosophical, The Shasht War surpasses every other work of fantasy I have read since Tolkien's The Lordof the Rings.	2004-01-24
821924:US	53016962	R7SG8PPOC1X89	0451457722	471562141	The Ancient Enemy: The First Book of Arna	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of the most impressive fantasy novels I have ever read	Christopher Rowley's The Ancient Enemy: The First Book of Arna is a work of masterful fantasy at its very best.  What begins as a story of one character's personal journey from youth to manhood evolves into an epic tale of warfare, bravery, and survival.  The writing is magnificent throughout, thoroughly captivating the reader and drawing him completely in to the world Rowley has created.  In the land of Arna, man is a distant legend who has not been seen for thousands of years.  In this world, mots and mors (monkey-like beings) live a life of peace and harmony alongside one another, enjoying the benefits of a rich, intelligent, and highly spiritual culture.  Awful stories are told of Man the Cruel, who poisoned the land and died out long, long ago in the early mists of time.  A mysterious race of ancient scholars called the Assenzi oversees the workings of the politics and economies of the various villages in Arna, working to maintain social and environmental balance in all things.  Such things as war and slavery mean nothing to these people, but things change in a hurry when Man the Cruel suddenly returns and immediately sets out to annihilate the lowly \\"monkeys\\" they encounter in their effort to colonize this verdant new land.<br />The main protagonist in the story is Thru Gillo, a mot whose dreams of taking a wife and starting a new life on his own farm are shattered when he finds his beloved consorting with another man, one who - unlike Thru - is wealthy .  In an effort to get past the heartache this causes him, Thru makes the journey to Highnoth in the northern mountains to study under the wise Assenzi.  Here he learns much about the Spirit, history, and life in general.  He also begins developing a remarkable talent for mat weaving, a skill he chooses for his livelihood when he later settles in the village of Dronned.  It is here that he meets and falls in love with a modern young mor named Nuza, a gymnast with a traveling troupe of performers.  Thru faces many setbacks at this particular time in his life, most of them spearheaded by his sworn enemy (the man who stole his first love away from him), but his spiritual training in Highnoth serves him well in overcoming all obstacles.  This first half of the book is a very personal story that takes us far into the mind of Thru and paints a vivid picture of the vibrant world in which he lives.<br />Thru's happy new life comes to an abrupt end, though, when he and Nuza are among the first mots and mors to discover a tranquil coastal village in fiery ruins.  A mound of decapitated heads by the waterfront reveals the horrible truth that the villagers were not only slaughtered but were eaten by their attackers.  One of the few survivors of the carnage delivers the unbelievable news that Man the Cruel still lives and has now returned to the land of Arna.  The personal aspects of Thru's story soon fall by the wayside as the final section of the novel concentrates on the preparation and beginning of war between the mots and the destructive forces of man.  At the same time, we are presented with the story of Simona, a young lady whose world in the human city of Shasht was suddenly ruined when her family was ordered by the emperor to accompany the colonists sailing out of the resource-drained Shasht to colonize a new land across the seas.  The story as told from Simona's viewpoint makes for a very insightful read, for through her we are given personal and meaningful viewpoints of both the human culture she has come to question and grow ashamed of as well as the previously peaceful mot society she comes to respect and care for.  Fighting a war for nothing short of survival, the mots quickly learn from their early losses and really take the battle to Man when his forces attempt to establish a landing site.  The second half of this novel is incredibly exciting, filled with truly remarkable accounts of fierce fighting and heroism on the field of battle.<br />The Ancient Enemy numbers among the best fantasy books I have ever read, and Rowling's descriptions of the bloody battles between man and mot are so vivid and realistic that I felt like an actual observer of the events.  Thru Gillo is a fascinating character, and the emotions and intense conflicts that populate the pages of this novel are truly gripping.  Best of all, this novel is only the beginning of a series, one which promises to furnish untold riches and joys to the reader who enters the vivid world borne of Rowland's imagination.rs among the best fantasy books I have ever read, and Rowling's descriptions of the bloody battles between man and mot are so vivid and realistic that I felt like an actual observer of the events.  Thru Gillo is a fascinating character, and the emotions and intense conflicts that populate the pages of this novel are truly gripping.  Best of all, this novel is only the beginning of a series, one which promises to furnish untold riches and joys to the reader who enters the vivid world borne of Rowland's imagination.	2004-01-18
823314:US	53016962	R1J6X1M1JEBGY1	0441010814	428497699	The Gathering Dark (Peter Octavian)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Shadow Saga enters a new dimension	Bram Stoker Award winner Christopher Golden brought a new twist to the vampire legend in his series of books dubbed The Shadow Saga.  In The Gathering Dark, set ten years after the events of the third Shadows Saga novel, a much-changed Peter Octavian finds himself reluctantly facing the biggest challenge of his life.  By this time, the whole world knows that vampires, or Shadows, exist and that Peter was once their leader.  He taught them the truth of their existence, exposing all of the lies that the Catholic Church had long ago instilled in their minds.  A great war was fought between the Shadows and a secret society inside the Church, leaving many vampires dead and the Church itself all but destroyed.  In the process, the Gospel of Shadows was destroyed, robbing mankind of its only means for keeping previously unimaginable monsters and demons at bay.  As this novel begins, the world of man comes under attack, with city after city ostensibly sucked into a layer of hell itself.  The reconstituted church in America is working feverishly to regain the knowledge contained in the lost Gospel of Shadows, but earth's best and only hope in this new unimaginable war is Peter Octavian.<br />Having forsaken his vampire existence, Octavian is now a normal human being.  His desire for a human life, though, has left him wanting something, and he has retreated into a solitary existence.  He is far from defenseless, though, as his history plus a tough thousand-year sojourn in Hell have made him the world's most powerful mage.  As dire events begin to unfold, Peter joins with a remarkable set of individuals to save the world from total destruction at the hands of powerful demons assaulting the earth in ever-growing numbers.  His two greatest allies come to be Kuromaku, a vampire brother, and Keomany, an earthwitch whose powerful bond with the natural magic of earth itself proves invaluable.  Father Jack Devlin, a priest who goes against the wishes of his bishop to aid Octavian in his quest to rid the world of demonic infection, is a singular character of great importance, while two very special human females give the Shadows reason to fight for a world which still sees vampires as an abomination.  The presentation and evolution of the characters is well done, filling these pages with a sense of humanity without which such a battle as that described herein is meaningless.<br />I have to admit that it took a while for The Gathering Dark to light a fire in my imagination.  The early parts of the novel are sometimes slow of pace and shift back and forth between characters in a sometimes disconcerting manner.  The form of the demonic manifestations is also fairly extreme and hard to accept.  Then you have Peter and his allies finding nebulous ways to enter the hidden realms and return with their lives intact.  The magic that Octavian often calls into being is wholly unbelievable but certainly mage-worthy, while the remarkable abilities that Golden gives to his vampires pushes the envelope much farther than I would prefer to see it go.  Add to this an earthwitch who can use Mother Nature herself as a force of protection as well as a potent weapon, and you have an extreme fantasy hard to embrace.<br />The second half of the novel recharges the batteries of Golden's fiction quite nicely, though.  It no longer matters how unbelievable the situations are at this point, as you become ever more drawn into worry and care for these characters risking their lives and souls for a fight they may well not be able to win.  The last hundred pages represent an extended climax of events, with Golden turning the crank of the suspense meter slowly but steadily.  Emotional conflict blends with painful endurance and unparalleled bravery to capture your heart and mind, and each page gets easier to turn as you yearn for the ultimate resolution to this unholy drama.<br />Looking back on the book as a whole, I do not consider The Gathering Dark a great read, as it exhibits a number of weaknesses that made it difficult for me to fully commit myself to it.  Golden does imbue his vampires with a complexity you won't find in many a vampire novel, but this can be a double-edged sword.  As much as I like vampires of a most exotic and unusual breed, some of the abilities of Golden's Shadows just exceed my mind's willingness to blindly accept what I am reading, and this diminishes my enjoyment of the novel.  Still, there is certainly originality and literary talent contained within each of Golden's pages, and any fan of vampire fiction will doubtless appreciate the chance to explorer the decidedly dark world of this author's creation.ts a number of weaknesses that made it difficult for me to fully commit myself to it.  Golden does imbue his vampires with a complexity you won't find in many a vampire novel, but this can be a double-edged sword.  As much as I like vampires of a most exotic and unusual breed, some of the abilities of Golden's Shadows just exceed my mind's willingness to blindly accept what I am reading, and this diminishes my enjoyment of the novel.  Still, there is certainly originality and literary talent contained within each of Golden's pages, and any fan of vampire fiction will doubtless appreciate the chance to explorer the decidedly dark world of this author's creation.	2004-01-17
828406:US	53016962	R1H8WYA5GLBRQ4	0684852586	524319009	Invasion of the Body Snatchers	Books	4	11	14	N	N	There is no more dangerous enemy than the enemy within	2004 marks the 50th anniversary of this classic science fiction novel's publication, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers remains firmly entrenched in pop culture and continues to exert a significant influence on the writers and filmmakers of today.  Everyone has heard of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, no less than three film adaptations of the story have been produced, and the book itself remains in print and will surely remain so for the foreseeable future.  What makes this story so popular?  The answer to this question isn't so simple.  While I think the novel is a thoroughly good, gripping read, there are a few elements of the plot and premise that I find fault with.  In the grand scheme of things, these issues have little impact on the story, but I do believe that Finney's novel is not perfect.<br />Of course, this is a story borne out of a culture of the 1950s seemingly obsessed (at least Hollywood was) with the idea of aliens coming to earth and, in most scenarios, arriving with hostile intentions.  &quot;Aliens attack&quot; books and movies were a dime a dozen in those days, and most of them became variations on the same theme.  The stories were new, but the ideas were well-established, going back at least as far as H.G. Wells' The War of the Worlds.  Finney's premise was different than most, and it drew strength not only from its originality but from the political atmosphere of the time.  America became quite paranoid in the decade after World War II; the Red Scare had many people observing their neighbors and associates and sometimes wondering if they might actually be Communists.  America was preoccupied for some time with the dangers of an invisible, insidious threat within the nation's very midst.  Invasion of the Body Snatchers played upon and drew from this type of internal self-doubt and paranoia, and I believe that is its true secret of success.<br />Finney's &quot;aliens&quot; didn't blast down from the heavens and immediately begin attacking human beings; instead, they arrived silently and secretly - in the very midst of what was unassuming, small-town America, in the form of giant pods.  Reports of these pod landings were reported but largely ignored, allowing the spores of alien life to begin their work in secret.  The material inside the pods could completely replicate any life form, and thus was born the first &quot;changed&quot; human being.  This &quot;new&quot; person looked and acted completely like the original and went about living that person's normal, every day life.  The number of changed individuals quickly grew as each day passed.  A few people began to sense that one or more of their friends or loved ones was somehow different, but it was all but impossible to prove such a thing to themselves, let alone others.  Dr. Miles Bennell, the story's narrator, spoke to several such patients and dismissed their claims as some sort of psychological delusions - at first.  His eyes were opened to the truth only when a friend chanced upon a developing replacement body in his home, and by this time virtually the whole town had been changed.  Bennell and three other &quot;survivors&quot; were alone, trapped among friends who were no longer themselves, and their growing paranoia soon metastasized into true fright.<br />What could be more unsettling than the fear that your neighbor, your co-worker, even your own spouse, parent, or child was no longer the person you had known all your life?  Anyone and everyone was a potential threat, a secret agent conspiring with others to assimilate you, to rob you of everything you value most in life.  External threats and the fears they invoke can be dealt with, set aside for short periods of time; nuclear attack is a horrifying nightmare, but it does not prevent you from leading your normal life in the present.  The enemy within is always the most insidious threat, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers is the very embodiment of this most terrifying of fears.n beings; instead, they arrived silently and secretly - in the very midst of what was unassuming, small-town America, in the form of giant pods.  Reports of these pod landings were reported but largely ignored, allowing the spores of alien life to begin their work in secret.  The material inside the pods could completely replicate any life form, and thus was born the first &quot;changed&quot; human being.  This &quot;new&quot; person looked and acted completely like the original and went about living that person's normal, every day life.  The number of changed individuals quickly grew as each day passed.  A few people began to sense that one or more of their friends or loved ones was somehow different, but it was all but impossible to prove such a thing to themselves, let alone others.  Dr. Miles Bennell, the story's narrator, spoke to several such patients and dismissed their claims as some sort of psychological delusions - at first.  His eyes were opened to the truth only when a friend chanced upon a developing replacement body in his home, and by this time virtually the whole town had been changed.  Bennell and three other &quot;survivors&quot; were alone, trapped among friends who were no longer themselves, and their growing paranoia soon metastasized into true fright.<br />What could be more unsettling than the fear that your neighbor, your co-worker, even your own spouse, parent, or child was no longer the person you had known all your life?  Anyone and everyone was a potential threat, a secret agent conspiring with others to assimilate you, to rob you of everything you value most in life.  External threats and the fears they invoke can be dealt with, set aside for short periods of time; nuclear attack is a horrifying nightmare, but it does not prevent you from leading your normal life in the present.  The enemy within is always the most insidious threat, and Invasion of the Body Snatchers is the very embodiment of this most terrifying of fears.	2004-01-13
831432:US	53016962	R2GQ3YQJKKA0IX	0843951818	51383965	Blood Games	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A promising tale weakened by Laymon's usual faults	Richard Laymon had the dubious distinction of being an acclaimed American horror writer who never managed to make any serious inroads in America itself.  While Europe has been reading and enjoying Laymon for years, only recently have mass market editions of some of Laymon's earlier novels begun appearing here in the United States.  Unfortunately, Laymon himself is no longer with us to see America finally begin to acknowledge him, as he died an untimely death in 2001.  This is the third Laymon novel I've read, and I have to say I enjoyed it much more than I did his novels Bite and One Rainy Night.  The story is interesting and fast-paced, Laymon's decision to use flashbacks at critical points of the drama seemed very effective, and my anticipation to finish the novel never really dimmed.  Still, though, the novel suffers from some of Laymon's traditional faults.<br />The setup for the story isn't bad at all.  Five best friends from college made a vow to get together for a week every year and continue the wild adventures they had back in college.  It's an odd quintet, really: Vivian the gorgeous model, Abilene the most rational of the group, Finley the filmmaker with her constant video camera, Cora the strong girl of the group, and the overweight horror fan Helen.  It is Helen's turn to select this year's adventure, and she can't wait to get her friends out to the isolated Totem Pole Lodge and tell them the story of the unsolved mass murder that took place there a number of years earlier.  A couple of the young women aren't too enthused about staying in the creepy, deserted lodge, especially after they hear the story of how locals in the hills slaughtered everyone in the lodge some time back, but they decide to at least stick it out for one night.  They enjoy spending time in the hot springs underneath the lodge, but things start to get a little unnerving when they figure out that someone else has been there with them at some point.  When they then discover that the car keys have been lost, they decide to camp out in the woods, search for the keys in the morning, and then get out of Dodge.  Such an uneventful ending is of course not going to happen here.  Nope, Death comes calling, and the girls find themselves in a fight for their very survival.<br />I enjoyed the first half of this novel quite a bit; there's probably too much dialogue, but the girls were certainly interesting, and the tales of their college day exploits are actually quite amazing.  When sinister things begin happening, though, their actions, responses, and much of their dialogue really don't ring true for the situation in which they find themselves, and they adopt courses of action that almost defy logic.  Then there is the nudity issue.  When the girls arrive and check out the hot springs, they strip down to bathing suits and then forego clothes all together.  OK.  As things keep happening and the dream week with the girls turns into a nightmare, they continue shedding clothes.  Do women in their 20s make a habit of going nude whenever they're together?  Sometimes they put their clothes back on, but this just seems to be a ploy designed to let Laymon to go on and on about how their wet clothes rub against their bare skin and the like.  At a certain point, the constant emphasis on the girl's nudity and bodies grows old.  If these girls existed in real life, I would know more about their bodies than they do.  This overemphasis on nude female bodies makes the novel seem longer than it probably should be, and the later descriptions of the group's past experiences takes something funny and risqu&eacute; and turn it into something silly, immature, and downright objectionable at times.  I found my connection to the characters fading when it should have been rising, and this is the main fault I find with this otherwise enjoyable read.  By the time I reached the climax of the action, I cared about these characters much less than I did earlier in the book, and this took a little something away from a perfectly acceptable but less than shocking d&eacute;nouement.  I'll keep reading Laymon, but I fear the man's overemphasis on sex may have kept him from ever reaching his true potential as a writer.little something away from a perfectly acceptable but less than shocking dnouement.  I'll keep reading Laymon, but I fear the man's overemphasis on sex may have kept him from ever reaching his true potential as a writer.	2004-01-11
835276:US	53016962	R2PK9LYSTZF1ZN	030768640X	993378317	Benji the Detective	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In search of Sweetie-Peetie	This is a wonderful little Whitman book published in 1978.  It features a very good story by Jean Lewis alongside beautiful color illustrations by Werner Willis.  The story takes place a few years after the events of the original Benji feature film, as Paul and Cindy Chapman are now teenagers; Benji and Tiffany haven't changed a bit, though.  Now everyone knows that Benji has always enjoyed chasing Mrs. Finster's cat, and everyone pretty much knows how much Sweetie-Peetie actually enjoys being chased.  Now Sweetie-Peetie has disappeared, however, and Mrs. Finster is blaming Benji for scaring her away.  With his sterling reputation on the line, Benji must assume the role of detective and find his feline friend.<br />Whitman books were a delightful part of my childhood in the 1970s, never failing to put out children's books of high quality.  The story and illustrations here are excellent, bringing Benji and Tiffany to colorful life yet again to delight children of all ages.	2004-01-08
835320:US	53016962	R3HAFXX6JRI4RL	042504095X	562078272	Shock 1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thirteen classic Matheson short stories from the 1950s	Shock I consists of &quot;thirteen tales to thrill and terrify&quot; from the brilliant mind of Richard Matheson.  Originally published with the title Shock! in 1961, the short stories collected here all date back to the 1950s (1953-1959, to be exact) and possess much of the offbeat brilliance that makes Matheson, when he is in top form, one of the most formidable authors in the horror/science fiction genre.  Matheson's specialty is the introduction of the impossible and the outr into ordinary life, and each of these stories seems to take place in a world that is slightly warped in one way or another; perhaps the term &quot;paranoid fiction&quot; best represents the types of stories you will find in this out of print yet exceedingly impressive short story collection.<br />Children of Noah leads off the baker's dozen of stories, and it has what I call a slightly Lovecraftian feel to it, as it explains why you do not want to go speeding through a certain sparsely populated Maine township in the middle of the night.  It is followed by Lemmings, by far the shortest of these stories and, to me, the least impressive.  The Splendid Source prepares us for the stories to come; this somewhat facetious tale leads us in search of the source of the world's dirty jokes; as the protagonist declaims, the same jokes appear everywhere, but no one knows who originated them.  This type of skewed viewpoint of the world represents one side of the foundation of Matheson's unique vision.  Paranoia truly rules the day in a number of the remaining tales.  A crippled elderly lady is haunted and increasingly terrified by a series of mysterious phone calls in Long Distance Call.  Legion of Plotters is a story that truly connected with me; many little things that others do in the course of each day sometimes drive me up the wall; thus I can identify with the protagonist of this tale who comes to believe that there is indeed a conspiracy afoot to drive him insane.  Death Ship serves up a different variant of paranoia, this time in a science fiction setting - imagine landing on an alien planet and discovering wreckage containing your very own quite dead bodies.  The Edge travels far into The Twilight Zone territory with its doppelganger motif, while The Distributor gives us a flip side look at a community that should be paranoid but is not.  Mantage falls in the category of &quot;be careful what you wish for,&quot; doing a remarkably effective job of showing just how short life can be.    <br />One For the Books is a story that might be familiar to many science fiction fans.  I know it has been adapted for television at least once.  In this story, an elderly janitor wakes up one day speaking perfectly fluent French and quickly proceeds to learn just about everything there is to know - the only things he does not know are what this strange new knowledge means and what purpose it is supposed to serve.  This really is a wonderful collection of stories.  Lemmings, Dance of the Dead, and The Creeping Terror seem less effective than the other ten tales, but even these three offer interesting takes on life that few other authors have provided glimpses of.  The Creeping Terror actually strikes me as an acerbically witty bit of satire, as it shows what might happen if Los Angeles really and truly took over the country.  Overall, Shock I is vintage Richard Matheson from start to finish, and these are stories that, in one sense, grow ever more meaningful as time moves on and leaves many a person trying to figure out what exactly is real in this increasingly baffling world.	2004-01-08
837948:US	53016962	RPO8SGXXHT17V	0590315471	719210523	Benji Takes a Dive at Marineland	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How Benji became the world's first scuba diving dog	Benji's amazing exploits in his feature films are well known, but I wonder how many people are aware of the fact that Benji was the first dog to ever scuba dive.  It happened in 1981, and this book by Rita Golden Gelman describes all of the action featured in the Benji television special Benji Takes a Dive at Marineland.  Joe Camp was well-known for his crazy ideas; no one thought he could make a movie that told the story from a dog's point of view, but thanks to Benji he did just that in 1973.  Over the ensuing years, Benji had proven he could do pretty much anything asked of him by his much-loved owner and trainer Frank Inn.  The real challenge lay in figuring out how to pull the whole project off in the first place.  You can't just run out and pick up scuba gear designed for a dog; scuba gear producers wouldn't even entertain the idea of designing and making gear for a dog, not even Benji.  Fortunately, Joe Camp's own scuba diving instructor also worked as an industrial engineer, and he agreed to work on the problem.  Eventually, a special bubble and jacket were made for America's most huggable hero, and the stage was set for a truly memorable television special.<br />Gelman does a great job of explaining the process by which Frank Inn got Benji accustomed to wearing his customized scuba gear and swimming underwater in a backyard pool.  Then she covers the evolution of the television special from inception to completion.  Scuba diving was only one of the amazing things Benji was called upon to do in his visit to Marineland.  He had to perform with the dolphins, climb and dive from a fourteen foot ladder, and - incredibly - sit still while a dolphin leapt into the air and snagged a dead fish he was holding in his mouth.  Clearly, though, the highlight of the show was the scuba diving, which Benji executed perfectly.  He was actually swimming in a tank holding sea turtles, barracuda, and even small sharks, so this was by no means a danger-free stunt for the heroic little guy.<br />This book makes for a great companion piece to the actual video special.  The details of Benji's incredible feats at Marineland are fascinating, and the text is complemented by diagrams of Benji's bubble and jacket alongside a number of pictures of Benji's training and actual performance.  An inset of color pictures really captures many of the big moments in vivid detail.  Benji truly could do anything, and this book proves it.little guy.  <br />This book makes for a great companion piece to the actual video special.  The details of Benji's incredible feats at Marineland are fascinating, and the text is complemented by diagrams of Benji's bubble and jacket alongside a number of pictures of Benji's training and actual performance.  An inset of color pictures really captures many of the big moments in vivid detail.  Benji truly could do anything, and this book proves it.	2004-01-06
840760:US	53016962	R37JMPIKGV9VFM	006061692X	770626041	The laughing Savior: The discovery and significance of the Nag Hammadi gnostic library	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Dated yet still interesting look at the Nag Hammadi codices	John Dart's The Laughing Savior, published in 1976, offers a good summary of what was known about the codices discovered near Nag Hammadi, Egypt soon after World War II.  These ancient documents consisted largely of Gnostic writings that had not seen the light of day in some 1600 years; the Christian church had declared the Gnostics heretics at the end of the second century after Christ, and the vast majority of scholarly knowledge on this important religious movement consisted primarily of written condemnations from the pens of early Church fathers.  It took some thirty years for the contents of the Nag Hammadi library to make their way into the hands of most religious scholars and the public at large; this book describes the history of the codices and then offers a summation of important themes and ideas expressed in those documents.<br />I was primarily interested in this book for its discussion of the mysterious discovery of the codices and the excessive delay involved in imparting the contents of these highly important writings to the world.  More information has become available on these subjects in the years since Dart's book, but his discussion of historical archaeology at work and the vicissitudes of gaining access to invaluable artifacts in Egypt during an era of periodic warfare and frequent government turmoil prove very interesting.<br />Dart spends some time discussing theories on the origins of Gnosticism, devoting a good deal of time to evidence of Judaism's influence on the movement.  Interestingly, he never really describes the Gnostics as on offshoot of Christianity, but of course there was much research still to be done when he wrote this book.  Dart then goes on to discuss a number of themes and issues addressed in the Nag Hammadi manuscripts.  These consist mainly of the more controversial ideas contained within the material - alternate takes on the creation story and the Great Flood, arguments that Israel's God was actually a false god and that the serpent in Eden was actually an agent of the supreme deity, references to statements of Jesus that are not recorded in the New Testament (much of which consisted of &quot;secret&quot; knowledge), and theological arguments that go to the heart of Gnosticism.  Dart was not a theologian but a religion news reporter, so this is a book written primarily for laymen rather than scholars - it is in fact one of the first of its kind to address the subject of these ancient texts.  Of further help for readers, especially at that particular time when the full texts had not yet been published in translation, was an appendix, written by James Brashler, consisting of a summary of each of the ancient codices discovered at Nag Hammadi.<br />The title of this book, I might add, is taken from one of the more controversial aspects of these Gnostic texts.  At least some Gnostics did not believe Jesus really died on the cross - instead, they believed Jesus separated his spiritual self from his physical body at that time, and according to a couple of Gnostic texts He existed above or manifested himself beside one of his disciples laughing at the ignorance of the people who believed they were actually putting him to death.  Such Gnostic beliefs about the virgin birth and the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus did much to cause the movement to be branded as heretical by the early orthodox Christian church.at the serpent in Eden was actually an agent of the supreme deity, references to statements of Jesus that are not recorded in the New Testament (much of which consisted of &quot;secret&quot; knowledge), and theological arguments that go to the heart of Gnosticism.  Dart was not a theologian but a religion news reporter, so this is a book written primarily for laymen rather than scholars - it is in fact one of the first of its kind to address the subject of these ancient texts.  Of further help for readers, especially at that particular time when the full texts had not yet been published in translation, was an appendix, written by James Brashler, consisting of a summary of each of the ancient codices discovered at Nag Hammadi. <br />The title of this book, I might add, is taken from one of the more controversial aspects of these Gnostic texts.  At least some Gnostics did not believe Jesus really died on the cross - instead, they believed Jesus separated his spiritual self from his physical body at that time, and according to a couple of Gnostic texts He existed above or manifested himself beside one of his disciples laughing at the ignorance of the people who believed they were actually putting him to death.  Such Gnostic beliefs about the virgin birth and the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus did much to cause the movement to be branded as heretical by the early orthodox Christian church.	2004-01-05
841273:US	53016962	R1LIE2K66O5X2L	0590315048	634057272	Benji at Work	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An intimate look at the dog behind the phenomenon	Anyone who has ever seen a Benji movie cannot help but wonder how in the world a dog can display a range of acting skills most human actors could never hope to rival.  Benji at Work does much to answer such questions.  Rita Golden Gelman takes us from the backyard training area of Benji's owner and best friend Frank Inn to the sets of his incredible movies, giving us an incredible glimpse into a remarkable relationship and great insight into Benji's training.  Gelman explains in some detail just how Frank Inn goes about getting Benji to perform so many incredible scenes, introducing us to such special Benji assistants as Frank's wife Juanita, Jackie the cat, and Benji's niece BB, each of whom have an important role to play in Benji's success as an actor.  Both dog and trainer work incredibly hard to get Benji ready; this includes acclimatizing the dog star to bright lights and crowds, learning new actions to perform, and establishing a level of verbal communication that allows Benji to run through a given scene blindfolded (literally, as Benji had his own custom-made blindfold for use in his training).<br />This wonderfully rich book includes pages and pages of intimate photos of America's best-loved mutt and his best friends (both human and animal), including a special section of color photographs.  In addition to shots from his movies, you get a number of photographs from Benji's extensive travels all around the world to meet and greet his fans.  As an added bonus, you also get a section of special facts about the world's most huggable hero.  The book focuses on the second Benji (the daughter of Higgins, the original Benji) who starred in For the Love of Benji and the third and fourth Benji movies that were made after this book was published.  I would have liked to see a little more information about the original Benji in this book, but notwithstanding this Benji at Work is the best source I know of for information on the dog behind the worldwide phenomenon that is Benji.is Benji.	2004-01-04
841769:US	53016962	R1Z0DU5PR36854	B00005XK34	884918969	Joe Camp's The phenomenon of Benji	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful tribute by Benji's owner/trainer/best friend	This book can be seen as the ultimate Benji tribute, primarily because it was written by Frank Inn, Benji's owner, trainer, and friend.  Benji was a scared little six-week old puppy when Frank Inn saw him at an Animal Shelter and literally saved his life.  This book briefly recounts Benji's road to stardom and features a number of pictures of Benji in a variety of settings.  Frank Inn was already a well-known animal trainer, and Benji (who was originally named Higgins) turned out to be the smartest animal Inn had ever worked with.  Benji was so talented that fame basically found him on two occasions.  On the set of Beverly Hillbillies, Paul Henning just so happened to see Inn (who supplied some of Ellie Mae's critters for the show) working with Benji and selected him as the dog for his upcoming series Petticoat Junction.  After seven years on television, Benji retired and began leading a normal dog's life.  Then rookie filmmaker Joe Camp came calling to ask for Frank Inn's help in making a movie that would tell the story from a dog's point of view, seemingly a crazy idea to many.  Walking back to his car, Camp looked over and spotted Benji resting in the shade; he knew then and there that he had the canine actor he was looking for.<br />There is at least one picture included on every page: Benji as a puppy, shots from Petticoat Junction and the first two Benji films, private and behind-the-scenes shots of Benji, photos of Benji and some of his many fans taken during his national and worldwide tours, and photos taken on the night of the world premiere of the original Benji film.  Best of all, though, you get shots and photos from the big night when Benji became just the second animal (the first was Lassie) to be inducted into the Animal Actors Hall of Fame; this is basically the most prestigious award possible for an animal and his trainer.<br />This isn't a very lengthy book by any means, and none of the many photos are in color, but Frank Inn's love for Benji and the amount of satisfaction he felt knowing how many lives Benji had brightened in locations all over the globe are palpable and obviously from the heart.  No Benji collection is complete without at least one copy of The Phenomenon of Benji.nd the amount of satisfaction he felt knowing how many lives Benji had brightened in locations all over the globe are palpable and obviously from the heart.  No Benji collection is complete without at least one copy of The Phenomenon of Benji.	2004-01-04
842449:US	53016962	R1UE88Q6DAD6N6	0553152319	452387987	For the Love of Benji	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good read that doesn't quite capture all the film's magic	I. F. Love wrote this novelization of For the Love of Benji, the second of Joe Camp's wonderful Benji feature films.  This time around, Benji finds himself an unwilling pawn in a high stakes game of espionage and intrigue.  The Chapman family vacation in Greece turns out to be a taxing time indeed for America's favorite little mutt.  First, he's drugged and has something tattooed on his paw, then he finds himself lost and alone half a world away from home.  Desperate to find his family in this new and unsettling environment, Benji also has to deal with a set of bad guys trying to nab and/or kill him, avoid several bullets (and every Benji lover knows how much Benji hates guns), evade a number of car chases, find food and water, escape the jaws of a vicious Doberman, and basically just survive and keep searching without losing hope.  It is a wonderful, action-packed story that doesn't play quite as well in book form as it does in the movie itself.  All of the extended chase scenes seem to come and go too quickly in this novelization, robbing the reader of some of the suspense that the film builds in a truly powerful way.  One must see all of Benji's ordeals in order to connect completely on an emotional level with the story.  The book also can't come close to capturing the depth of emotion, rational thinking, and truly remarkable courage of this special dog who refuses to give up in his efforts to find his family.  I. F. Love does a great job summarizing the events that take place in the movie, and this is actually a very good book that many a child should love reading, but in this case the true magic of Benji can only be experienced to the fullest degree by watching the film.	2004-01-04
843413:US	53016962	R1Z4X9SYWD18FJ	0307118711	144815308	Joe Camp's Benji and the tornado (A Golden look-look book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wherever danger looms, the heroic Benji is there	This colorful Golden Look-Look Book, written by Gina Ingoglia and illustrated by Barbara Schaare, finds Joe Camp's Benji temporarily staying with a farm family while his own human family is out of town.  Benji loves the outdoors and is just getting to know some of the farm's interesting animals when trouble approaches in the form of a dangerous tornado.  Benji senses the danger immediately and goes to work trying to get all the animals to safety.  Young Peter Martin's very own heifer, Taffy, is so scared she won't budge from her spot by the fence, though.  If Taffy is to be saved, Benji is going to have to draw upon his supreme canine intelligence and self-sacrificing heroism to come up with a plan.<br />Benji and the Tornado is not a particularly exciting story, but the design of the book itself is quite vivid and impressive.  Schaare is a talented illustrator, but I don't think she captures the essence of Benji the way Werner Willis does in other Benji books of this type.  The color illustrations should prove of great interest to many a child, though, as they feature a number of barnyard animals and help make a rather unexciting story more enjoyable than it would be otherwise.	2004-01-03
843620:US	53016962	RPZNK20L6VYBZ	0515057495	456584067	Benji	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A perfect adaptation of this most remarkable of films	Allison Thomas really did a wonderful job with this novelization of Joe Camp's original screenplay of the movie Benji.  Much of the magic of the greatest family film of all time is translated remarkably well into these pages.  While mere words on a page can't capture the depth of emotion and intelligence Benji expressed visually in the film, the spirit, pathos, fright, wonder, and excitement of Benji's heroic adventure are all here.  There is no embellishment to the story, as this is a truly faithful adaptation of what you will see in the film, but it is well worth reading.  Children in particular may attain a better understanding of certain aspects of the film by reading this book or having it read to them.  I should emphasize the fact that this does make a wonderful children's book; it is by no means written \\"down to\\" children at all.  Benji is a gift to children (and adults) of all ages.<br />The story itself revolves is a tale of adventure, love, friendship, sacrifice, and incredible courage, all viewed through the eyes of a very special dog .  Benji has many friends all over town, but he calls home an old abandoned house that has stood vacant for at least forty years.  He enjoys his independence, though, and greets each day eagerly, always heading first to the Chapman house for breakfast with his special friends Paul and Cindy.  From out of the blue, though, Benji's life changes dramatically.  First he meets a little white dog, a pedigreed little cutie with class and charm; it's love at first sight for Benji, and he settles into a new life, one shared with little Tiffany.  Then a group of people invade his happy home, soon bringing in two kidnapped children who turn out to be Paul and Cindy Williams.  Only Benji can save the children, but he will have to risk everything he values the most in order to save the day.<br />Benji will forever be the world's most huggable hero, and he really was an important part of my childhood.  This story means a great deal to me, and I feel sure it will continue to touch the lives of all children who are fortunate enough to discover and come to love this most remarkable of canines.me, and I feel sure it will continue to touch the lives of all children who are fortunate enough to discover and come to love this most remarkable of canines.	2004-01-03
843732:US	53016962	R3E1FLXXWMG8BX	0307108260	762020937	Joe Camp's Benji: Fastest Dog in the West	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Benji shows his heroic stuff at the rodeo	When many of us think back to our childhoods, we remember many a wonderful visit to The World of Little Golden Books, and Joe Camp's Benji: Fastest Dog in the West numbers among the best of them.  In this canine adventure, written by Gina Ingoglia and illustrated by Werner Willis, Benji and Tiffany accompany the family to the rodeo (after the morning chase of Sweetie-Peetie the cat, of course) to watch Paul and Cindy compete in the calf-roping and steer riding events.  The kids lament the fact that the rodeo doesn't offer a contest for running dogs, but on this day Benji will get a chance to prove he is the fastest dog around when a child ambles out into the arena to see the clown, who is busy protecting a bull-riding cowboy.  With a mean Brahma bull casting his angry eyes on the child, the world's most huggable hero leaps into action once again.<br />Werner Willis is a great illustrator who really captures Benji's spirit in his colorful drawings, and this is a story sure to delight children for many years to come.  You just can't help loving that little dog.	2004-01-03
844856:US	53016962	R11HQ9VN7Y8PZ5	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A fascinating exploration of the social history of Satan	The Origin of Satan is a fascinating monograph that might best be considered a social history of the concept of Satan in the formative era of the early Christian Church.  The actual origin of Satan in terms of Lucifer's fall from grace is mentioned but is not specifically explored.  Instead, Pagels sets out to explore the evolution of early Christian conceptualizations of the ultimate adversary as an increasingly internal threat.  Israel had always retained a strong moral and ethnic identity as God's chosen people ever since God's promise to Abraham, but Jesus' ministry and the nascent Christian Church tore asunder this viewpoint and offered salvation to Gentiles as well as Jews; in the process, Israel, already occupied by foreign powers, became a house divided internally.  In this fractious atmosphere, &quot;the enemy within&quot; came to be seen as a more insidious threat than even the Roman occupiers by many early Christians.<br />The greatest strength of this book is Pagels' description of the historical and political atmosphere in which early Christianity developed and its influence on the writing of the Gospels and the movement's growing internalization of concepts of &quot;the adversary.&quot;  While my personal belief in the infallibility of the Gospels keeps me from reading as much into them as Pagels does and while I do not necessarily accept without question some of her &quot;facts&quot; in terms of the dates and authorship of the primary books in question, I am impressed by the logic and consistency of her presentation and principal arguments; what she says does indeed make sense.  I found myself taking copious notes on her chapters dealing with the writing of the Four Gospels and came away with a much greater understanding of the formative first two centuries of the Christian church.<br />The Origin of Satan basically follows the progression of the internalization of &quot;the enemy&quot; among early Christians; the enemy without has become the enemy within by the time of John's gospel.  The Essenes, seeing a cosmic war between the forces of God and those of Satan, were among the first group of Jews to withdraw from the larger Jewish community.  Mark, the earliest of the Gospels, likewise envisions a cosmic war between God's people and Satan's.  At the time Matthew was written, the Pharisees were seen as the chief rivals of the Christians and so the book of Matthew becomes to a degree a polemic between Jesus and the Pharisees.  Matthew reverses traditional roles to turn the outside entities of Israel's antiquity (such as the pharaoh) into intimate enemies existing within the Jewish community itself.  God's people have been split into opposing camps, those who accept Jesus and those who deny Him.  The Gospels of Matthew and Mark implicitly link Jesus' Jewish enemies with Satan; the Gospels of Luke and John state these charges outright.  Luke's Passion narrative casts all the blame for Jesus' arrest and execution on the Jewish community, deflecting guilt from the Romans.  Those who oppose Jesus perform the work of Satan on Earth, Luke argues.  John truly paints his portrait of Jesus and his execution in terms of a cosmic war between Good and Evil.  Unlike the other Gospels, John portrays the Jewish people as performing Satan's work for him.  Pagels concentrates on how John, much more aggressively than the other Gospels, associates the work of Satan with specific human opposition, implicating Judas Iscariot, then the Jewish authorities, and finally &quot;the Jews&quot; collectively.<br />By the time John's Gospel was written, Christianity had become largely a Gentile religious movement, and Pagels goes on to explore the spread of Christianity among Roman pagans in the following era.  Pagels argues that it was Christians' strong belief in Satan that made them so dangerous in the eyes of the Roman leadership; their teachings of a rebellion in Heaven between forces of light and forces of darkness was seen by many paganleaders as a means for justifying rebellion on earth against those they viewed as Jesus' enemies.  Pagels goes on to include a chapter describing the church's condemnation and eradication of dissidents within the Church itself - church leaders viewed the Gnostics as the supreme heretics, for through them Satan was seen as infiltrating the very heart of the Christian movement itself.<br />All in all, The Origin of Satan is a fascinating look at the evolution of Satan from a murky concept to the sustaining force that served to define Christianity as a movement.  Her look at the formative years of the Christian church demonstrates how &quot;the enemy without&quot; increasingly became &quot;the enemy within.&quot;  While some could argue that the early Christians shaped and evolved Satan to fit their own political and social purposes, Pagels never strays from the objective stance of the historian proper.  The book's title is something of a misnomer, as the true origin of Satan is not really investigated; instead, what this book provides is a penetrating examination of the way in which early Christianity's viewpoint of the ultimate adversary in an increasingly cosmic war between forces and good and evil shaped the very foundation of the Christian church in the volatile decades following the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ.gan leaders as a means for justifying rebellion on earth against those they viewed as Jesus' enemies.  Pagels goes on to include a chapter describing the church's condemnation and eradication of dissidents within the Church itself - church leaders viewed the Gnostics as the supreme heretics, for through them Satan was seen as infiltrating the very heart of the Christian movement itself.  <br />All in all, The Origin of Satan is a fascinating look at the evolution of Satan from a murky concept to the sustaining force that served to define Christianity as a movement.  Her look at the formative years of the Christian church demonstrates how &quot;the enemy without&quot; increasingly became &quot;the enemy within.&quot;  While some could argue that the early Christians shaped and evolved Satan to fit their own political and social purposes, Pagels never strays from the objective stance of the historian proper.  The book's title is something of a misnomer, as the true origin of Satan is not really investigated; instead, what this book provides is a penetrating examination of the way in which early Christianity's viewpoint of the ultimate adversary in an increasingly cosmic war between forces and good and evil shaped the very foundation of the Christian church in the volatile decades following the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ.	2004-01-02
845489:US	53016962	R2PBDZYPNGJTSJ	0439206634	762228668	Dear Mrs. LaRue: Letters from Obedience School (LaRue Books)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	I like Ike, and so will most children and their parents	When I came across this book, I knew I had to read it.  A dog writing letters home from dog obedience school?  How can this not be an enjoyable book?  Poor, misunderstood Ike has been sent off to the Igor Brotweiler Canine Academy by his harried owner Mrs. Gertrude R. LaRue.  Ike does what any dog would do in such a situation; he tries to make his owner feel so guilty about putting him there that she will come and get him.  He does have a point of sorts, as the straw that broke the camel's (or, in this case, Mrs. LaRue's) back has two very different sides to it.  As the days pass, Ike becomes defensive, then he changes tactics in an effort to show his owner how much she needs him back.  Will poor Ike ever see his home again?  Will he never again be able to munch on another one of Mrs. LaRue's apple pies?  Perish the thought.<br />This book is aimed at children four to eight years old, although parents and weird adults like me should also get a kick out of it.  The letters are funny, and one could - if one were so inclined - make an object lesson out of comparing Ike's situation with that of a misbehaving child, but the big sell here is really the pictures.  Each page is graced with vivid illustrations contrasting the reality of Ike's life at the Academy with the melodramatic visions of oppression and misery he tries to convey in his letters to Mrs. LaRue.  If you are looking for that special book to convince your young child that reading is fun, Dear Mrs. LaRue: Letters from Obedience School may well be that book.	2004-01-01
845752:US	53016962	R1OO5DQ8CGW28Z	1931081816	101727558	Rock Breaks Scissors Cut	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A promising story that doesn't quite pan out	David J. Schow is best known for coining the term &quot;splatterpunk&quot; to describe horror that is steeped in gore, but Rock Breaks Scissors Cut, his first published novel in ten years, sets a different course, attempting to delve into matters of life itself and its ultimate meaning.  The story shows great promise initially but seems to break down at the very end.<br />The story centers on the experiments of one Dr. Gold, who has received a great deal of funding for her experiments on the nature of dreams.  Three voluntary test subjects come in several times a week to be hooked up to fancy scientific equipment for the recording of data.  The three volunteers could hardly be more different.  Melinda is a shy, awkward woman with a quiet job in a bookstore, no social life outside the world of her pet cats, and almost nothing in the way of communications skills.  Jovana is a well-known model who hides a lot of insecurity and private pain underneath the face she shows so much of the world every day.  Gilbert is a journalist who writes about entertainment and popular culture, and there does not seem to be much substance to his character at all.  Initially, the three subjects leave the lab as they arrived, quite separately, but something strange takes place after one particular session.  While Gilbert is dreaming of Jovana, he has a juicy little encounter with Melinda, and events soon take on some wild turns.  Each character begins to become more aware of one another, and each takes drastic action of one sort or another on one significant day.  Melinda basically disappears in all but voice, but we follow Gilbert and Jovana through a series of mental perturbations as they seek to understand why they suddenly seem to know so many secret things about one another.  Gradually, the three subjects realize that they have all become linked in a very important, if not symbiotic way.  With Dr. Gold nowhere to be found, their journey leads them to stranger and stranger revelations, and it is here that the novel begins to crumble somewhat.  The manner in which these three characters come together is rather far-fetched, and the ultimate revelation about the true nature of the experiments really needed a lot more explanation and background if it were to have seemed remotely plausible.  I have to admit I was somewhat disappointed by the conclusion of what had seemed to be a quite promising novel.<br />Rock Breaks Scissors Cut is not a long novel by any means, stretching out no more than 140 pages.  I have not yet read any other of Schow's fictional stories and novels, so I cannot compare this novel to anything else he has written.  This just has the feel of a very long short story to me, though, as it lacks some of the filler material, contextualization, and character development that an effective novel would seem to require.  I'm not saying this is a bad book, by any means, as parts of the story are quite compelling and even insightful.  Schow definitely has talent, and I would very much like to sample more of his work in the future.and it is here that the novel begins to crumble somewhat.  The manner in which these three characters come together is rather far-fetched, and the ultimate revelation about the true nature of the experiments really needed a lot more explanation and background if it were to have seemed remotely plausible.  I have to admit I was somewhat disappointed by the conclusion of what had seemed to be a quite promising novel.<br />Rock Breaks Scissors Cut is not a long novel by any means, stretching out no more than 140 pages.  I have not yet read any other of Schow's fictional stories and novels, so I cannot compare this novel to anything else he has written.  This just has the feel of a very long short story to me, though, as it lacks some of the filler material, contextualization, and character development that an effective novel would seem to require.  I'm not saying this is a bad book, by any means, as parts of the story are quite compelling and even insightful.  Schow definitely has talent, and I would very much like to sample more of his work in the future.	2004-01-01
846286:US	53016962	R2IH4DY0PQVW30	0380790238	590166541	The X-Files Lexicon: X-References from Anti-Walton to Zuni	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Only for those who collect X-Files-related books	I have always been one of those obsessed X-Files fans who had to have everything I happened to come across relating to my favorite show.  The X-Files Lexicon certainly does not qualify as an invaluable reference guide.  It may prove slightly helpful to new fans that have just now begun watching the show in syndication or on DVD, but as long as you have actually watched or will watch the first three seasons of the show, the information in this book is really of little use.  On top of that, many of the listings included here feature in-jokes that you may not even understand until your viewing of all the actual shows is complete, by which point you won't need this book.  <br />The book is organized in three distinct sections.  The first and largest section is an alphabetical listing of important terms, places, and people.  Following this is a short summary of all the episodes of the first three seasons.  Additionally, you get a &quot;case file datebook,&quot; which features a few scribbled dates and notes on facsimile monthly planner pages.  Last and definitely least is a list of &quot;addresses&quot; which qualifies as overkill in my mind.  <br />I guess I'm saying this book isn't worth having unless you are an obsessive X-Files fans.  When your friends come over, you can point to The X-Files Lexicon as yet another of the many X-Files-related books in your collection, and that in and of itself is about the best use you will be able to come up with for it.	2004-01-01
848888:US	53016962	R2ZM8QSYPHZ628	0800627180	259286028	Mary Magdalene and Many Others: Women Who Followed Jesus	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A scholarly attempt to pierce the silence of women in the NT	Mary Magdalene and Others: Women Who Followed Jesus is a scholarly work; as a layman reading this book, I found myself in over my head on many occasions.  This is not a criticism of the book - frankly, I'm not really in a position to criticize the book at all.  The methodology at work here is quite foreign to me, so all I can really do is to give my own impressions of this book from a Christian layman's perspective.  Ricci attempts an exegesis of the silence of women in the Gospels, seeking to find traces of the invisible footsteps of women we can identify as having followed Jesus.  Her primary focus is on three verses to be found in Luke's Gospel (Luke 8:1-3) wherein three women are explicitly named (Mary Magdalene; Joanna, the wife of Herod's steward Chuza, and Susanna).  Through intense scrutinizing of these three verses (all the way down to the original Greek) and a detailed comparison with the mention of women in the other Synoptic gospels, the gospel of John, and to some degree the letters of Paul, Ricci attempts to identify the unspoken importance of women in Jesus' inner circle.<br />Certainly, Ricci has a tough row to hoe here.  She is searching for many things that are not explicitly addressed or even acknowledged, reading between the lines to some degree in pursuit of her goal.  I can't really follow some of her arguments, but a religious scholar would surely find a lot of data to analyze in these pages.  For myself, I did come away with a much deeper understanding of the life of women in Palestine at the time of Jesus; I had never really realized just how proscribed a life women led at this particular time and in this particular place - they were basically property oftentimes valued below slaves.  Jesus' acceptance of women around him and his own visible rejection of the lack of rights and opportunity for women strike a much stronger cord in me now; this knowledge also contributes to one's understanding of the outcry against Jesus' Gospel that ultimately led to his crucifixion and resurrection.  Among the important facts Ricci emphasizes are these: a group of women did follow Jesus from Nazareth all the way to Gethsemane, only women followers of Christ stayed and witnessed the crucifixion while the male disciples fled en masse, and women - Mary Magdalene in particular - were the first individuals to witness Christ after his resurrection and were specifically asked by him to go and proclaim the good news to the disciples (who did not believe what the women were telling them).  There may not be many references to women followers of Jesus in the New Testament, but Ricci draws out every bit of information and conjecture she can over the course of her study.<br />I would not really recommend this book to laymen because it is rigorous and complex.  If you are interested in the story of Mary Magdalene in particular, this really isn't a very good source to tap into for that information.  Certainly, one does learn a good bit about the controversial figure, but this is not really a book about Mary Magdalene at all - rather, Mary Magdalene and Others focuses on a detailed analysis of scripture in order to penetrate the silence concerning women in general.  I would also mention the fact that Ricci does not undertake a serious study of Gnostic texts in her research; she does refer to a few selected Gnostic texts toward the end of the book, but those interested in learning what the Gnostics thought and believed about women's role in the ministry and Mary Magdalene's significance in this respect would do well to look elsewhere.  This is an impressive book, but it takes a Bible scholar to truly understand and appreciate it, in my opinion.led to his crucifixion and resurrection.  Among the important facts Ricci emphasizes are these: a group of women did follow Jesus from Nazareth all the way to Gethsemane, only women followers of Christ stayed and witnessed the crucifixion while the male disciples fled en masse, and women - Mary Magdalene in particular - were the first individuals to witness Christ after his resurrection and were specifically asked by him to go and proclaim the good news to the disciples (who did not believe what the women were telling them).  There may not be many references to women followers of Jesus in the New Testament, but Ricci draws out every bit of information and conjecture she can over the course of her study.<br />I would not really recommend this book to laymen because it is rigorous and complex.  If you are interested in the story of Mary Magdalene in particular, this really isn't a very good source to tap into for that information.  Certainly, one does learn a good bit about the controversial figure, but this is not really a book about Mary Magdalene at all - rather, Mary Magdalene and Others focuses on a detailed analysis of scripture in order to penetrate the silence concerning women in general.  I would also mention the fact that Ricci does not undertake a serious study of Gnostic texts in her research; she does refer to a few selected Gnostic texts toward the end of the book, but those interested in learning what the Gnostics thought and believed about women's role in the ministry and Mary Magdalene's significance in this respect would do well to look elsewhere.  This is an impressive book, but it takes a Bible scholar to truly understand and appreciate it, in my opinion.	2003-12-30
849553:US	53016962	R35CFLZREVCL5	0974548006	966775088	Soccer Dreams: My True Adventure Following the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team, as a Fan and 12-Year Old Junior Reporter for the St. Petersburg ... History-Making 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An impressive and inspirational account of a dream come true	Imagine getting the chance to not only see your sports heroes play some of the biggest games of their lives but to also interview them for a series of articles to appear in a major newspaper; then imagine being one of the 90,185 fans in the Rose Bowl watching the U.S. National team win the 1999 world championship and having the privilege of joining other reporters in the locker room afterward.  Now imagine that all of these incredible dreams have come true for you as a twelve-year old young lady.  Soccer Dreams is the story of such a young lady's incredible adventure covering the road to the 1999 World Cup championship of women's soccer.<br />It is important to note that you do not need to be a soccer fan in order to enjoy this book.  I'm no soccer enthusiast by any means, but I enjoyed this book tremendously.  Soccer Dreams is a personal story of making one's dreams come true through hard work, dedication, and just a little bit of luck.  As such, it is an inspirational story that truly captivated me, and I found myself smiling much more than usual as I read Leah Lauber's account of how she made her own dreams come true.  Lauber is a talented young writer, and the sense of her own excitement and exuberant awe really leaps off the page at you.<br />This book is really a marvel to behold.  This is most remarkable given the fact that Soccer Dreams is in many ways a family project.  Unable to interest a commercial publisher in such a book from a twelve-year-old author, virtually the entire Lauber family came together to make this book yet another dream come true for this extraordinary young lady.  The story and many of its accompanying photographs are Leah's, but her father, a professional photographer, supplied more than two hundred impressive photographs of his own.  Page after page is filled with wonderful color photographs of women's soccer action, practice, and fan interaction alongside several great shots from the family's personal scrapbook.  This includes photos of the celebration over Mia Hamm's record-breaking 108th career goal and of the 1999 Women's World Cup championship game.  Even with all of the amazing photographs included here, though, the narrative by no means takes second place.<br />Lauber tells her story in a chronological fashion, beginning with the story of her own love for soccer as well as writing, then going on to describe just how this dream of hers became a reality.  She details her year as an X-Team reporter for the St. Petersburg Times and explains how this allowed her access to the national team then practicing in Florida, but this is just the beginning of her story.  Her X-Team media pass could get her into media-only events in Florida, but it took another impressive effort to win her a trip to the 1999 Women's World Cup championship match in Pasadena, California.  Her personal story is then augmented by an extended section of one-on-one interviews and quotes from almost every member of the team at a variety of venues and events over the course of the year.  There are pictures of Leah interviewing the mega-stars of the sport, high-fiving Mia Hamm after her record-breaking goal, and generally reveling in the adventure of a lifetime.<br />I believe Leah Lauber has accomplished some important goals in the writing of this book.  She has demonstrated how any individual, even a youngster, can make his/her dreams come true, and she has also helped further the cause of women's soccer and women's sports in general.  I went to UNC-Chapel Hill, so I know a tiny bit about women's soccer; thanks to Miss Lauber, I now know much more about the sport and can better appreciate the attributes and raw excitement of it from a fan's perspective.  Lauber makes you want to experience this sport for yourself, and I know this book would provide a tremendous incentive for young girls to learn and play the game themselves.  A sport needs true heroes, and Lauber has truly shown the women of the U.S. National Team to be heroesin every sense of the word.  Perhaps the biggest hero in these pages, however, is young Leah Lauber herself; this talented young author is living proof that you can indeed make your dreams come true.e heroes in every sense of the word.  Perhaps the biggest hero in these pages, however, is young Leah Lauber herself; this talented young author is living proof that you can indeed make your dreams come true.	2003-12-29
852005:US	53016962	R1OJI8Z8CJ4OKY	0345375513	812790902	The Venom Trees of Sunga	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting, but not one of de Camp's better novels	The Venom Trees of Sunga by Grand Master L. Sprague de Camp seems to lie along the border of not only science fiction and fantasy but of the traditional tale and its modern equivalent.  While the book is interesting and features some lively characters, I have to admit that I never felt myself fully immersed in the environment of Sunga, a region on the planet Kukulcan.  It is a purely alien environment, featuring exotic vegetation and an advanced form of reptilian life possessing a philosophy and lifestyle diametrically opposed to human life.  Actually, I should say Terran life, for the natives of this planet refer to themselves as human beings; visiting Terrans are the aliens on this world.  This novel features a typical de Camp hero, a scrawny, rather mousy scientist named Kirk Salazar who has come to Sunga in order to complete the research for his dissertation.  It is his intention to learn exactly how the planet's native kusis are able to survive in their native forest of venom trees - the nanshin trees squirts deadly acid on any other being that comes into contact with them.  As events unfold, the deadly venom of the nanshin trees comes to be the least of Salazar's concerns.<br />A number of unique characters place themselves in the way of scientific progress in the novel.  A famous representative of the Terran Gnostic religion, working in conjunction with a boorish, womanizing brute of a man, is scheming with the local High Chief Yaamo to cut the forests down and make way for an influx of Terrans on the planet.  The group of tourists Salazar has joined (as the cheapest way for him to get to Sunga to do his research) can be rather annoying in and of themselves, but the greatest danger comes from Alexis Ritter, a deadly young Terran who serves as the high priestess of a cult of Terrans up in the mountains.  Salazar is to have a number of unforgettable adventures with and on account of her.<br />The basic story itself proved rather boring at times, and it definitely seemed to go out with a whimper as opposed to a bang.  The heroic as well as morally questionable acts we find Salazar committing as conditions change do not quite fit with his supposed nature of a nave, overzealous scholar, leading me to look elsewhere for a source of true connection with the characters inhabiting this alien world.  The most interesting part of this particular novel, at least to me, is the race of &quot;human beings&quot; inhabiting the planet Kukulcan.  These reptilian natives are referred to as &quot;Kooks,&quot; and they are a fascinating race of beings.  They express emotions through color changes on the scales of their neck, obey a strong moral code far more noble than that of Terrans, and speak Terran in a clumsy manner that can be comical at times to the reader.  The book takes a while to get rolling, due largely to a tremendous amount of alien terms and names thrown at the reader in the opening pages, and the steam the narrative eventually manages to build up begins to fade long before the conclusion, making The Trees of Sunga an interesting but far from compelling read; certainly, it does not number among de Camp's more noteworthy novels.tely seemed to go out with a whimper as opposed to a bang.  The heroic as well as morally questionable acts we find Salazar committing as conditions change do not quite fit with his supposed nature of a nave, overzealous scholar, leading me to look elsewhere for a source of true connection with the characters inhabiting this alien world.  The most interesting part of this particular novel, at least to me, is the race of &quot;human beings&quot; inhabiting the planet Kukulcan.  These reptilian natives are referred to as &quot;Kooks,&quot; and they are a fascinating race of beings.  They express emotions through color changes on the scales of their neck, obey a strong moral code far more noble than that of Terrans, and speak Terran in a clumsy manner that can be comical at times to the reader.  The book takes a while to get rolling, due largely to a tremendous amount of alien terms and names thrown at the reader in the opening pages, and the steam the narrative eventually manages to build up begins to fade long before the conclusion, making The Trees of Sunga an interesting but far from compelling read; certainly, it does not number among de Camp's more noteworthy novels.	2003-12-27
852868:US	53016962	R3HFLU0PSAHH0D	0451209540	450762437	The Policy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	You're not in good hands with The Insurance Group	Bentley Little is a terrific writer who seems to have virtually patented his own special niche in the horror genre; his subject matter resonates with the reader on a very strong level, really drawing you into a world where a certain cockeyed corporate mutation is wreaking increasingly disturbing havoc on the local area.  Unfortunately, Little oftentimes proves incapable of pulling off a truly satisfying ending, and The Policy suffers from this one seemingly common affliction amongst his work.  A storyline that has remained tangible and credible in a weird sort of way in the face of growing surrealism and impossibility eventually falls into the pit of implausibility, marring an otherwise fine and somewhat addictive read.<br />In The Policy, Little has selected the insurance business as his source of otherworldly evil.  It's a choice that makes sense; virtually everyone hates having to deal with insurance companies and their increasingly silly demands, and I know I have had moments in life wherein I seriously wondered if insurance companies are not actual forces of evil in the world.  Even a quick Internet search will turn up untold numbers of insurance nightmares told by men and women used, abused, and even threatened by their insurance companies.  Thus, The Policy has at its source a storyline that readers will have no trouble accepting.  Our primary window on this world is Hunt Jackson, a man who moves back home to Tucson almost on a whim after his divorce.  He quickly sets out to find a job, gladly accepting a tree trimming position for which he is overqualified, and a place to settle down.  He gets reacquainted with an old childhood friend and his family, meets a special lady, and rapidly begins building a brand new life for himself.  The only thing between Hunt and a state of bliss is a series of mishaps and the disturbing insurance issues they give rise to.  Insurance phone representatives treat him with unbelievable disdain, the company refuses to pay for damages in many cases, and the actions they do at times take are little short of insane.  One day, a mild-mannered door-to-door insurance salesman pops by, and Hunt and his new wife soon find themselves transferring more and more of their insurance needs to this new salesman and The Insurance Group.  To say the salesman becomes a menace doesn't even begin to explain things.  It soon becomes apparent that, whenever you refuse to buy additional insurance for increasingly odd things, something along those very lines occurs to make you regret your decision.  Hunt and his wife have to keep buying whatever the salesman recommends in order to avoid personal harm and injury, and the very same thing is taking place in the homes of Hunt's friends and acquaintances.  Those who say no to the strange little insurance man live (or not) come to regret those decisions.<br />Some of the things that happen to individuals and families who turn down a new kind of insurance are beyond belief, and I won't spoil the story by delineating them here.  I'll give you a hint on one of them, though: think dentistry.  The madness grows so much that, however ridiculous the insurance recommendations are, our characters have little choice but to accept the impossible and sign on the dotted line.  The only hope they have is to bring down the insurance company, a formidable task indeed.  As I indicated, the ending just doesn't work for me.  It takes the story in a strange new direction, it feels alien to what has come before, and there are too many shortcuts taken for my liking.  Overall, though, the book is an absorbing read that will have you wondering if such awful things as presented here are actually possible here in the real world - after all, you should never underestimate the power and malevolent potential of insurance companies.	2003-12-26
854657:US	53016962	RHNJ0VSCDIO8G	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	863	900	N	N	A provocative, insightful look at the early Christian church	Noted historian of the early church Elaine Pagels has produced a clear, cogent, and very effective introduction to the subject of Gnosticism, a different form of Christianity that was declared heretical and virtually stamped out by the orthodox church by the start of the second century after Christ.  Most of what we knew of the Gnostic belief system came from the religious authors who worked so hard to destroy the movement, but that changed drastically with the still relatively recent discovery of a number of lost Gnostic writings near Nag Hammadi in Upper Egypt.  Unlike the Dead Sea Scrolls, this momentous discovery of ancient papyri has received little attention, and I must admit I went into this book knowing virtually nothing about Gnosticism.  As an historian by training and a Christian, the information in these &quot;heretical&quot; texts intrigue me, and I believe that Christians should challenge their faith by examining material that does not fall in line with accepted beliefs.  I should note that Pagels does not attempt to summarize or examine in detail the Gnostic Gospels in and of themselves; her particular focus here is the way in which Gnosticism affected the rise of the orthodox church that declared the Gnostics heretics.  Still, she presents a great deal of information on many of the newly discovered texts and inarguably shows that the Christian church was founded in a society espousing a number of contradictory viewpoints.<br />Pagels does a good job of presenting the context in which the early Christians lived and eventually argued against one another.  The debate was seemingly one over spiritual authority, and social and political issues played a part alongside purely religious disagreements between different factions.  I think she tends to overemphasize the sociopolitical implications of Gnosticism, yet her arguments are certainly sensible and enlightening.  One of the problems with Gnosticism as a movement was the disagreement among many so-called Gnostics on a number of issues.  In terms of Gnosticism as a whole, however, one can point to a number of thoughts and ideas that ably represent the whole.  Gnostics basically saw their faith as an internal thing, a practice based on the secret knowledge Jesus supposedly shared with a select number of individuals, one of whom was Mary Magdalene.  Gnostics attracted women in particular because most Gnostics viewed everyone as equal and allowed for the participation of women in any sacred act.  The orthodox, arguing that the disciples were men and thus the church held no leadership positions for women, opposed the teachings on these grounds.  Gnostics basically believed that one found Christ in oneself; inner visions were the trademarks of true Gnostics.  To the orthodox church founded on the basis of Peter's succession as the head of the church, Gnostics thus placed themselves not only on the same footing as the apostles but above even the Twelve.  They tried to answer their own questions as to how Christ could be both human and divine, and many of them came to view Christ as a spiritual being who only appeared to suffer and die.  Many also interpreted the virgin birth in spiritual rather than human terms.  To the orthodox Christians, this was blasphemy, for the church as we know it is basically built on the faith and belief that God's son took on a human form and died in the literal sense on the Cross in order to conquer Death and save all of his followers.  Some Gnostics came to believe that the Creator was not God but a demiurge who falsely declared there was no other God but him.  Thus, orthodox Christians were seen as following a false god out of ignorance, a charge that did not set well with orthodox Christians.  The orthodox beliefs on the subject of resurrection legitimized a hierarchy of persons through whose authority all others must approach God.  Gnostic teachings were thus seen as subversive of this social order by offering direct access to God outsideof the priests and bishops of the orthodox church.<br />A true discussion of Gnostic beliefs would take many pages to even begin, and Pagels has jam packed a relatively short book with much information along those lines.  Her contrast between the two competing forms of early Christianity clearly explains how and why the orthodox church worked so vehemently to stamp out the heretical Gnostic acolytes.  I am of the opinion that Gnosticism would have died out of its own accord had it not been declared heretical; its followers basically practiced a deeply personal and largely unorganized form of worship that excluded the masses.  The early church needed organization in order to survive, especially during the times of awful persecution we find in the centuries after Christ's death.  This is a deeply provocative book indeed, addressing a subject I will continue to investigate.  As a Christian of fundamentalist Southern Baptist persuasion, I will add that nothing I read here posed any threat to my current beliefs or faith.  Those Christians who fear the influence of a different type of Christianity should not avoid this book or others like it out of fear; instead, such individuals should test their faith by reading this provocative material because one's faith can actually be strengthened rather than weakened by such endeavors.of the priests and bishops of the orthodox church.<br />A true discussion of Gnostic beliefs would take many pages to even begin, and Pagels has jam packed a relatively short book with much information along those lines.  Her contrast between the two competing forms of early Christianity clearly explains how and why the orthodox church worked so vehemently to stamp out the heretical Gnostic acolytes.  I am of the opinion that Gnosticism would have died out of its own accord had it not been declared heretical; its followers basically practiced a deeply personal and largely unorganized form of worship that excluded the masses.  The early church needed organization in order to survive, especially during the times of awful persecution we find in the centuries after Christ's death.  This is a deeply provocative book indeed, addressing a subject I will continue to investigate.  As a Christian of fundamentalist Southern Baptist persuasion, I will add that nothing I read here posed any threat to my current beliefs or faith.  Those Christians who fear the influence of a different type of Christianity should not avoid this book or others like it out of fear; instead, such individuals should test their faith by reading this provocative material because one's faith can actually be strengthened rather than weakened by such endeavors.	2003-12-24
858035:US	53016962	R2OBW12595927A	0553212443	419595190	A Christmas Carol	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Evoking the true spirit of Christmas since 1843	Aside from the Bible, Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol is probably the most familiar and well-known book ever published.  Scores of film adaptations have been made over the years, taking Dickens' story of one man's redemption to all the corners of the globe.  The name Ebenezer Scrooge immediately brings to mind the miserly curmudgeon whose life and very nature were radically changed after the visitation of four ghosts one early Christmas morning.  Jacob Marley, Scrooge's former partner, returns in spirit form to warn Scrooge of the ponderous chain he is forging in life by his penny-pinching, selfish, Christmas-hating ways.  Then, of course, the ghosts of Christmas past, Christmas present, and Christmas future come to call for an increasingly troubled soul who comes to see the worthlessness of his purely materialistic life.  A Christmas Carol offers a truly amazing character study.  Scrooge, this seemingly incorrigible fellow, quickly becomes a sympathetic character as we view the circumstances of his life.  From a lonely boy rejected by his father (who blames him for the death of his wife in childbirth), we see a sensitive soul, one quite capable of feeling and expressing both happiness and love, grow greedy and cold, shutting even the woman he loves out of his life.  Completely broken down by the scenes revealed by the ghost of Christmas Yet to Come, Scrooge's transformation is remarkably real and powerful.<br />Little need be said about this timeless classic, as it is a story virtually everyone knows in some detail.  The message is clear to all of us, as well.  Dickens, the social conscience of the 19th century, illustrates the humanity and worth of even the lowliest of society's members and casts the harsh light of truth on those with the means but not the desire to help their fellow man, giving new life to the clich &quot;you can't take it with you.&quot;  Dickens briefly alludes to the religious aspects of the holiday, but he vividly evokes the true and rightful spirit of Christmas in humanistic terms.  This is a timeless story that will forever be a part of each Christmas season.  Not only does it impart lessons of the highest order, it never fails to charm and delight you no matter how many times you have previously read the story (and watched the movie adaptations) over the years.	2003-12-21
858562:US	53016962	R1YMXX9HQWI0WS	0830700641	500388766	Men who knew God	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A clear and concise look at 13 Old Testament personalities	In Men Who Knew God, noted Bible scholar William Sanford LaSor holds up the lives of some of the great personalities of the Old Testament as spiritual case studies; basically, he attempts to explain the types of spiritual truths we can glean today from an examination of the lives of these patriarchs of the faith.  He does not go into any chosen subject in great depth, but he does do an excellent job of placing each character in his proper contemporary setting.  In order to understand the men in question, one must understand the historical setting of each one's time on earth, LaSor argues.  Too often, Old Testament subjects are studied in a cultural vacuum, but LaSor is intent upon describing these men as they were, real human beings who rose above their many mistakes by way of their unflagging faith in the God of Israel.  Some of the ancient leaders and prophets, as many already know, committed some terrible acts in their times, and since the Bible records these sins and mistakes, LaSor is determined not to gloss over the bad, insisting that the greatest insight can only be gained by studying each man in his entirety.<br />This book describes the lives and spiritual accomplishments of the following Old Testament personalities: Abraham, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, Samuel, David, Solomon, Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel, and Ezra.  In addition to the Bible itself, LaSor draws on historical, geographical, cultural, anthropological, and psychological materials in reconstructing the lives and accomplishments of these men.  Ideally, LaSor seeks to impart life lessons to modern readers through the examination of the selected Old Testament characters' lives.  I am not sure he succeeds exceedingly well at this aspect of the book, however.  The vast majority of each separate study is of a more historical than deeply insightful nature.  The author's attempt to present these men as real human beings, warts and all, is the bridge of understanding he attempts to lead readers across, but oftentimes the life lessons he seeks to impart feel as if they were inserted into the narrative late in the game.<br />Certainly, though, Men Who Knew God is a rewarding read.  It is also written in clear and simple language.  This, plus the sketches accompanying each chapter, sometimes gave me the feel of reading a book for children or young adults.  Youngsters are not really LaSor's target audience, but his style of writing is quite accessible to young as well as old.  You won't find any heavy theology or in-depth examination of the lives of the thirteen chosen subjects in these pages; this is very much an introductory sourcebook for the study of prominent Old Testament figures.across, but oftentimes the life lessons he seeks to impart feel as if they were inserted into the narrative late in the game.  <br />Certainly, though, Men Who Knew God is a rewarding read.  It is also written in clear and simple language.  This, plus the sketches accompanying each chapter, sometimes gave me the feel of reading a book for children or young adults.  Youngsters are not really LaSor's target audience, but his style of writing is quite accessible to young as well as old.  You won't find any heavy theology or in-depth examination of the lives of the thirteen chosen subjects in these pages; this is very much an introductory sourcebook for the study of prominent Old Testament figures.	2003-12-20
861045:US	53016962	R1BWWI1KRKGZQJ	0441010806	968124860	Tower of the King's Daughter (Outremer, No. 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A disturbing secret is revealed, but the writing is superb	The Devil in the Dust, the first book in Chaz Brenchley's Outremer series, drew me into its world of fantasy from the very first page, and thus I was eager to see what happens in book two, Tower of the King's Daughter.  Brenchley is a true craftsman of the written word, far surpassing most fantasy authors with an unassailable skill at constructing worlds the reader can almost reach out and touch and then filling these worlds with complex characters whom we come to know and care for despite the mysteries and character flaws surrounding them.  Tower of the King's Daughter takes off where The Devil in the Dust ended; I should point out that the Outremer series was published as a trilogy in the UK, whereas the US publisher has split those three books into six.  A lot of issues that were left hanging in the balance at the end of the first book are more directly addressed in this text, and there are some big surprises waiting to greet the reader in the final sections.<br />The action so far is really built around two central characters: Marron, the young man who came to Roq de Rancon in order to serve in the Knights Ransomers, and Julianne, the daughter of the King's Shadow who stops at the fortified castle on her way to meet and then marry the husband selected for her.  The first book dealt primarily with Marron, and his is the more captivating story in my opinion.  Soon after arriving at the castle and being introduced to the disciplined life of a religious warrior and witnessing the magic of the King's Eye, he begins questioning his service.  A knight at the castle, Sieur Anton d'Escrivey, injures Marron's arm badly in a display of fighting and soon takes the boy in as his squire.  Sieur Anton is by no means an average knight; his is a past that includes the murder of his own brother, but only in Tower of the King's Daughter do some of his hidden secrets fully reveal themselves to Marron and to the reader.  I have to say I was shocked at the turn of events and revelations late in this novel.  What I had regarded as baseless rumors concerning Sieur Anton turn out to be true, and this quickly leads to an even more shocking discovery about Marron himself.  The controversial nature of the subject at hand will likely turn a few readers off, especially if they get blind-sided by it like I did, but the sheer daring of Brenchley's imagination is really something to behold.  While events drastically rub my own personal beliefs the wrong way, it is impossible for me not to remain wholly committed to this series - Brenchley's writing is just too good to miss.<br />While Marron remain the central character to my mind, this second book of Outremer delves more deeply into the lives of Julianne, daughter of the King's Shadow, and her new companion Elisande.  We now learn why Elisande has come to Roq de Rancon and largely through her we come to know two additional important players in the drama.  We also meet the man Julianne is to marry; the bride-to-be finds herself drawn to him from the start, a fact which makes what she has to do all the harder.  A second visit by a mysterious djinni has compelled her to leave everything behind and journey alongside Elisande to the land of the Sharai, a foreign people with little love for Outremer.  This plot point eventually allows for the assembly of all our major characters in one place, but the book does not end before we discover the truth about Roc de Rancon's mysterious Tower of the King's Daughter.<br />Plenty of mystery remains in the lives of our characters, a fact which bodes well for the succeeding four novels in the series.  I'm still trying to recover from the shock of the stunning secret just revealed, and Brenchley seems determined to keep me off-balance as even the final sentence of this second book of Outremer drops another bombshell right on my head.  I am quite bothered by the nature of one aspect of the story, but - as I said - that disquiet has done little to dampen my wonder and excitement over this refreshingly bold and uncommonly compelling series.  Few fantasy writers can equal the power of Brenchley's prose, as anyone who wanders into the world of Outremer will quickly discover on his/her own.tement over this refreshingly bold and uncommonly compelling series.  Few fantasy writers can equal the power of Brenchley's prose, as anyone who wanders into the world of Outremer will quickly discover on his/her own.	2003-12-18
861211:US	53016962	R286AC0X7CKMQJ	0441010717	19878962	The Devil in the Dust (Outremer, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The captivating start of a very promising fantasy series	The Devil in the Dust is the opening novel in Chaz Brenchley's exciting and acclaimed Outremer fantasy series.  Published to great acclaim in the United Kingdom several years ago, the series is only now seeing print in the United States.  In a sense, The Devil in the Dust is half of a book, and it will do to keep that in mind when considering and reading this novel.  In the UK, the Outremer series is a trilogy, but in the US it has been published in six volumes.  This is unfortunate; while there is a quality ending to The Devil in the Dust, several questions go unanswered and there are gaps in the historical background of the story that would not exist if the original novel had not been split into two books.  I don't mean to imply that this novel will not thoroughly engross you, though, as Brenchley's impressive writing skills drew me deeply into the story from page one.<br />We first meet Marron, a young man who has come to Roq de Rancon to become a Knights Ramsoner like his late father.  The Knights Ransomers are basically the religious army in the land of Outremer, and Roq de Rancon is the most strategically important fortress in this vulnerable realm facing hostile neighbors outside it and a hidden, &quot;enfolded&quot; heretical state somewhere within its own borders.  The Folded Land is left pretty much a mystery in the pages of this opening novel, but the people of Outremer are highly desirous of finding it and destroying it.  The king of Outremer claims to enforce the will of God, made manifest most impressively to the religious warriors via the magic of the King's Eye.  Before Marron first experiences the wonder of this vision of light, however, he is baptized in blood.  His actions during his first &quot;battle&quot; (the complete slaughter of a community of &quot;heretics&quot;) open the way for disillusionment in his soul.  He trains hard, though, and a certain noble knight, Sieur Anton d'Escrivey, makes him his squire.  Marron's struggles within the strict orthodoxy of the militant religious order and the hardships of his particular situation serve as the strongest elements of this novel.<br />We also meet a fascinating young woman, Julianne de Rance, teenaged daughter of the King's Shadow, as she makes her way to meet the man she is to marry.  She is a strong and compelling character who finds herself a temporary guest at Roq de Rancon.  With her comes Elisande, the most mysterious character of all in this story; Julianne befriends her on the road and takes her to the Roq alongside her, but she is never successful in learning the true story of her most unusual friend's background.  Obviously, there is much more to be learned of Elisande as the series progresses.<br />I absolutely loved The Devil in the Dust and am excited over the books left to read in this impressive fantasy series.  This first novel positions the major players on Brenchley's mental chess board, but epic omens hang over the land of Outremer.  Encircled by enemies and further threatened by an invisible enemy within, Outremer is a land on the brink of climactic change, and the assembly of heroes we see slowly coming together stand poised to lead the reader through a whirlwind of fantasy delights in the days ahead.  Brenchley creates a world you can see in your mind's eye quite clearly and gives birth to characters you come to know and care for as soon as you meet them, no matter what dark mysteries each may yet hold in his/her soul.ict orthodoxy of the militant religious order and the hardships of his particular situation serve as the strongest elements of this novel.  <br />We also meet a fascinating young woman, Julianne de Rance, teenaged daughter of the King's Shadow, as she makes her way to meet the man she is to marry.  She is a strong and compelling character who finds herself a temporary guest at Roq de Rancon.  With her comes Elisande, the most mysterious character of all in this story; Julianne befriends her on the road and takes her to the Roq alongside her, but she is never successful in learning the true story of her most unusual friend's background.  Obviously, there is much more to be learned of Elisande as the series progresses.  <br />I absolutely loved The Devil in the Dust and am excited over the books left to read in this impressive fantasy series.  This first novel positions the major players on Brenchley's mental chess board, but epic omens hang over the land of Outremer.  Encircled by enemies and further threatened by an invisible enemy within, Outremer is a land on the brink of climactic change, and the assembly of heroes we see slowly coming together stand poised to lead the reader through a whirlwind of fantasy delights in the days ahead.  Brenchley creates a world you can see in your mind's eye quite clearly and gives birth to characters you come to know and care for as soon as you meet them, no matter what dark mysteries each may yet hold in his/her soul.	2003-12-18
861401:US	53016962	R26QG14BWLZN91	006105934X	423686010	The X-Files: Fight the Future Film Novel Adapted for Young Readers: Adapted for Young Readers (The X-Files)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A faithful adaptation featuring a little extra information	This is an excellent adaptation of the feature film The X-Files: Fight the Future.  Elizabeth Hand took Chris Carter's script and transferred it to book form in the most faithful way possible.  If you've seen the movie (and I would certainly recommend seeing the movie before reading this adaptation of it), you will \\"see\\" the entire movie in your mind as you read along.  The dialogue is word for word, the descriptions are an exact match to the scenes in the movie, and you will not find anything from the movie that is not translated onto these pages.  Strangely enough, the book feels more rushed than the movie did, and the written word doesn't convey as strong a visual image of the film's culminating action in Antarctica, but I think this is clearly due to the fact that this book was borne of the movie and not vice versa.<br />Lest you think there is no reason to read this adaptation of the movie, I should point out that there is a tiny bit of material here that you will not see in the film itself.  This extra material concerns the fate of Mulder's little sister Samantha, and I can't imagine why such an important exchange between Mulder and the Well-Manicured Man was left out of the film.  This is information that goes to the very root of Mulder's obsessive commitment to uncovering \\"the truth.\\"<br />The initial hardback release features several pages of excellent color stills from the film, which make quite a nice addition to an important and very readable novel.  Even if you've seen the film so many times you have all the lines memorized, this is a book every X-Files fan really should read and own.	2003-12-18
861595:US	53016962	R3RMJS87M0MAAL	0671748750	157742560	Desert Warriors: Men and Women Who Won the Persian Gulf War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful tribute to the soldiers of the first Gulf War	Desert Warriors is quite a special book, dedicated to the men and women of Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm.  Put together by the staff of the USA Today in the days just following the war's end in early March, it provides a very personal look at some of the brave soldiers who served in the first Gulf War.  The book opens with a short summary of the course of events - Chapter One is given the fitting title &quot;Ordinary People, Extraordinary Feats.&quot;  There is a chapter called &quot;Desert Diary&quot; made up of field reports by USA Today reporter Lawrence Jolidon; these reports focus on the human side of the war, as he described the ways soldiers endured the wait and boredom preceding the war and acted so ably and bravely once ground forces got in on the action.  One chapter features special interest stories of a number of individual soldiers; several of these vignettes deal with mothers who left children behind to serve (a first in US military history), but perhaps the best-known subject is a female Army nurse photographed napping with a teddy bear in her arms (although she was every bit the soldier).  The home front is the subject of one chapter, exploring not only the popular support of our soldiers but the very real economic changes brought about in the lives of some individuals as well as cities when 540,000 of our best men and women left for the Gulf.<br />Two other chapters stand out from the crowd, however.  One contains portions of letters written by soldiers to friends and family back home.  These really give you a strong sense of the caliber of individuals America sent to liberate Kuwait.  Taking up just over half of the book's pages is a chapter called &quot;Those Who Died.&quot;  This chapter is what really makes this book so special.  Every soldier who died or who was then missing in action is listed by name, rank, hometown, and age.  Rather than leave it at that, though, the editors add personal information for each individual -information on the manner of death, families left behind, words expressed by the fallen hero before or during his/her service, personal descriptions from friends and family, etc.  None of these biographical additions are lengthy by any means, and some are rather short, but you do get a sense of who these people were who made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of their country and of freedom.  It is impossible to see these heroes as impersonal &quot;numbers&quot; or &quot;casualty figures&quot; after reading this book.  Desert Warriors: The Men and Women Who Won the Gulf War is really a touching tribute to our brave soldiers, and I look upon this book with pride and great respect.	2003-12-17
865078:US	53016962	R3CV7ALK4NAL0U	0964112531	539717560	Abortion and the Conscience of the Nation (New edition/issue)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	A powerful argument for the sanctity of all human life	Abortion and the Conscience of the Nation is an historically important document and one of the most passionate and well-argued pro-life essays ever written.  The publication of such an essay by a President while in office (and in his first term, no less) was unheard of, but the knowledge that some 15 million unborn children had been aborted in the first ten years after abortion was legalized in this country compelled Ronald Reagan to do something to put an end to a practice doing irreparable harm to both families and the entire nation.  The essay is a short but brilliant condemnation of abortion.  The issue affects all of us, Reagan insists, because the diminishment of the life of the unborn diminishes the value of all human life.  He exposes the ugly underside of the pro-abortion \\"quality of life\\" argument, likening it to slavery, drawing parallels between the Roe vs. Wade decision and the Dred Scot decision that divided Americans over a century earlier.  The \\"quality of life\\" argument is an argument for quality control of the population, according to Reagan.  It says that some human lives are worthless and thus deserving of death; as such, it is a dark echo of the Holocaust which has now inconceivably been endowed with the quality of \\"mercy.\\"  Legalized abortion, Reagan makes clear, put America at the top of a very slippery slope.  Not only are unborn babies being killed because they are not wanted, many are killed because of defects - someone decides that such a child would be a burden on the parents and family or the child will not be able to live a \\"normal\\" life.  Such babies are dubbed useless and without value by the abortionist proponents and are thus denied the human rights our Founding Fathers promised every American.  Just as slaves were denied the value of their human lives in America's past, \\"useless\\" unborn babies are now being denied that same value of human life.<br />Such arbitrary evaluation of unborn lives must stop, Reagan says.  Such thinking leads naturally to further crimes such as infanticide.  Such a case the previous year served to compel Reagan to write this very essay.  The courts of Indiana had allowed \\"Baby Doe\\" to starve to death after his birth because the child had Down's Syndrome.  In essence, retardation had been equated to a crime, one which deserved the death penalty.  No nation can survive and prosper when a group of individuals can look at a child and declare whether that child has any value as a human being.  The core of Reagan's forceful argument is to be found here: America has two choices.  It can be a nation wherein some human lives are declared to be of no value, or it can be a nation who protects and defends the sanctity of all life.  We cannot survive as a free nation, Reagan declares, \\"when some men decide that others are not fit to live and should be abandoned to abortion or infanticide.\\"  That is the core of Reagan's eloquent and insightful essay.<br />I cannot speak to the accompanying articles in the new addition of this book.  ...  Reagan's essay, though, is one of the most powerful and logical anti-abortion arguments in the library of pro-life advocates.  More timely than ever, this is an essay that all Americans should read and ponder over.leads naturally to further crimes such as infanticide.  Such a case the previous year served to compel Reagan to write this very essay.  The courts of Indiana had allowed \\"Baby Doe\\" to starve to death after his birth because the child had Down's Syndrome.  In essence, retardation had been equated to a crime, one which deserved the death penalty.  No nation can survive and prosper when a group of individuals can look at a child and declare whether that child has any value as a human being.  The core of Reagan's forceful argument is to be found here: America has two choices.  It can be a nation wherein some human lives are declared to be of no value, or it can be a nation who protects and defends the sanctity of all life.  We cannot survive as a free nation, Reagan declares, \\"when some men decide that others are not fit to live and should be abandoned to abortion or infanticide.\\"  That is the core of Reagan's eloquent and insightful essay.<br />I cannot speak to the accompanying articles in the new addition of this book.  ...  Reagan's essay, though, is one of the most powerful and logical anti-abortion arguments in the library of pro-life advocates.  More timely than ever, this is an essay that all Americans should read and ponder over.	2003-12-14
865253:US	53016962	R2J12XP6YSOAYI	1878376470	159324424	Hell	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A decent discussion of Hell - if you stop after chapter 5	This book is, to some degree, a pretty good explication of the physical existence and characteristics of Hell.  Jesus actually referred to Hell more often than Heaven in the Bible, yet many so-called believers in this day and age no longer believe in the physical reality of Hell.  Oliver B. Greene goes a long way to set the record straight.  The book is made up of seven chapters that could almost be sermons on the chosen topics.  Chapter One asks the question, Is There a Literal Hell?  Greene not only answers the question in the affirmative, he goes on to describe what Hell is like, when it was created, and why it came into existence.  In Chapter Two, Will There Be Degrees of Punishment in Hell?, Greene answers questions on the eternal future of the heathen and argues that there will indeed be gradations of suffering allotted in Hell, a position I personally disagree with.  In Chapter 3, The Soul After Death, he argues against the doctrines of soul-sleep and the annihilation of the wicked dead, going to great pains to describe the literal pain and torture all those who do not go to be with the Lord will face throughout eternity, following this up with Chapter 4, Who Will Spend Eternity In Hell?  Chapter 5 hardly seems necessary by this point, but a section on Why I Am Thankful That I Am Not Going to Hell serves to summarize and reinforce the main points he has already made.  Chapter 7, The Devil, provides a summary of the events foretold in the Bible, particularly the Book of Revelation, wherein the ultimate defeat of Satan, the beast, and the Antichrist is foreordained.<br />You will notice I skipped Chapter 6, entitled Demons, and this is for a reason.  This particular chapter is problematic and highly controversial.  Greene's belief that there are literally billions of demons working against God's plan on earth, seducing and damning untold numbers of human souls, is acceptable, but Greene goes way out on a very weak and tiny limb in his exposition.  The man literally sees demons everywhere.  Religious doctrines forbidding priests to marry or men to eat meat, he says, are demon-inspired and not of God.  He goes much further than this, though, making what I and I am sure almost all readers would classify as truly outrageous statements about women.  The idea that women are responsible for sin in the world through Eve is an old and deservedly-waning message, but Greene actually states that 90% of the devil's attack on God's plan is started by and through women, the weaker vessel.  The sight of women smoking and drinking horrifies him, but he unleashes his most bombastic attack on the attire of women, sounding much like a Taliban representative in the process.  The greatest threat to the world, he seems to say, exists in the form of women wearing immodest clothing.  Such women, he says, promote sin in men, as if men would all be little choir boys were it not for the evil of women let loose on the earth.  This entire chapter is so preposterous, even to a fundamentalist Christian such as myself, that it basically ruins the entire book.<br />My suggestion for anyone reading this book is to stop after chapter five; Greene's theories of the characteristics of Hell are worthy of consideration (even though I do not agree with all of his suppositions).  Chapter 7 merely repeats everything the author has already said, and Chapter 6 is akin to the ravings of a lunatic.ally sees demons everywhere.  Religious doctrines forbidding priests to marry or men to eat meat, he says, are demon-inspired and not of God.  He goes much further than this, though, making what I and I am sure almost all readers would classify as truly outrageous statements about women.  The idea that women are responsible for sin in the world through Eve is an old and deservedly-waning message, but Greene actually states that 90% of the devil's attack on God's plan is started by and through women, the weaker vessel.  The sight of women smoking and drinking horrifies him, but he unleashes his most bombastic attack on the attire of women, sounding much like a Taliban representative in the process.  The greatest threat to the world, he seems to say, exists in the form of women wearing immodest clothing.  Such women, he says, promote sin in men, as if men would all be little choir boys were it not for the evil of women let loose on the earth.  This entire chapter is so preposterous, even to a fundamentalist Christian such as myself, that it basically ruins the entire book.  <br />My suggestion for anyone reading this book is to stop after chapter five; Greene's theories of the characteristics of Hell are worthy of consideration (even though I do not agree with all of his suppositions).  Chapter 7 merely repeats everything the author has already said, and Chapter 6 is akin to the ravings of a lunatic.	2003-12-14
866512:US	53016962	R39NOLLW2FBFH5	0553354485	595035336	Bring Me the Head of Prince Charming	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A brilliant, very funny novel that fizzles toward the end	Bring Me the Head of Prince Charming starts out like gangbusters, starts to hit some slow patches midway through, and sort of just fizzles at the end, but it's still a very funny book by the writing duo of Roger Zelazny and Robert Sheckley.  The main character is Azzie Elbub, a demon who finally gets the chance to get out of the pits and go back up to earth, thanks to the Grim Reaper's slightly premature harvesting of a certain soul; even the devil wants nothing to do with lawsuits, so he sends Azzie along to make sure the not-dead guy makes an easy transition back into life.  Azzie's luck is even better than he initially thinks, as his return to earth just so happens to fall in the days leading up to the year 1000.  Every millennium, the forces of Good and Evil stage a contest to determine who will control the universe for the next ten centuries.  Azzie just so happens to have a great idea to pitch to the Millennial Evil Deeds committee.  He will recreate the whole Sleeping Beauty-Prince Charming story, but this time evil will rise up and destroy any chance of a happily ever after ending.  Having gotten his idea approved and received an unlimited credit card for the purchase of necessary supplies, he sets to work.  He needs a good assistant, of course, and a couple of castles, and an Enchanted Forest which simply must have flaming trees and such, and of course he will need a fitting Prince Charming and Sleeping Beauty.  Here is where the magic of his plan really shines, as he takes parts from different bodies and brings them together in an act of magical creation that guarantees, he thinks, the success of his nefarious plan.  Thus, his Prince Charming has the legs of one of mankind's biggest cowards, Sleeping Beauty gets such nifty features as a left arm born for stealing, etc.<br />Of course, Azzie faces obstacles along the way.  His otherworldly suppliers are less than cooperative with his requisition requests, he has to deal with an angel of good overseeing his whole operation (no cheating, even for Evil), and his initial plans for micro-managing the activities of Prince Charming in particular have to be rethought several times over.  He does have an old witch flame at his side, and the god Hermes can always be counted upon to give good advice, but Azzie keeps falling into little traps set by little girls wanting wishes, dwarves who don't take kindly to having their precious gems forcibly loaned out, and other magical snares.<br />Unfortunately, the novel's cohesion threatens to come apart at the seams as the novel progresses.  There is never a sense of discontinuity between both authors; rather, it is as if another author failed to deliver his part of the whole story.  Transitions become much more rapid and forced, certain minor characters seem to be forgotten along the way, and the climax comes and goes so fast you might miss it.  The idea behind the story is brilliant, and the authors clearly start out with the power and will to make it work, but something goes wrong along the way, making the second half of the novel feel forced and unsatisfying.  Still, though, there is a lot of fun and laughs to be found in these pages, and the reader's thoughts about what could have been do not necessarily destroy the entertainment value of this farcical fantasy.whole operation (no cheating, even for Evil), and his initial plans for micro-managing the activities of Prince Charming in particular have to be rethought several times over.  He does have an old witch flame at his side, and the god Hermes can always be counted upon to give good advice, but Azzie keeps falling into little traps set by little girls wanting wishes, dwarves who don't take kindly to having their precious gems forcibly loaned out, and other magical snares.  <br />Unfortunately, the novel's cohesion threatens to come apart at the seams as the novel progresses.  There is never a sense of discontinuity between both authors; rather, it is as if another author failed to deliver his part of the whole story.  Transitions become much more rapid and forced, certain minor characters seem to be forgotten along the way, and the climax comes and goes so fast you might miss it.  The idea behind the story is brilliant, and the authors clearly start out with the power and will to make it work, but something goes wrong along the way, making the second half of the novel feel forced and unsatisfying.  Still, though, there is a lot of fun and laughs to be found in these pages, and the reader's thoughts about what could have been do not necessarily destroy the entertainment value of this farcical fantasy.	2003-12-13
866561:US	53016962	R2SSDFZV4WJST9	0802409059	582197649	The Rise of Babylon: Sign of the End Times	Books	3	29	29	N	N	A book that has not been invalidated by Hussein's ouster	Given the fact that a certain mustachioed megalomaniac has finally been removed from power in Iraq, I thought this book would make an interesting read in light of the events that have transpired since its publication in 1991.  The book is not primarily about Saddam Hussein, and it has not been rendered obsolete by Hussein's long-overdue ouster.  Babylon has been important Biblically since the earliest days of man, yet I for one have never had an adequate understanding of the extent of its importance.  Babylon is where man first rebelled against God, constructing the Tower of Babel in an effort to reach heaven by man's work alone; Babylon is responsible for the destruction of the kingdom of Judah, Solomon's Temple, and Jerusalem itself in 586 BC; and Babylon's utter destruction is prophesized during the End Times.  Clearly, the destruction spoken of in the Bible has yet to occur; the ancient city's ruins still stand, with many of its ancient bricks having been used to build many a dwelling place over the centuries; when the prophesized destruction of Babylon takes place, no trace of the city will ever be found again.<br />Dyer's impetus for writing this book was Saddam Hussein's rebuilding of the ancient city of Babylon, a subject I knew nothing about from news reports over the years.  The rebuilding began soon after the start of the Iran-Iraq War, and Dyer argues that this act of reconstruction was meant to serve as a reminder and inspiration to the Iraqi people of their centuries-old antagonism for the Persians who had conquered them.  Hussein consciously cast himself in the role of Nebuchadnezzar's successor, implanting an image of himself as not only the man destined to restore the country to greatness but as the man who would unite Arabs against their ancient enemies, the Persians and the Jews.  All of this is very interesting, but this book's greatest strength is its presentation of the ancient story that Hussein was consciously trying to manipulate for his own selfish reasons.  The Rise of Babylon offers a very readable recounting of the history of both the Babylonians and the Hebrews.  The prophecies of both ancient prophets such as Isaiah, Daniel, and Jeremiah as well as those expressed in the New Testament are unchanging, and Babylon's place in Earth's final tribulations is foretold and of great importance, even if Saddam Hussein may not play the direct role in such events suggested in this book.  This is not really a book about Hussein; it is a book on Babylon's integral place in Biblical history and prophecy, and for that reason Dyer's very readable text is by no means invalidated by the course of events in the Middle East since the time of its publication.wn selfish reasons.  The Rise of Babylon offers a very readable recounting of the history of both the Babylonians and the Hebrews.  The prophecies of both ancient prophets such as Isaiah, Daniel, and Jeremiah as well as those expressed in the New Testament are unchanging, and Babylon's place in Earth's final tribulations is foretold and of great importance, even if Saddam Hussein may not play the direct role in such events suggested in this book.  This is not really a book about Hussein; it is a book on Babylon's integral place in Biblical history and prophecy, and for that reason Dyer's very readable text is by no means invalidated by the course of events in the Middle East since the time of its publication.	2003-12-13
868791:US	53016962	R908GO5PH7IRT	0671727095	189911673	My Teacher Glows in the Dark (My Teacher is an Alien, Bk. 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Coville takes the My Teacher series to a whole new level	My Teacher Glows in the Dark is the third book in Bruce Coville's My Teacher series.  While these books are written primarily for a 4th-6th grade audience, I as an adult have had a lot of fun reading them.  I especially love Coville's way of presenting each story in the series.  The series revolves around three pretty normal kids on Earth - the smart and brave Susan Simmons, nerdy dreamer Peter Thompson, and bully turned nice guy with newly-acquired brain-fried intelligence Duncan Dougal.  Susan narrated the first book in the series, My Teacher is an Alien, wherein she discovers that her new teacher is an alien and joins up with Peter to stop him from kidnapping five students.  Duncan narrated the second book, My Teacher Fried My Brains, in which we see inside his unhappy life, come to understand why he lashes out at people the way he does, and admire his effort to turn over a new leaf in life with the help of an artificially-advanced intelligence.  Now, in My Teacher Glows in the Dark, it is Peter's turn to tell a part of the story.<br />While this is book three of the series, it actually fills in the gap separating books one and two.  Peter left with the alien Broxholm at the end of book one and showed up back on earth at the end of book two, and now we get to hear what he has been doing up in space over the course of the earth's summer.  I found this to be the most enjoyable book of the series so far; instead of dealing with an alien among humans, we now have a human among aliens, and this makes for a decidedly entertaining read.  We meet all kinds of aliens, learn a few things about a few of their cultures, and get to see all kinds of alien technology in use.  In addition to this, the human side of the story takes on much more significance.  As luck would have it, the Interplanetary Council is debating whether or not to destroy Earth, and Peter finds himself smack dab in the middle of trying to save the world he left behind.  Peter's friendships with several aliens on board the ship are really quite touching, as is his passion for doing whatever he, a boy of about twelve, can do to save his home planet.<br />With the action taking place in space, there is a much stronger science fiction element to this book than its predecessors, leading me to believe that many a young reader would simply eat this book up.  With new and increasingly unusual aliens waiting around every corner, futuristic machines doing amazing things all over the place, and Earth's future hanging precariously in the balance, My Teacher Glows in the Dark sets the stage for a most promising climax in the fourth and final book of the series, My Teacher Flunked the Planet.liens on board the ship are really quite touching, as is his passion for doing whatever he, a boy of about twelve, can do to save his home planet.<br />With the action taking place in space, there is a much stronger science fiction element to this book than its predecessors, leading me to believe that many a young reader would simply eat this book up.  With new and increasingly unusual aliens waiting around every corner, futuristic machines doing amazing things all over the place, and Earth's future hanging precariously in the balance, My Teacher Glows in the Dark sets the stage for a most promising climax in the fourth and final book of the series, My Teacher Flunked the Planet.	2003-12-11
868875:US	53016962	RDY2LE58UQIPX	067175081X	286350276	My Teacher Flunked the Planet	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A little disappointing but certainly worthwhile	I have to admit I was a little disappointed in this concluding story in Bruce Coville's My Alien series.  This is a much more serious book than its predecessors, conveying a strong message about human society today.  While it addresses important issues such as war, poverty, starvation, and other social ills, it comes off as a tad preachy in places.  The fate of the Earth hangs in the balance, and it is up to the series' three young heroes to convince a worried Interplanetary Council that the planet should be spared.  Susan Simmons, Duncan Dougal, and Peter Thompson come together as a complete unit for the first time, each having previously narrated his/her own account of the events and discoveries leading up to the ultimate final challenge.  Susan has exposed her new teacher as a reptilian alien on a mission to \\"kidnap\\" five students for study, Duncan has gone from slow-witted bully to a nice, highly intelligent young man after having his brains \\"fried,\\" and Peter has traveled into the depths of space and met all manner of alien creatures.  With the help of a few human-friendly aliens, they now face the largest challenge conceivable: proving to the leaders of the galaxy that all hope for humanity's mending its wicked ways is not lost.  If they fail, the Earth will be destroyed in much the same way harmful bacteria are eradicated before they can spread their harmful influence beyond the localized area in which they are currently festering.<br />Things aren't looking very good for life on Earth; traveling in disguise back on their home planet, our team gets a close-up look at many of mankind's worst ills, and even the kids are often at a loss as to how to defend a people who do such terrible things to one another.  All of this is well and good (albeit a little too preachy), but the conclusion of the story (and thus of the whole series) was a let-down.  The big climax is more of a hit-and-run than a well-executed denouement, leaving me looking down for the rug that Coville pulled from under my feet at the last minute.  It's still an impressive final book in a very entertaining series, but I just expected something more.  While this book is by far the most important of the series, incorporating issues that some young readers may not have a full grasp on yet, it is far less entertaining and amusing than the first three books.  For a youngster ready to make the move to more serious children's fiction, though, My Teacher Flunked the Planet stands as a gateway to a world where learning takes its place alongside pure entertainment.Coville pulled from under my feet at the last minute.  It's still an impressive final book in a very entertaining series, but I just expected something more.  While this book is by far the most important of the series, incorporating issues that some young readers may not have a full grasp on yet, it is far less entertaining and amusing than the first three books.  For a youngster ready to make the move to more serious children's fiction, though, My Teacher Flunked the Planet stands as a gateway to a world where learning takes its place alongside pure entertainment.	2003-12-11
869154:US	53016962	R1H6DHL95P4X1	0375714618	494440083	Marx for Beginners	Books	5	16	21	N	N	A surprisingly impressive introduction to Marxist thought	A lot of people probably think they know what Marxism is all about, but in reality only a precious few have any intimate acquaintance with the man's writings and ideas.  Only the hardiest of souls can pour through the voluminous pages that constitute Marx's significant body of work, writings that are as dense and complex as just about anything you would ever hope to find.  No single book can communicate the depth and breadth of Marxism, but a single book, namely Marx For Beginners by Rius, can and does offer readers an interesting, comprehensible introduction to the basic principles and themes of one of the world's greatest thinkers.  I might point out the fact that I personally detest Marx with a passion; the man indirectly caused more trouble than any other individual in history.  It is important to know one's enemies well, though, and that is why I have studied Marx to a limited extent.<br />This book was actually one of several required readings in a college course I took on the history of socialism.  I had to laugh when I first saw the actual book as it looks like a book of cartoons.  Don't let the seeming simplicity of the book fool you, though.  Rius uses cartoons and tiny bits of comedy in order to make one's introduction to the subject as interesting as possible, and he covers the basics quite well indeed: Marx's philosophy, his economic doctrine, and his concept of historical materialism.  This is an increasingly complex triumvirate of concepts.  Actual quotations from Marx himself often drop in front of you like a ton of bricks, but Rius uses this building material to construct a humble edifice of understanding and instruction.  He especially excels at placing Marx's ideas in their original historical context, summarizing the evolution of society over the years and pointing to the sources from which Marx drew most heavily: German philosophy, English political economy, and French socialism.  You may just be skimming the deep waters of Marxism, but before you know it you've actually learned something about what Marx thought and why he thought it.  To further help you along, Rius provides a pretty impressive little glossary of terms at the end and offers a few suggestions on the subject of further reading for those who would like to pursue the subject further.  Whether you hate him or love him, Marx is important, and Marx for Beginners is the most accessible gateway to his philosophy and economic theories that I know of.	2003-12-11
871552:US	53016962	RDBTGW7S2VPUF	0142000558	966708550	The Myth of Sanity: Divided Consciousness and the Promise of Awareness	Books	5	81	83	N	N	A cogent, enlightening read	Martha Stout has written a cogent, eminently readable book on the wide range of dissociative reactions we have to different stimuli, providing meaningful insight into the behavior of ourselves and those around us.  We are all a little bit crazy, she declares.  This book was something of an eye opener for me, as I had never considered dissociation as a common condition in society.  Dissociation is actually a natural survival mechanism that has helped man survive for thousands of years on this planet; in cases of extreme, disturbing stimuli, the human mind may be unable to handle what it is witnessing, so it compartmentalizes the trauma into self-contained groupings within it.  The person may withdraw his/her own awareness from the situation at hand, and he/she may well have no conscious memory of it after the fact.  The effects of significant trauma cannot be self-contained in such a way forever, though, and so eventually the individual begins having nightmares or flashbacks, begins to space out or lose himself/herself at different times, exhibits dramatic mood swings, etc.  In the most serious cases, the person may well harm himself or someone else, transform into a completely new person, lose control of his own conscious self, or exhibit what used to be called multiple personalities.  It has been my understanding for some time that the number of actual multiple personality cases is extremely small, but Stout points to a small but significant number of cases of dissociative identity disorder (DID), an unknown number of which go undiagnosed.<br />Pointing to vivid examples from her own case files as well as anecdotal accounts of nonprofessional acquaintances, Stout identifies the points along the dissociative spectrum.  The most familiar and benign examples of detachment from self include daydreaming and losing oneself in a good book or movie.  At the opposite end of the spectrum is full-fledged DID.  In between lie such states as temporary phasing out, habitual dissociative reactions (phasing out whenever a remark or emotion suddenly triggers a trauma from early life), dissociation from feeling (feeling nothing during an event that should be emotional), intrusion of dissociated ego states (feeling strong, usually negative, emotions for no clearly discernible reason), demifugue (feeling adrift from both reality as well as your body), and fugue (losing significant periods of time wherein you unconsciously go about your daily life).  In extreme cases, an individual may develop separate personalities of which he/she may or may not be consciously aware, as these separate personalities may or may not have identifiable names.<br />The source of all these dissociative states, Start argues, is childhood trauma.  She is quick to point out that trauma does not necessarily result from a condition of personal harm, although it naturally does include physical abuse, incest, emotional abuse, and similar reprehensible acts.  A child has a limited understanding of the world, so he/she may be traumatized in ways his/her parents never even discern; becoming lost, for example, even for a short period of time, can have a lasting, deleterious effect on a child.  Years later, some word or sound or smell might trigger this buried trauma, thereby triggering a dissociative reaction in the individual; such root causes of dissociative behavior can be very hard to ferret out.  The very process of remembering can be pure torture, but whatever dissociative behavior is negatively impacting the individual's life must be uncovered in order for that person to find healing and live as normal a life as possible.  One cannot protect oneself (which is basically what dissociation consists of) and live life to the fullest at the same time.  In the end, one's ability to withstand and/or recover from the dissociative effects of early traumas comes down to a conscious choice of personal responsibility.<br />I'm no psychologist, but Stout communicates her ideas in a waythat makes very good sense to me; she even manages to sum up quite distinctly the difference between her techniques and those of psychoanalysis.  Her case studies of dissociative identity disorder are of course fascinating, but the biggest thing I will take away from The Myth of Sanity is the insight I have gained into normal, everyday life.way that makes very good sense to me; she even manages to sum up quite distinctly the difference between her techniques and those of psychoanalysis.  Her case studies of dissociative identity disorder are of course fascinating, but the biggest thing I will take away from The Myth of Sanity is the insight I have gained into normal, everyday life.	2003-12-09
874261:US	53016962	RS1B8G4SFNKPB	0938294083	845601540	From Out of the Blue	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Short on facts but replete with speculation	Over the course of two nights in late December 1980, strange lights were seen in Rendlesham Forest, England, and a detail of soldiers from an adjacent military base reportedly had a disturbing close encounter with an unknown object deep in the woods.  From Out of the Blue is prolific UFO writer Jenny Randles' attempt to explain what she has discovered from her research into this highly controversial event.  The incident is of potentially great importance for a number of reasons: it involved both civilian and military eyewitnesses, a deputy base commander taped a series of observations and reactions to events as they played out, this same commander forwarded a memo to higher command about the strange lights, physical evidence in the area included very interesting radioactive readings, and the secretive British government refused to admit anything out of the ordinary had occurred.  What makes the case most interesting, perhaps, is the location of the observed activity.  Rendlesham Forest is located in the vicinity of several then-functioning military bases, housing not only English troops but American and NATO soldiers.  Some like to call this the most documented of all military-alien interaction reports, but this case remains controversial and problematic.<br />Soldiers at the gate of Woodbridge observed an unusual light in the sky over Rendlesham Forest, and got approval to enter into the civilian forest to see if perhaps a plane had crashed.  The men reportedly saw what can only be described as a UFO that night, only to wind up wandering in a confused state of mind elsewhere in the forest.  The following night, strange goings-on in the forest prompted a return visit by military personnel.  One of these men was Deputy Base Commander Charles Halt, who recorded a tape of events as they happened.  After encountering the same mysterious lights in the forest, Halt and his men were surprised when an object which has all the appearance of a UFO appeared and soon headed toward them.  Things get fuzzy at this point.  Some men claimed they saw aliens or at the very least strange little men at the site of the encounter; one witness reported some type of mysterious communication between Colonel Halt and the mysterious creatures.  Others witnesses dispute this, claiming they saw no aliens.  <br />Randles try to go through the events of those nights in an attempt to prove that something unusual was in Rendlesham Forest on those two evenings.  In the course of the book, she distances herself from an earlier book she co-wrote on the subject, and in fact her whole defensiveness about this subject mars this book to some extent.  Certainly, her claims at being denied access to records of any and all kinds ring true, but her claims of being harassed and threatened by forces trying to hide the truth have to be taken at face value.  The troubling thing about this case is the fact that, even after reading this book and acquiring information on the incident elsewhere, the account of what was actually seen by witnesses that night is unclear and incomplete.  Contradictory testimony, recalcitrance of many military witnesses to talk, official denials and double talk from the Ministry of Defense in the UK and the American government: all of the facts in this case do little more than muddy up waters already impossible to see through.  I do not have abundant confidence in the &quot;truths&quot; of this previously long-ignored, now highly publicized event.  Randles spends the first half of the book, when she isn't going off on tangents, trying to reconcile accounts, evidence, and testimony that never coalesce into something one can get a firm grip on.  After failing to establish what actually happened to the soldiers in those woods, Randles goes on to devote much of the rest of the book to defending herself against debunkers.  This self-interested defense of herself from all sides soon becomes quite boring, and From Out of the Blue becomes a book about her rather than a book about the incident in question.  Randles does herself no favors by distancing herself from the work of fellow investigators, confabulating her own views over time as to what she thinks actually happened, admitting the fact that she allowed a tabloid to release the first significant account of the facts, and offering up some possible theories of her own at the end that border on the sublime to the ridiculous.  Rather than narrowing her focus as she goes along, she stretches herself out way too thin in an effort to cover all the possible bases of relevant new facts and insights.  I've never really been able to figure out this prolific writer in the field of Ufology, as she has a tendency to swing in all directions at once whenever it suits her.<br />This book leaves you with few facts of any kind, a number of increasingly weird hypotheses, and a significant amount of boredom.  Randles' writing style is not conducive to fun, exciting reading by any means.  While it seems clear that something quite unusual did happen in Rendlesham Forest on the nights in questions, the bulk of Randles' work leaves me in no position to even form an educated guess about the truth.	2003-12-07
874965:US	53016962	R23C8B0YDB934P	0671727109	679016284	My Teacher Fried My Brains (My Teachers Books)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More worthwhile but not as fun as My Teacher is an Alien	This sequel to Bruce Coville's popular My Teacher is an Alien reunites us with Susan Simmons, the protagonist and narrator of the first book, Peter Thompson, her brainy science fiction-loving friend, and Duncan Dougal, class bully and somewhat questionable ally in the previous adventure involving the kids' sixth grade teacher being replaced by a big green alien in disguise.  Duncan was an important yet secondary character in the first book, but he takes center stage in My Teacher Fried My Brain.  The story itself isn't as exciting as that of its predecessor, but I love the angle that Coville took in returning to this world of adventure.  There is a definite psychological component to this story, one providing insight into why Duncan behaves in such a disruptive matter - there is a real, pretty nice person in there just dying to get out.  Duncan now becomes a sympathetic character from the very first page, as we get a good look at his home life and see how this translates into his own behavior around other kids.  It bothers Duncan to no end to be unable to control his mouth and (sometimes) fists; even when he is doing something stupid that will just get him into trouble, he is inwardly berating himself as he is doing it.  The one thing that Duncan hates more than anything in the world is to be laughed at; this is a feeling all children as well as adults know a little something about, making Duncan a character that anyone can connect to in some way.<br />The kids are now in seventh grade, and Duncan's first day in a new school building is a rough one; as always, he finds trouble, and this time trouble reaches back and finds him as well.  He makes a startling discovery - a discarded human hand which, upon closer inspection, turns out to be a fake human hand.  That can only mean one thing: there is another alien at the school.  Like Susan in the first book, Duncan does not know what to do.  He knows no one will believe him, not even his classmates; you would think the adults in town might be of some help, but they have all started pretending that the alien business of last spring didn't actually happen.  Duncan soon thinks he has found the answer to his problems.  After taking part in a demonstration of static electricity, one in which a machine zapped his brain, he began to feel smarter all of a sudden; he soon decides to sneak in to the lab and give himself additional brain-frying treatments.  Despite all of his new-found intelligence, though, he has little success in figuring out who the other alien in school is.  The ensuing action is not bad, plus we meet a memorable and mysterious alien pet called a poot, but a few aspects of this story resemble pretty closely the strange events chronicled in Coville's previous book, My Teacher is an Alien.  The manner of Peter's \\"return\\" is especially weak, in my opinion.<br />If you want to read this book, I definitely encourage you to buy all four books in the series.  My Teacher Fried My Brain has a cliffhanger kind of ending that leaves a great deal unresolved.  It's a fun ride with great friends, though, so most young people who read this book will surely want to dive right in to My Teacher Glows in the Dark to see what happens next.dults in town might be of some help, but they have all started pretending that the alien business of last spring didn't actually happen.  Duncan soon thinks he has found the answer to his problems.  After taking part in a demonstration of static electricity, one in which a machine zapped his brain, he began to feel smarter all of a sudden; he soon decides to sneak in to the lab and give himself additional brain-frying treatments.  Despite all of his new-found intelligence, though, he has little success in figuring out who the other alien in school is.  The ensuing action is not bad, plus we meet a memorable and mysterious alien pet called a poot, but a few aspects of this story resemble pretty closely the strange events chronicled in Coville's previous book, My Teacher is an Alien.  The manner of Peter's \\"return\\" is especially weak, in my opinion.  <br />If you want to read this book, I definitely encourage you to buy all four books in the series.  My Teacher Fried My Brain has a cliffhanger kind of ending that leaves a great deal unresolved.  It's a fun ride with great friends, though, so most young people who read this book will surely want to dive right in to My Teacher Glows in the Dark to see what happens next.	2003-12-06
875774:US	53016962	R28YIL6M6O3A4S	0671737295	78879827	My Teacher Is an Alien	Books	5	18	20	N	N	An engaging story that should delight many a young reader	When I come across a title such as this, I just have to take a look at the book for myself; when I find that there are three additional books forming a whole series based on the whole alien teacher concept, I have to read them all; I don't care if it's classified as \\"children's literature\\" because, to be frank, there are a lot of good \\"children's literature\\" books out there these days.  With books such as this, by authors as engaging and gifted as Bruce Coville, aimed primarily at a fourth to sixth grade reading audience, it is harden to imagine that many kids just do not have any interest in reading.  Heck, I'm an adult, and I loved this book.  It's neither too long nor too short, puts believable characters in an extraordinary situation, mixes humor with warmth and intelligence, and - in case you missed it - features a substitute teacher who is in fact a reptilian alien in disguise.  What's not to like here?<br />This first person story is told by Susan Simmons, your ordinary sixth grader.  She has been looking forward to the final weeks of the school year because her teacher, Ms. Schwartz, is going to have the children stage a play.  She is soon shocked to learn that Ms. Schwartz is not coming back; to make matters worse, the new teacher, Mr. Smith, has no interest in staging plays or teaching in his predecessor's unconventional but highly effective (i.e., fun) style.  Susan doesn't like Mr. Smith at all, and like many a kid before her eventually finds herself in a bind thanks to a note she wrote in class.  In her attempt to get the note back, she discovers that Mr. Smith is actually an alien and that he has come here to take five students back with him to wherever he came from.  What's a girl to do?  No adult would ever believe her, and most kids would think she was joking.  She turns to Peter, a smart but unmotivated boy who eats, lives, and breathes science fiction.  He doesn't exactly buy her story at first, but together they find enough evidence to convince him that she is telling the truth.  Now all they have to do is find and save Ms. Schwartz, avoid being carried off into space by Mr. Smith, and somehow prove to even the most skeptical of adults that \\"we are not alone.\\"<br />This book isn't scary at all, but there are a couple of suspenseful scenes involving the children snooping around in potentially dangerous places.  Susan and Peter make for engaging characters, especially Susan; we see her having to deal with the reality of staying out of trouble, preparing for a big piccolo solo in the school concert, and forging a real friendship with Peter, on top of worrying herself sick over her big secret and struggling to come up with a plan of action.  This really is an engaging, fast-paced science fiction tale that should spark the imagination of many a young reader.im that she is telling the truth.  Now all they have to do is find and save Ms. Schwartz, avoid being carried off into space by Mr. Smith, and somehow prove to even the most skeptical of adults that \\"we are not alone.\\"<br />This book isn't scary at all, but there are a couple of suspenseful scenes involving the children snooping around in potentially dangerous places.  Susan and Peter make for engaging characters, especially Susan; we see her having to deal with the reality of staying out of trouble, preparing for a big piccolo solo in the school concert, and forging a real friendship with Peter, on top of worrying herself sick over her big secret and struggling to come up with a plan of action.  This really is an engaging, fast-paced science fiction tale that should spark the imagination of many a young reader.	2003-12-05
879511:US	53016962	R1OZL4XWU46ESG	0898402530	767849549	Orel Hershiser: Up close and personal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A portrait of Orel Hershiser as a Christian role model	Orel Hershiser: Up Close and Personal is not really a biography of Orel Hershiser, although it does discuss his life.  This is a rather short little book published by Here's Life Publishers in 1989 for the purpose of spreading the gospel, primarily to boys and young men interested in baseball, by offering examples of salvation's positive effects on successful baseball players.  Orel Hershiser had just finished an amazing season: he had set a Major League record by throwing fifty-nine consecutive scoreless innings, he had won the Cy Young Award, and he had been named the MVP of the World Series.  The baby-faced pitching phenom seemed to have come out of nowhere, but he had actually spent a number of frustrating years in the minor leagues before ever being called up to the Dodgers.  This book describes Hershiser's decision to become a Christian at age 21 and shows how important this decision was in allowing him to achieve the incredible success he enjoyed in 1988.  Hershiser is quoted extensively on his faith in God, making him an excellent role model for youngsters then and now.<br />The book includes two additional sections following the Hershiser story.  The first one describes the important role that Branch Rickey's Christian faith played in giving him the courage and strength to begin to desegregate Major League baseball; Rickey is the man who signed Jackie Robinson to a contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers just after the end of World War II.  The final entry is a purely religious message from former Yankee Bobby Richardson; after describing the thrill of his completely unexpected Grand Slam in the 1960 World Series, he goes on to tell readers about his Grand Slam in life, which was his decision to become a Christian.<br />Orel Hershiser: Up Close and Personal, written by Bill Horlacher &amp; Joe Smalley, was probably distributed for the most part by interested coaches or parents among young baseball players.  Hershiser was incredibly popular at the time of publication, making this a good means for attracting youngsters' attention to Christianity.  Today, of course, many youngsters probably don't know who Hershiser was, but this is still a nice little book to have.  It is definitely a Christian publication, it is important to note.lication, making this a good means for attracting youngsters' attention to Christianity.  Today, of course, many youngsters probably don't know who Hershiser was, but this is still a nice little book to have.  It is definitely a Christian publication, it is important to note.	2003-12-02
880241:US	53016962	R1234SLBYISDNW	0684849739	431236317	The Bible Code	Books	3	58	70	N	N	Interesting but not very convincing	I had been meaning to read this controversial book for some time now, but only recently did I pick The Bible Code up to see just what all the brouhaha was really about.  This is certainly an interesting subject, but I was a little disappointed in the theory, arguments, and proofs presented here.  As the book progressed, the open mind I began the book with started to shrink, as Drosnin began to backpedal and hurt his own case.  I don't doubt the author's faith in the method and results of his work, but this book falls way short of convincing me that the Bible Code exists and, if so, that its existence is even meaningful.  The book has a number of weaknesses.  First of all, Drosnin is a former reporter working outside of his trained field; The Bible Code is supposedly built on a sophisticated mathematical model, and its interpretation requires significant knowledge of the Hebrew language in its original form - the original language of the first five books of the Bible.  He presents us with printout after printout of data, but all I can do is stare at the Hebrew letters; the actual scientific paper that first delved into this mathematical issue is included in an appendix, but the math is way over my head.  Drosnin says other mathematicians have verified that the model is correct, but I just have to take his word for it.  I simply don't have any significant data upon which to form an opinion yea or nay about the Bible code.  Drosnin may actually have done better to include no illustrations whatsoever; what I see are foreign letters marked in areas all over a given page; it's like a find-a-word puzzle, only the letters of your words don't even have to be connected directly.  Odds of given terms \\"crossing\\" one another on one page are given, but I still don't know how these odds were determined.  Drosnin also indicates that the same model was run against two other long books and showed no kind of code whatsoever, but two books alone seems to be a small sample set, and I have no idea how many attempted searches were done in these limited sample sets.<br />The \\"evidence\\" sounds pretty good at first.  Drosnin constantly repeats the fact that the Bible Code predicted the assassination of Israel's Prime Minister Rabin, the collision of the comet Shoemaker-Levy into Jupiter, the start of the first Gulf War, etc., all to the very day.  Tell me more, you think to yourself.  This is where Drosnin starts to slip, however.  He spends most of his time talking about Armageddon, specifically how Jerusalem will be destroyed by a nuclear bomb.  He was certainly right in naming terrorist acquisition of weapons of mass destruction to be the greatest threat to the modern world, but prophesying trouble in the Middle East doesn't exactly require a Karnak.  He predicts that then-Prime Minister Netanyahu will be assassinated and that Israel will be attacked in 1996.  This book was published in 1997, completed after 1996 came and went.  Suddenly we find Drosnin discovering that the word \\"delayed\\" just so happens to turn up alongside all of those dire predictions of his.  He actually expresses the opinion that a delay in Netanyahu's visit to Jordan prevented the Armageddon he had predicted.  The Bible Code, he now decides, must include eventualities, things that may come to pass, things that we can prevent from coming to pass.  This back pedaling hurts his credibility quite a bit in my eyes.<br />In summary, I can't argue the mathematical validity of The Bible Code in any way, shape, or form, but Drosnin's arguments fail to convince me that he is right about this subject.  He can barely find anything in his code until that \\"thing\\" has already happened, and it seems to me that finding a few related words after the fact on a sheet full of letters is no difficult feat.  I do know that there is one definite error in the book, as Drosnin (and the Bible Code) shows that FDR declared war on Japan on December 7, 1941, when war was not declared until the following day, December 8.  As for the predictions he did make about the future, he doesn't exactly go out on a limb.  There will be strife in the Middle East and a series of earthquakes in Japan.  These things happen every year, so these are hardly convincing prophetic tests of his code.  I can't say The Bible Code does not exist the way Drosnin says it does, but it will take a whole lot more evidence to ever convince me of such a fact.day, December 8.  As for the predictions he did make about the future, he doesn't exactly go out on a limb.  There will be strife in the Middle East and a series of earthquakes in Japan.  These things happen every year, so these are hardly convincing prophetic tests of his code.  I can't say The Bible Code does not exist the way Drosnin says it does, but it will take a whole lot more evidence to ever convince me of such a fact.	2003-12-02
883242:US	53016962	R1VK78NVTGE6Q7	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	4	49	58	N	N	A gripping, suspenseful, fast-paced science fiction thriller	I was recently surprised to find this novel on one of my shelves; I saw the movie adaptation of the novel recently but did not remember owning the actual book.  The movie was full of promise but ultimately disappointing, so I was pretty curious to see how good a read the actual novel was.  Sphere is my first Michael Crichton novel, and I have to say I was quite impressed with Crichton's prowess.  There are some logical flaws and inconsistencies in the plot, but Crichton is an incredibly gifted storyteller; I eagerly breezed through this novel in short order.  While it is heavy on dialogue, the story touches on a number of aspects of the human personality while mixing in some profound if problematic science fiction in the process.  This is a fast-paced thriller that definitely registers impressively on the suspense meter, particularly during the climactic late chapters.  While the ending is something of a letdown, the story leading up to it is gripping and fascinating, and important clues and plot points are presented with much more subtlety and effectiveness than what you will find in the movie adaptation.<br />The novel is built around an incredible discovery; in the middle of the South Pacific, lying all but buried on the bottom of the ocean, rests a spacecraft of unknown origin.  Psychologist Norman Johnson, the author of a secret government paper on Recommendations for the Human Contact Team to Interact with Unknown Life Forms (a less than serious paper he wrote primarily for the money) is called to the site, where he is informed that he will be part of a team of scientists sent to study the mysterious craft.  Alongside him are an irascible Navy project commander, a brilliant, young astrophysicist/planetary geologist, a complicated female zoologist/biochemist, and a noted mathematician/logician.  This unlikely team of deep ocean explorers soon find themselves in an artificial habitat resting alongside the location of the mysterious ship.  Their exploration of the site yields more questions than answers, as the ship turns out to be an American spaceship from the future.  The truly enigmatic discovery onboard, though, is a giant sphere of unknown composition.  As the story unfolds, the team of explorers finds themselves effectively stranded on the ocean floor for a period of some days, and strange and frightening things begin to happen after one scientist somehow enters the sphere.  The scientists find themselves in communication with a supposedly alien entity who calls himself Jerry; whoever and whatever Jerry is, he seems to have the power to manifest remarkable physical creations and changes in reality.  The habitat and the team inside it soon comes under attack by such dangerous creatures as giant squid and killer jellyfish, but the problems eventually internalize themselves inside the group dynamic, a group that is shrinking in size as time goes by.  The mysterious Sphere imparts an amazing power to those who enter it, a power that such individuals may not even be consciously aware of wielding.  Ultimately, the last remnants of the research team begin pointing fingers at one another and take steps to insure their own individual survival in the face of an unquantifiable threat, making this novel a gripping psychological thriller based in a fascinating science fiction environment.<br />Once the team arrives in the underwater habitat, nonstop action ensues.  One emergency after another challenges the crew, and the group dynamic of the team ebbs and flows along with each jarring crisis.  Along the way, we see ever more clearly into the minds and ways of thinking of our main characters, and a significant amount of ideas are expressed concerning the human condition.  Crichton provides for no obligatory rest areas along the way, as he takes the reader for an incredible ride that had me turning pages hand over fist in anticipation of what was to come.  Some of the science is questionable, but Crichton surely makes it all soundmore than plausible.  The only real problem with the novel is a logical breakdown of sorts in the concluding chapters.  Still, the desperate attempts of the remaining explorers to survive, when they cannot even trust one another, make for a riveting reading experience.  Sphere is by no means a perfect novel, but I found it captivating and basically addictive up until the somewhat disappointing ending.  The movie adaptation takes significant liberties with the original story, so I would urge you not to let the movie's failings prevent you from immersing yourself in this eminently readable novel.d more than plausible.  The only real problem with the novel is a logical breakdown of sorts in the concluding chapters.  Still, the desperate attempts of the remaining explorers to survive, when they cannot even trust one another, make for a riveting reading experience.  Sphere is by no means a perfect novel, but I found it captivating and basically addictive up until the somewhat disappointing ending.  The movie adaptation takes significant liberties with the original story, so I would urge you not to let the movie's failings prevent you from immersing yourself in this eminently readable novel.	2003-11-30
885211:US	53016962	RE1OQZKQS4X1E	0802458785	524930597	Nervous Christians	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Overcoming stress and anxiety in the Christian heart	The subtitle of this book is Winning Over Worry, and the text addresses Christians who allow anxiety and &quot;nerves&quot; to deny themselves a full fellowship with the Lord.  The title &quot;Nervous Christians&quot; makes this sound like a book about Christians questioning their faith, but it is nothing of the kind.  Dr. L. Gilbert Little was an experienced Christian psychiatrist who strove to impart some of what he had learned from treating many patients over the course of his career.  Although the Lord tells his followers to fear not, many Christians do find themselves burdened by worry, anxiety, and fear.  Regular doctors and psychiatrists can help alleviate the symptoms of such problems, but they cannot actually cure the problems of nervous Christians because they do not have an understanding of spiritual things.  For a Christian battling anxiety, healing requires confession of sins, not an artificial lessening of problematic symptoms.  Therapy alone can not heal the nervous Christian, nor may prayer itself if the sufferer does not know what to pray for and cannot reestablish a fellowship with God.  Christ alone is the true cure.  <br />Working from his experience treating nervous Christians over the years, Little points to three questions that those who come to him for help inevitably ask: 1) Am I really saved? 2) Is God punishing me for some past sin? and 3) How long can you worry without having a nervous breakdown?  Many blame God for rejecting them, lamenting that their prayers go unheard, but Little insists this is never the case; Christ stands ready to comfort all of his children if they will just come to Him and lay all their burdens upon His caring shoulders.  The basis of all problems described herein is fear, which Little describes as anguish of the soul rather than a mental affliction.  Nervous Christians have, at some point, taken their eyes off Christ and focused on themselves, unconsciously becoming bound to Satan and his evil influence.  Fear, which is the basis of the whole problem, does not just appear out of the blue; it is brought about by a personal separation from God.  In order to recover and ward off such inner turmoil in the future, the Christian must determine how he went astray in the first place and guard against such influences in the future.  <br />Nervous Christians was published in 1956, but its lessons and insights are as valid today as they were decades ago.  The hustle and bustle of life today leads many a Christian into despair, worry, and fear, and this need not be the case.  This book has great wisdom to impart upon the Christian reader, and a chapter on &quot;This Thing Called Fear&quot; is brilliantly enlightening.  As a medical doctor, Little does not deny the benefits of psychiatry, but nervous Christians need a higher form of therapy, one supplied by the hands of The Great Physician Himself.  Psychology appeals to the mind, but the gospel appeals to the heart.  Christians who find themselves battling worry and fear can benefit greatly by reading this truly inspirational book.	2003-11-28
887314:US	53016962	R1ORR23USKBBWW	0881846481	361354622	Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy	Books	5	187	196	N	N	An invaluable intro to JFK assassination facts and theories	Jim Marrs' Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy, published in 1989, still offers, in my opinion, the best introduction to the JFK assassination newbie.  It was not the first book on the subject I read, but I wish it would have been.  The book I picked up first dove deep into some very specific aspects of the case, and a pretty comprehensive overview of the assassination and the theories offered as to the truth about it would have made my initial plunge much easier.  Not only does Marrs seek to bring together and distill the bulk of information out there, he does so in an orderly and systematic fashion.  Part One looks at the assassination itself: the motorcade route and security, the movements of JFK and John Connolly at the time they were hit, the accounts of all manner of witnesses in and around Dealey Plaza, a detailed look at activity in and around the Texas School Book Depository as well as the Grassy Knoll, etc.  In Part Two, he pontificates on the motives and means of all of the most likely culprits behind the murder: Lee Harvey Oswald, the Soviet Union, pro-Castro as well as anti-Castro Cuban exiles, the Mafia, the CIA, the FBI, big business (especially oil), right-wing extremists, and the military.  In Part Three, he examines all manner of evidence with a critical eye.  The chaotic aftermath of the shooting offers up much food for thought in terms of unusual sightings and events, not the least of which is the murder of Officer Tippet and the movements of Lee Harvey Oswald from the time of the assassination to his capture in a local movie theatre.  Jack Ruby's history and links to organized crime are threshed out, revealing many intriguing possibilities about the possible extent of Ruby's role in events.  Marrs then attacks the basic foundations of the Warren Commission analysis, going into a good bit of detail about the probably forgery of incriminating photographs of Oswald, revealing unforgivably sloppy breakdowns in the chain of evidence, easily explaining how the bullet that miraculously appeared essentially intact on a stretcher in Dallas could not possibly have done all the damage the Warren Commission's &quot;magic bullet&quot; officially did.  From there, he explores Jim Garrison's case against Clay Shaw for conspiring to kill the president and goes on to summarize the workings and findings of the House Select Committee on Assassinations in 1979.  Only at the conclusion of the book does he express in a straightforward manner his own theory as to what happened.<br />Crossfire just offers one important piece of information after another, easily preparing the way for the reader to pursue a more detailed study of the assassination.  Marrs is not totally objective at all times, yet he does touch upon just about every important facet of what is a most complicated case.  The number of coincidences and links between different suspect groups is nothing short of incredible, and you really need to have an understanding of how, for example, the CIA and Mafia were linked together in efforts to kill Castro, how Oswald's possible role in intelligence plays into different scenarios, etc., in order to come to terms with all of the theories out there.  The medical evidence in this case is amazingly frustrating and controversial, and one can get lost without an understanding of the differences in the testimony of employees of Parkland Hospital in Dallas and the findings of the undeniably unprofessional and sloppy (not to mention illegal) autopsy.  Marrs isn't afraid to summarize the most controversial of opinions, which can help the assassination novice look out for potential landmines in his/her further reading.<br />In his concluding chapter, Marrs finally offers what he believes is a possible scenario to explain all of the facts he has attempted to address in the main body of the book.  He in no way presents these ideas as facts or probabilities.  He goes farther than some Warren Commission critics go, pointing fingers ofpotential culpability at a significant number of different groups somehow coming together to eliminate a man each group had reasons for opposing; he clearly sees the assassination in terms of a coup d'etat with some level of complicity (be it passive or active) at the highest levels of government.  Many, including myself, find this to be a little far-fetched, but Marrs' personal theory does not get in the way of all the facts he presents throughout the book.  Anyone who accepts the official story of the tragedy without question will naturally find fault with Marrs for his differing conclusions, but those willing to examine the case with an open mind will find much food for thought in this remarkable book.  There are no footnotes to be found here, but Marrs lists a significant number of sources alongside a selected reading list.  Basically, this book prepares you for a more detailed look at all of the evidence, making this an invaluable introductory guidebook to the tangled world of JFK assassination theorizing.f potential culpability at a significant number of different groups somehow coming together to eliminate a man each group had reasons for opposing; he clearly sees the assassination in terms of a coup d'etat with some level of complicity (be it passive or active) at the highest levels of government.  Many, including myself, find this to be a little far-fetched, but Marrs' personal theory does not get in the way of all the facts he presents throughout the book.  Anyone who accepts the official story of the tragedy without question will naturally find fault with Marrs for his differing conclusions, but those willing to examine the case with an open mind will find much food for thought in this remarkable book.  There are no footnotes to be found here, but Marrs lists a significant number of sources alongside a selected reading list.  Basically, this book prepares you for a more detailed look at all of the evidence, making this an invaluable introductory guidebook to the tangled world of JFK assassination theorizing.	2003-11-26
889087:US	53016962	R2988A83BR061I	0517061031	558721524	Marilyn Monroe: In Her Own Words	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice coffee table book for serious Marilyn fans	Marilyn In Her Own Words is short on substance but not on quality, making it a great coffee table book for Monroe fans.  Large but skinny, it consists of 64 pages of biographical material, quotes, and photographs compiled by Neil Grant.  If you aren't fascinated with Marilyn, this book has little to offer you.  Despite the title, this is in no way an autobiographical account of Marilyn's life; what you get are a number of Marilyn quotes interspersed throughout the pages, words spoken to reporters and friends alongside a few notes from Marilyn's journal.  Many of these are interesting, as they deal mainly with her childhood, youth, career, and loves, but there is nothing groundbreaking here.  The book is broken up into five sections, addressing Marilyn's childhood, her evolution from Norma Jean to Marilyn Monroe, and her progression through the three phases of her movie career; each section features two or three pages of biographical material in addition to scattered Marilyn quotes.  Fifty-eight photographs, black-and-white as well as color, serve as the major attraction of the book; many of these are quite familiar (and none are by any means exclusive to this one book), but the photos of young Norma Jean are particularly nice.  If you crave anything having to do with Marilyn Monroe, this book makes a great addition to your collection, but there is little here in terms of meaningful content.	2003-11-24
897191:US	53016962	R3O69BUE752SGY	0140240039	994918968	The Killing of a President: The Complete Photographic Record of the Assassination, the Conspiracy, and	Books	5	20	25	N	N	An invaluable resource for JFK assassination theorists	The Killing of a President is an indispensable resource for those fascinated with the JFK assassination.  Robert J. Groden is perhaps the most knowledgeable expert on the photographic record of the assassination and its aftermath.  Not only does he have probably the most complete pictorial record of events, he is largely responsible for the first public showing of the critical Zapruder film of the assassination in the mid-1970s, some eleven+ years after the tragedy.  It was this widely disseminated, enhanced version of the Zapruder film that played a large part in the formation of the House Select Committee on Assassinations reinvestigation of the case in 1976 (a review that, unfortunately, ended up a white wash similar to that of the Warren Report).  Groden actually served as the Staff Photographic Consultant to this committee, and he explains how much of his evidence was either ignored or deleted from the final conclusions.  He was also an important consultant to Oliver Stone in the making of the film JFK.<br />You will find over 600 photographs and film stills in the pages of this book, many of them from the scene at Dealey Plaza and from the autopsy performed on JFK at Bethesda Naval Hospital.  Several of the autopsy photos and X-rays are obvious forgeries, and Groden does a good job making the case for such serious allegations.  He has also done invaluable work on the infamous &quot;backyard photographs&quot; of Lee Harvey Oswald, although others have presented a more detailed argument than that found here of the evidence of forgery on these pictures as well.  The book is organized quite well.  Starting with the assassination itself, Groden then moves on to the aftermath in Dealey Plaza and then to the medical evidence; it is here, he argues, that the cover-up really began.  A chapter is devoted to Lee Harvey Oswald, with a good look at Jack Ruby thrown in for good measure.  Among the interesting photos in this section is one which raises the possibility that Ruby was a witness to the assassination itself.  Chapters on the controversial Warren Commission report, Jim Garrison investigation, and House Select Committee hearings follow.  It is here that Groden really shifts into hypercritical mode, walking us through a reexamination of the most important pictorial artifacts associated with the murder and its cover-up.<br />Naturally, Groden's photographic analysis of the assassination and autopsy are of most interest to JFK assassination theorists.  The quality of the film and photos showing the motorcade and the shooting is obviously not of great quality.  I simply cannot always see some of the things others do in the shadows, but Groden's work enhancing and blowing up important shots does reveal the presence of someone behind the concrete barrier of the grassy knoll (dubbed Black Dog Man by researchers) as well as figures on the sixth floor of the School Book Depository and the Dal-Tex building adjacent to it.  As for the autopsy, a page of photos showing Parkland Hospital doctors and nurses identifying the large exit wound on the President's head on the back right side stands in direct contradiction to the photos and X rays from the autopsy, offering only one of many strong indictments of the autopsy findings.  Of course, one must judge the pictorial record for oneself, and this book makes it possible for anyone interested in the subject to do so.<br />Robert Groden definitely has his own opinions as to what actually happened in Dealey Plaza on November 22, 1963, but he does not attempt to point fingers at any possible culprits in this book.  He is, however, rather adamant about the number and location of shots that rang out that awful day, but I question one or two of these assertions, and anyone reading this book should not take every thing one reads in the narrative as the gospel truth.  I have to admit that I was a little disappointed that an in-depth frame-by-frame examination of the Zapruder film was not included inthe book; there are many stills from the film pictured and discussed, but I would love to have seen a much more detailed analysis of this crucial piece of evidence.<br />The Killing of a President does have one considerable weakness, I'm afraid.  A significant number of pictures are not captioned, and it can be difficult at times to figure out just which photo a particular caption is associated with.  With the poor quality of many a photo from this time, it is well-nigh impossible for me to find the significance of a few of these unexplained photographs.  This is in some way a minor quibble, however.  The important thing is that a treasure trove of pictures relevant to the case can all be found in this one resource.  While most assassination theory books by other authors do contain a limited number of photographs and sketches, one often finds it difficult to visualize many important facets of the case being discussed; with this fully-indexed book at your beck and call, important references to photographic evidence can be viewed and compared to any given author's opinions about them.  Don't expect to find a final solution to the mystery in the pages of The Killing of a President, but do expect to find an invaluable resource that you will consult time and time again if you continue to pursue answers to what is truly an unsolved mystery of the greatest significance to all Americans then, now, and forevermore.n the book; there are many stills from the film pictured and discussed, but I would love to have seen a much more detailed analysis of this crucial piece of evidence.  <br />The Killing of a President does have one considerable weakness, I'm afraid.  A significant number of pictures are not captioned, and it can be difficult at times to figure out just which photo a particular caption is associated with.  With the poor quality of many a photo from this time, it is well-nigh impossible for me to find the significance of a few of these unexplained photographs.  This is in some way a minor quibble, however.  The important thing is that a treasure trove of pictures relevant to the case can all be found in this one resource.  While most assassination theory books by other authors do contain a limited number of photographs and sketches, one often finds it difficult to visualize many important facets of the case being discussed; with this fully-indexed book at your beck and call, important references to photographic evidence can be viewed and compared to any given author's opinions about them.  Don't expect to find a final solution to the mystery in the pages of The Killing of a President, but do expect to find an invaluable resource that you will consult time and time again if you continue to pursue answers to what is truly an unsolved mystery of the greatest significance to all Americans then, now, and forevermore.	2003-11-17
909304:US	53016962	RH4VU8N5KAHO6	039489944X	659992357	Who Shot the President? The Death of John F. Kennedy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good nonfiction book for young readers	Having long held a fascination with the assassination of John F. Kennedy, I was curious to see what this Step Into Reading book aimed at children in grades two through four would say about the event.  Written in 1988 by Judy Donnelly, Who Shot the President? The Death of John F. Kennedy gives a surprisingly objective look at the case.  Illustrated with a number of color and black and white photographs, this definitely could serve to not only spur a child's interest in reading but impart to the child a deeper sense of American history and tragedy.<br />The book gives a short, rather glowing summary of Kennedy's life, leaving out anything negative, but it gives a good appraisal of Kennedy's final moments.  It mentions shots possibly coming from in front of the motorcade (although it wrongly claims no evidence of activity was found in that area), describes the discovery of evidence on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository, and covers Lee Harvey Oswald's movements from the killing of Officer Tippet to his arrest inside a local movie theatre.  There are several pictures of the assassination, none of which are graphic, of course.  There are a couple of shots of Kennedy's reaction to the first bullet, and I was surprised to find two critical frames of the Zapruder film included, as well: the frames just before and after the kill shot - the frame showing the impact of the bullet that killed Kennedy is not shown here, and rightly so in this context.  The book goes on to describe Jack Ruby's murder of Oswald, then talks about the Warren Commission Report and the 1978-79 Select Committee on Assassinations of the House of Representatives reexamination of the evidence.  Most impressively, it refers to some of the questions that conspiracy buffs such as myself continue to ask, thereby achieving an impressively objective look at this crucial moment in American history.  This would make an excellent book for young readers.	2003-11-08
912957:US	53016962	R26RTCQ5Y64HHS	0451459482	993619620	Low Red Moon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A moody novel that must be endured to be enjoyed	Caitlin R. Kiernan is one of the rising stars of horror, and her literary prowess is once again on display in her novel Low Red Moon.  Not only is the story a most unpredictable of sequels to her highly acclaimed novel Threshold: A Novel of Deep Time, it is streaked with deadly slashes of originality.  Whereas Threshold was rooted in a neo-Gothic Lovecraftian universe, Low Red Moon is a more conventional tale brandishing a fascinating, intriguing, yet slightly incomprehensible source of evil.  We first meet murderess Narcissa Snow sitting in a hotel room that she has remade into a bloody chamber of horrors, arguing with the voices of a lifetime of victims as she waits fervently for a phone call.  We are given strange glimpses of a dark fellowship which Narcissa is determined to join, and it soon becomes clear that whatever horror she will unleash in these pages is done in pursuit of that one goal, a desire to belong in a group of indefinable monsters somewhere in a yellow house in Providence.<br />After dipping our toes in the bloody pool of this sadistic killer's persona, the scene shifts to Birmingham, Alabama, where Deacon Silvey and Chance Matthews, the primary characters in Kiernan's earlier novel Threshold, are married and expecting a child.  Theirs is a most unconventional of partnerships: Chance is a learned paleontologist and Deacon is an unemployed recovering alcoholic and reluctant psychic.  Against his wishes, Deacon finds himself being consulted by the local police on a series of recent murders.  Not only can Deacon \\"see\\" the murders as they were committed, he in turn can be seen in those visions by the killer and is made to understand that she comes seeking him.<br />A strange man and teenaged girl only thicken the plot, for they come to Deacon in search of the woman they know is searching for him.  Deacon is never sure whom to trust or believe, but he does know that his pregnant wife is in danger as long as this killer is on the loose.  I have to admit I found several aspects of this novel confusing, and my enjoyment of the story was limited somewhat by the fact that I simply did not like a single character in these pages.  Deacon is an inscrutable man, keeping secrets from the police, his wife, and (when he can do it) himself, and he is constantly on the verge of giving up and retreating back into alcoholism.  Toward the end of the novel, some of Deacon's actions and thoughts struck me as remarkable if not incomprehensible, further damaging the rather low opinion I already had of him.  His wife Chance is far less complicated but even harder to like, constantly nagging Deacon about his involvement in psychic matters she puts no stock in; if there is love in this relationship, it is not easy to find.<br />As far as the plot goes, I feel as if I'm missing a few pieces to the puzzle.  Narcissa Snow is a fascinating, truly disturbing murderess, yet her reasons for all the bad things she did never made complete sense to me, and one possible aspect of her identity felt completely out of place in the context of the novel.  The conclusion, for its part, works pretty well, maintaining the darkness which seems to brood over the entire novel.  The epilogue does not completely succeed in pulling together some of the disparate storylines of the preceding pages, but it does make an honest, appropriately subtle attempt.<br />Low Red Moon seemed to hang over my imagination like a death shroud, mimicking in some small way the effects of Deacon's constant migraines on his well-being.  This is simply a dark tale that likes to skip rocks across the lake of hopelessness.  A sense of gloom and doom is appropriate to the tale being told, but a cast of characters who do not, in my perception, share a single spark of life among them made this otherwise compelling read something to be endured as well as enjoyed.dmit I found several aspects of this novel confusing, and my enjoyment of the story was limited somewhat by the fact that I simply did not like a single character in these pages.  Deacon is an inscrutable man, keeping secrets from the police, his wife, and (when he can do it) himself, and he is constantly on the verge of giving up and retreating back into alcoholism.  Toward the end of the novel, some of Deacon's actions and thoughts struck me as remarkable if not incomprehensible, further damaging the rather low opinion I already had of him.  His wife Chance is far less complicated but even harder to like, constantly nagging Deacon about his involvement in psychic matters she puts no stock in; if there is love in this relationship, it is not easy to find.  <br />As far as the plot goes, I feel as if I'm missing a few pieces to the puzzle.  Narcissa Snow is a fascinating, truly disturbing murderess, yet her reasons for all the bad things she did never made complete sense to me, and one possible aspect of her identity felt completely out of place in the context of the novel.  The conclusion, for its part, works pretty well, maintaining the darkness which seems to brood over the entire novel.  The epilogue does not completely succeed in pulling together some of the disparate storylines of the preceding pages, but it does make an honest, appropriately subtle attempt.  <br />Low Red Moon seemed to hang over my imagination like a death shroud, mimicking in some small way the effects of Deacon's constant migraines on his well-being.  This is simply a dark tale that likes to skip rocks across the lake of hopelessness.  A sense of gloom and doom is appropriate to the tale being told, but a cast of characters who do not, in my perception, share a single spark of life among them made this otherwise compelling read something to be endured as well as enjoyed.	2003-11-05
915704:US	53016962	R1BQ071OSJ8EM9	0441005705	202763707	Shadow saga #1 saints shadows	Books	4	21	24	N	Y	An interesting yet unfulfilling retelling of vampire history	Christopher Golden is probably best known as the author of several Buffy the Vampire Slayer novels, but he has also earned recognition for The Shadow Saga, a series of books built around vampirism.  I enjoyed Of Saints and Shadows, the first book in the saga, and it offers one particularly nifty reconstruction of the vampire legend, but this novel failed to bowl me over for a number of reasons.  This is a novel of good and evil, only it is difficult to consider either of the two opposing sides good in the traditional sense.  On the one hand, you have the world's vampires, hiding out from mankind yet taking their sustenance from the veins of human beings; on the other hand, you have a sect of heretical Roman Catholic sorcerer priests going way beyond their necessary duties.  I should point out that this novel is in no way critical of the Roman Catholic Church or of the pope, for the work done by priest sorcerers such as Liam Mulkerrin is unsanctioned and secret, just as it has been, we learn, since the time of Christ.  <br />The novel's hero, Peter Octavian, is no ordinary vampire, having left his coven a century earlier.  This outcast from his own kind now works as a private investigator, and the case of a missing young lady leads him into the biggest investigation of his life; he uncovers nothing less than a sinister plot by the religious army of the church to destroy all of the Defiant Ones (vampires) left on earth.  At the center of events stands an ancient book called The Gospel of Shadows; held secretly inside the Vatican, this book offers much in the way of explaining the nature of vampires in the world.  When the book is stolen, Father Liam Mulkerrin is sent to retrieve it; the high degree of sorcery he already knows cannot be imparted completely among his acolytes and students without the book on hand to guide him.  Mulkerrin enjoys his vampire extermination work far too much, caring nothing about who gets hurt in the process, and his true motive for findingthe book is to gain control over demons, destroy the only creatures left that he and the church cannot fully control, and basically take over and reform the Roman Catholic Church himself.  Peter and his fellow vampires just want to live in peace and secrecy, yet Peter quickly realizes that his band of brothers and sisters must soon fight for their very survival.<br />Peter has figured some things out on his own, such as the fact that the sun cannot kill a vampire unless that vampire believes it will do so.  The big twist to this saga can be found here, as the vampires of old were somehow brainwashed by the church into believing a number of myths throughout the years; it's never crystal clear how this was accomplished, although it did reportedly require sorcery of such a powerful sort as to change the very fabric of Hell.  Convincing his fellow vampires that many of their beliefs are false is no easy task, but Octavian goes to Venice in order to warn his old brethren of the danger afoot and to enlist their help in fighting the renegade Vatican emissaries here and now.  <br />Peter's most persistent question concerning the true nature of vampires is never answered in these pages, but the novel explanation for the existence of long-established yet patently false beliefs among vampire kind is quite interesting.  The problems I have with the novel basically have to do with characterization and the ending.  All vampires drink blood, of course (although Octavian refused to take his nourishment from live human beings after leaving his coven), and the vast majority of Peter's comrades, once he meets up with them again, see humans as little more than their personal blood supply pumps.  A similarly ambiguous evil lurks in the hearts of the renegade priests of Rome, however, as Mulkerrin pursues his goals with a lust for power, giving little more than lip service to the religion he practices and serves.  Going further, there is one important character in the novel, Meaghan, whom I could never really like, especially as she bore an undue influence on the culminating events of the story.  That ending, as I have alluded to, is rather disappointing to me, conjuring up images in my head of semi-ludicrous Japanese monster movie conclusions.  The epilogue does nothing to help bring the novel to a close, either, as much of the information detailed in those pages strikes me as extreme, unnecessary overkill of very unlikely proportions.  <br />In the final analysis, though, Of Saints and Shadows does offer a tellingly new version of the vampire's history and future, and Golden keeps one's interests held quite firmly in his grip up until the beginning of the end.  One must hope for and expect a better construction of the vampiric landscape in the succeeding novels in The Shadow Saga, for there are many unanswered questions left at the end of this first novel in the series.  Those with a preternatural fondness for vampires would almost certainly enjoy Golden's handiwork though, even if one feels - as I do - that his quest for originality in a tried and true genre leads him slightly too far outside the beaten path.	2003-11-03
934244:US	53016962	R3M5ZQ76QO86CC	1567994369	186795111	Judy: A Life in Pictures	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An intimate, respectfully honest look at Judy's life	Basil Nestor describes this book as &quot;an unabashed celebration of the wonder of Judy Garland,&quot; and indeed that is exactly what Judy: A Life in Pictures is: a celebration of a remarkable woman and unsurpassed entertainer.  The biography of Judy is told most tellingly in pictures ranging from a shot of two-year-old Francis Ethel &quot;Baby&quot; Gumm to a wearied, prematurely old Garland hovering on the brink of her premature death.  The pictures, all 125+ included here in this over-sized book, offer a great deal of personal insight into the life of this lady who was larger than the life she suffered through.  Some would scoff at the likelihood of a superstar such as Judy Garland being constantly unhappy, but anyone who knows the gist of her life's story knows that troubles forever haunted her.  The movie studios treated her badly and got her started on drugs because they thought she was fat, she saw only ugliness in the mirror whereas many fans adored her for who she was; I myself see the young Judy Garland as a striking beauty that put the likes of Lana Turner to shame.  These pictures clearly show the toll taken upon Judy by her continuing drug problems, unhappy if not disastrous relationships, constant self-doubt, economic straits, and overall depression, yet they also capture moments of true magic when the real Judy Garland floated to the surface and made everyone around her love her.  The later pictures of Judy are sometimes heartbreaking to see, particularly those of her final year as she basically wasted away, but these pictures show Judy as she really was.<br />The pictures are accompanied by a short biography of Judy's life and career, and this makes for an excellent introduction to this most complicated and talented of performers.  Her entertainment exploits are documented lovingly, and her failures and tragedies described with great respect.  You will find none of the hurtful innuendoes other authors spitefully insert in their own economically-motivated hatchet jobs of Judy, yet Nestor does not portray her as an innocent angel by any means, acknowledging the fact that many of her troubles in life were a result of her own actions.  Thus, what you get here is a short, respectfully honest peek into the life of the greatest female entertainer the world has ever known, with a sizable number of intimate pictures telling the story more keenly than the words accompanying them.  This is a book sure to delight any fan of Judy Garland.ivated hatchet jobs of Judy, yet Nestor does not portray her as an innocent angel by any means, acknowledging the fact that many of her troubles in life were a result of her own actions.  Thus, what you get here is a short, respectfully honest peek into the life of the greatest female entertainer the world has ever known, with a sizable number of intimate pictures telling the story more keenly than the words accompanying them.  This is a book sure to delight any fan of Judy Garland.	2003-10-19
935536:US	53016962	R3LQB67TMJXGKT	1570719748	940934364	We Interrupt This Broadcast with 2 Audio CDs, 3E	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A time capsule of major twentieth-century American news	We Interrupt This Broadcast is a statement that never fails to send a little chill up my spine, as these four words have introduced many tragic news stories over the years.  In today's jaded world, these words do not have the connotation I still associate with them, and that is both a good and a bad thing.  In a world where so much is forgotten so quickly, it is important, especially for the younger generation, to not only know about important events in history but to have a real understanding of sorts concerning them.  This book does much to help everyone living today, both young and old, to learn about, remember, and vicariously experience some of history's most memorable (many of them tragic) events.  Over forty important moments of the twentieth century are detailed in this coffee table-like book, ranging from the fiery death of the Hindenburg in 1937 to (in my 2nd edition copy) the death of John Kennedy, Jr. in 1999.  The third edition offers additional material of important events in the time period between releases.<br />While none of these events is covered in-depth by any means, the book offers worthwhile summaries and plenty of informative photographs throughout its pages.  More importantly, though, the book comes with two CDs containing broadcast footage of these events, letting today's listener hear the words by which America was informed of such tragedies as the assassinations of John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, as well as tales of horror such as the explosion of Flight 800, the fiery end of the Waco standoff with David Koresh and his followers, and the Challenger explosion.  Of course, all the news was not bad: here you can hear and read about man taking his first steps on the moon, bear witness to the dismantling of the Berlin Wall, and celebrate retroactively the end of the World War II.<br />In a sense, this is a time capsule of sorts, as it holds a significant part of the history of twentieth-century America inside its pages and burned onto its two CDs.  We Interrupt This Broadcast would make an excellent teaching tool for youngsters, but anyone who wants to come to a greater appreciation of history could profit much by this book, as well.s pages and burned onto its two CDs.  We Interrupt This Broadcast would make an excellent teaching tool for youngsters, but anyone who wants to come to a greater appreciation of history could profit much by this book, as well.	2003-10-18
935810:US	53016962	R289J0VDXL284E	0887308589	59233487	The Dilbert Principle: A Cubicle's-Eye View of Bosses, Meetings, Management Fads & Other Workplace Afflictions	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dilbert 101	The reason for the remarkable success of Scott Adams' Dilbert cartoon strip is obvious; he has captured the flavor of modern business and held it up to the light of truth, revealing all of its quirks, crazy strategies, and downright insanity for all to see.  Dilbert is the working man's hero; while we toil away in our little cubicles, waiting for quitting time and weekends, Dilbert and his pals are fighting back - well, not fighting, but they are doing all kinds of complaining, the same complaining most office workers do, albeit not so forthrightly.  The Dilbert Principle is the book that made a cult comic strip a treasury of American humor; taken outside the frames of his heralded daily comic strip, Scott Adams is even funnier and more insightful than even many a Dilbert fan would have thought possible.  He's been there, and he knows what he is talking about.<br />In this bestselling book, Adams basically defines corporate culture; telling us many things we already know yet doing so in a fashion that is brilliantly funny.  His explanation for the craziness of business today is a simple one: People are idiots, which is something I've been saying that for years.  Adams includes himself among the idiot population.  We all do stupid things from time to time, and those who do more stupid things than others wind up in corner offices with windows and a secretary while the majority of folks toil away in their sensory deprivation chambers (or cubicles).  Adams explains the nature of this beast we call the workplace, illustrating his points with the help of over 400 Dilbert cartoons and reinforcing even the most seemingly inane assumptions he makes with actual case reports of real people who have written to him of their own experiences.<br />The Dilbert Principle covers almost every aspect of the workplace: management, performance reviews, marketing, business plans, budgets, sales, those awful meetings, projects, etc.  He shows you how to get ahead at the expense of your co-workers, delineates the lies of management so that you can be on the lookout for them when they come, defines modern terms such as downsizing in the simple, more direct meanings of days gone by.  He describes the process by which one becomes a leader, exposes team-building exercises and group projects as the useless vehicles they almost always are, and provides advice on keeping afloat in the business world by means of hoarding information, avoiding doomed projects, and surviving those you can't avoid; from there, he goes on to offer his knowledge on topics such as: how to participate in a meeting based on the things you want to get out of it, and (as if most of us even need a refresher on this) how to avoid actually working while at work.  <br />The whole book is just brilliant, hysterical satire built on things millions of us know all too well, and one finds oneself nodding or agreeing with far too many of the silliest notions and business practices Adams rakes over the coals.  The book is a fountain of knowledge, with each page containing terrific quotes along the lines of three of my favorites: 1) The best thing about the future is that it isn't here yet, 2) The great thing about the truth is that there are so many ways to avoid it without being a &quot;liar,&quot; and 3) The only constructive criticism is the kind you do behind people's backs.  If you are a Dilbert-type worker (and odds are pretty good that you are), you will find comedy and a sense of comradeship with Dilbert and his cohorts.  If you really want to get ahead and assume the increased lack of intelligence needed to become a manager, though, you should pick this book up for one chapter alone: Machiavellian Methods penned by Dogbert himself.	2003-10-18
947027:US	53016962	R3SMNNLKHW3UXZ	0836236688	40166207	Seven Years of Highly Defective People: Scott Adams' Guided Tour of the Evolution of Dilbert	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An outstanding introduction to the Dilbert phenomenon	Scott Adams' Dilbert comic strip is simply brilliant; Dilbert is the embodiment of the typical white collar working man.  Other comic strips may be funny, but Dilbert personally connects with huge numbers of people in ways no other comic strip has ever come close to matching.  It's really amazing how a single three-frame daily comic can say so much so well.  I feel a particular affinity to both Dilbert and his creator Scott Adams.  Adams' first job was a bank teller position, as was mine.  I am also quite familiar with the whole cubicle phenomenon, and while my own work experience was never quite as dysfunctional as that of Dilbert, I can relate to and understand very well the types of management decisions, innovatively silly programs and campaigns, and team-building charades that take place in Dilbert's workplace.  You don't have to be a cubicle veteran to &quot;get&quot; Dilbert, though, and Adams' humor is so razor-sharp and grounded in common sense that Dilbert's fans should be and are legion in number.<br />Seven Years of Highly Defective People makes a great introduction to Scott Adams' brilliant comic strip.  Not only do you get a sampling of Adams' best creations from the time of the strip's appearance in 1989 to 1996 and the publication of this book, you get a great introduction to the characters who share Dilbert's world.  You can see the progression of the The Boss over time and marvel at the appearance and growth of his increasingly pointy hair, watch Dilbert's coworker Alice evolve from a nondescript female character to the triangle-haired attitude-laced pistol she came to be.  Wally has always been Wally, but this guy makes any comic strip frame better and funnier just by lending his presence.  Then there are the minor and not-so-minor other characters: Ratbert, Catbert, Bob the Dinosaur and family, Dilbert's Mom and never-seen Dad, the world's smartest garbageman, Phil the Prince of Insufficient Light, Asok the intern, Ted the Generic Guy, etc.  My favorite character is of course Dogbert, Dilbert's dog who is constantly scheming to take over the world, creating some of the most amazing jobs for himself to aid him in his efforts.  Dogbert gets to say all the things that Dilbert (and his author and I and many of us) would like to say but cannot even think about uttering aloud.  <br />Each significant character gets a little bio-type write-up here, and perhaps best of all Adams has included notes for the majority of the comic strips stuffed into these 250+ pages.  It's fascinating to see how little things he did almost on a lark ended up becoming so popular that they had to be incorporated into the whole Dilbert universe.  Even more fascinating are Adams' references to the many controversies some of his seemingly innocuous comic strip ideas met with.  His comments on his own poor cartooning skills are also quite funny and, it would seem, true to an extent.  Of course, Dilbert wouldn't be the same if it came out looking like a piece of art or a Disney-type production.  Most people either &quot;get&quot; Dilbert or don't &quot;get&quot; him, and I think most individuals can establish their respective place with a look at a small sampling of the comic strips.  Those whom Dilbert speaks to as a prophet of truth blazing forth across the heavens would do well to invest in this significant collection; there are a lot of Dilbert books on the market, but I think Seven Years of Highly Defective People is among the best of the bunch and is particularly appealing to those wanting to review or learn about the early years of Dilbert.	2003-10-09
952074:US	53016962	R1BVZJBA5Z28JU	0890812357	341657549	Wit and Wisdom	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Serves up good advice with a decent helping of comedy	Wit &amp; Wisdom is a collection of jokes, proverbs, quotes, stories, and several painfully bad puns meant to induce both mirth and insight in the mind of the reader.  The book is arranged alphabetically by topic in the manner of a dictionary.  Published in 1977, it was formerly titled The Fun Joke Book, but the original title was something of a misnomer.  Much of what you will find here is not funny nor is it meant to be: i.e., a bit of advice, sage warnings about the paths life offers us, and a number of Biblical quotations.  This is not a religious book per se, however, as the vast majority of the Biblical quotations are taken from the Book of Proverbs and consist mainly of short lessons in common sense.  You will find a lot of sayings you already know, but these are the types of things one does well to be reminded of periodically.  Not everything here is funny, not by a long shot.  Some of the puns are as bad as puns can be, and a few of the jokes fall flat, but there is still plenty of humor to go around.  One thing about the book I didn't particularly like was the fact that only a significant minority of the quotes and sayings were accompanied by the names of their sources; certainly, a lot of these adages have no author we know of, but many statements clearly uttered by someone in history were not placed in complete context for me in these pages.  A number of entries are referenced, however, particularly those springing from the minds of such famous thinkers as Seneca and Mark Twain.  All in all, this book is a bit hit and miss in my opinion; on the whole, it is very good and serves up some good advice with a smile, yet there are some entries that I personally found bland, uninspiring, and hardly humorous.  To each his own, though, and this book certainly has something to offer anyone who reads it.	2003-10-05
952171:US	53016962	R10S1220P0OQHZ	0830707654	633312891	Birth of the King (Bible Biography)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stories for young readers of Jesus' early ministry	Aimed at young readers, Alice Schrage's Birth of the King relates a number of stories of Jesus' birth and early ministry.  In each case, the author has added details to make the story easily accessible and understandable to young minds.  The book avoids mention of any major conflicts Jesus dealt with, including his arrest and crucifixion; these are happy and instructive stories meant to appeal to young readers.  Among the subjects covered are Jesus' birth, his extended visit to the synagogue as a boy, the ministry of John the Baptist and Jesus' own baptism, the recruiting of the disciples, Jesus' first miracle (turning water to wine), the healing of the sick, the miracle of the loaves and fishes, and the means by which salvation is achieved.  A few illustrations are included in the text.  Overall, Birth of the King is a book young readers can read for themselves or have read to them, gaining insight in the process as to the type of man Jesus was.  While information on entering the kingdom of heaven is certainly mentioned, this is much more of an informative book than an evangelical one.	2003-10-05
952564:US	53016962	R27S7QJEKW0NTT	1931768072	529186522	Vanessa Family Tree: Sequel to Vanessa	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An unusual and enjoyable follow-up to the first Vanessa book	David L. Howells' Vanessa series is a unique set of novels, and this second entry in that series, Vanessa: Family Tree, is particularly unusual in terms of its storyline.  The book begins where the first book ended - literally.  You don't necessarily have to read the first book in order to follow and appreciate this one, but you will be much better served if you do so.  The ghostly conflict that provided the culminating drama of the first book has ended, but the story is far from over.  The authorities in Milledgeville, Georgia, want to know what the heck happened at the old Edwards Estate, and the national news networks are airing all the footage of the conflict, footage which clearly shows a battle between two ghostly spirits and the participation in that event by the members of the unofficial Fitzgalen Family.  The first half of this second novel basically revolves around the investigation of these mysterious events, centering on the detective activities of a special Task Force consisting of a ghost hunter and his famous ghost-sniffing Chihuahua, an officer in the Georgia National Guard, a Milledgeville cop, an FBI agent, and a well-known independent journalist.  This gang of experts compiles an impressive amount of information before confronting the group head-on, at which point the novel takes a much different turn.<br />As for our gang of heroes from the first book, we follow their winding-down activities after the confrontation in Georgia and return to home base, where among other things they take care of sending family lawyer (and new ghost companion) Gustav's body to the grave.  The young new CEO of the company continues to develop his newly-rekindled romance with the new and improved Melissa, Ralph and Marianne advance their flirtatious new relationship in great haste, and Rachel faces the daunting task of possibly choosing between her husband's family and her new participation in the Fitzgalen Family.  Howells does a great job of keeping a large and growing cast of characters busy and at the forefront of the reader's mind.  While there are still several &quot;for Pete's sake&quot; and &quot;you have got to be kidding&quot; moments and bits of dialogue scattered around, these very human characters are by now well-known and liked by the reader, and I for one greatly enjoy even the silliest of quirks these people express.<br />The most unusual part of this book is the fact that there is no well-established storyline dominating it; the first half of the novel is mostly just a continuation of the first book, and the ghostly confrontation upon which this book culminates appears late in the game and doesn't really get a lot of attention.  Thus, I can see how someone picking this book up without having read the first Vanessa novel could be disappointed in the story.  For fans of the Fitzgalen Family and their devoted efforts to help dead souls stuck on earth advance to the next realm, however, this is just more of a great thing.  I do wonder, though, about the number of additions to the team this novel gives us, especially since most of these people just do not connect with this reader the way the original core group does. That, of course, is a question to be answered by the Vanessa novels that are to follow. A few characters' continued presence here would be fairly unexplainable in terms of the context of this book alone, but obviously these individuals will play a role in future Fitzgalen missions, the accounts of which I look forward to reading and enjoying.wing cast of characters busy and at the forefront of the reader's mind.  While there are still several &quot;for Pete's sake&quot; and &quot;you have got to be kidding&quot; moments and bits of dialogue scattered around, these very human characters are by now well-known and liked by the reader, and I for one greatly enjoy even the silliest of quirks these people express.  <br />The most unusual part of this book is the fact that there is no well-established storyline dominating it; the first half of the novel is mostly just a continuation of the first book, and the ghostly confrontation upon which this book culminates appears late in the game and doesn't really get a lot of attention.  Thus, I can see how someone picking this book up without having read the first Vanessa novel could be disappointed in the story.  For fans of the Fitzgalen Family and their devoted efforts to help dead souls stuck on earth advance to the next realm, however, this is just more of a great thing.  I do wonder, though, about the number of additions to the team this novel gives us, especially since most of these people just do not connect with this reader the way the original core group does. That, of course, is a question to be answered by the Vanessa novels that are to follow. A few characters' continued presence here would be fairly unexplainable in terms of the context of this book alone, but obviously these individuals will play a role in future Fitzgalen missions, the accounts of which I look forward to reading and enjoying.	2003-10-04
961302:US	53016962	R2P9A3SD915LG	1883707900	529186522	Vanessa	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A flawed yet undeniably compelling first novel	David L. Howells' Vanessa is an interesting book in many ways.  The concept and general outline of the story are delightfully innovative, but the book does read like an author's first novel (which it is), and this lessens its impact on the reader.  I really could not get a good sense of what the novel was about until I began the journey myself.  The back cover describes Vanessa in these words: &quot;Past, present and future blend into a supernatural suspense thriller of ghost boosters and the American Civil War.&quot;  The opening chapters slip back and forth between the future and the past, giving us glimpses of an obviously important moment toward the end of the War Between the States while acquainting us with the central characters of this future history.  The book is built around the character of Ryan David Fitzgalen, the mysterious benefactor of one Allen Carl Hawthorn.  Ryan, we learn, is a unique individual; his participation in a Philadelphia Project-like test during World War II left him with the ability to see and converse with ghosts (as well as a remarkably slow aging process).  Allen is given the opportunity to join the Fitzgalen &quot;family&quot; after his twenty-first birthday, an opportunity which he and his mother embrace with open arms.  The group devotes its time, wealth, and energy toward helping spirits still bound to this earth make the move on to whatever afterlife awaits them.  The most helpful ally the Fitzgalen gang has is Vanessa, a ghost whom Ryan met and bonded with at the time his newfound gifts were miraculously bestowed upon him.<br />The Family, which grows as the story progresses, has set its sights on its toughest challenge yet.  Mad Annie is a Southern woman whose two children were accidentally trampled by Union soldiers just before she was raped (quite intentionally) and killed by one of those same men in the latter stages of the War.  Her anger and hatred was so great that she somehow managed to bring death upon all of those Union soldiers and entrap them in her own private purgatory.  Day in and day out for over two centuries, the fateful day is replayed; Annie's children are killed again and again, and the soldiers struggle mightily (but with only rare individual successes) to escape the vengeful woman's eternal punishment.  The Fitzgalen Family and Vanessa in particular are determined to save all of these poor spirit victims (mother, children, and soldiers all) and grant them the eternal piece they have been denied for over two hundred years.  All of this makes for an exciting, if rather drawn-out tale.<br /> I must repeat the fact that I truly enjoyed this book, but the writing is something of a handicap at times.  None of these characters ever seems real, and most of what happens evokes images of puppets being manipulated by strings that, far from being inconspicuous, proclaim their existence in fantastic neon colors.  The dialogue is often forced and artificial, and the changes witnessed in the Fitzgalen family group dynamic over such a short period of time just strike me as far too extreme.  Howells also likes to describe the emotions of his characters in the sappiest of ways; hardly two pages go by without the entire family, men and women, breaking down and bawling over some story or piece of information; on the flip side, they fall into hysterics for the unlikeliest of reasons time and time again.  An exchange of pleasantries can be enough to make two of the characters lifelong friends, and new recruits seem far too easily convinced of Ryan's undeniably unlikely life's story.  Yet, despite a few weak spots in the plot and the kinds of characterization and dialogue issues I have raised, there is something real and undeniably interesting about all of these people and the story of their campaign to rescue the souls of those trapped in this purgatory of one mad woman's making.  I look forward to following the adventures of the Fitzgalen Family in future books, and I am quite confident that the &quot;first novel&quot; issues I have with this first book in the series will fall by the wayside as Howells continues to hone the craft of a potentially notable writer.nt that the &quot;first novel&quot; issues I have with this first book in the series will fall by the wayside as Howells continues to hone the craft of a potentially notable writer.	2003-09-27
968329:US	53016962	ROZ5KTBSJ75IP	0061073075	701443617	X-File Film Scrapbook (The X-Files)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A slick little book for the X Files completists out there	The X Files Fight the Future Scrapbook is an item for those fans out there who just have to have anything and everything related to The X Files.  It features a very basic summary of The X Files: Fight the Future motion picture which can be read in just a few minutes by young and old alike.  The only things it really has going for it are its overall slick look and style, its collection of many impressive color photographs from the movie itself, and its relatively low price.  There is nothing here that is not taken directly from the movie, so only the most loyal and obsessed X Files fans really have any reason to go out of their way to add this scrapbook to their coveted X Files collections.   It's an impressive little scrapbook, but its importance is negligible at best.	2003-09-21
969003:US	53016962	R2F57CDBGLJLL3	B00005VMX2	324634329	College ruined our daughter; letters to parents concerning the baffling world of the college student	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Nothing but the sociopolitical diatribe of a radical	This book is not really what it passes itself off to be.  I thought it would be sort of funny and loaded with constructive ideas about improving parent-college student relations.  The book was published in 1969, though, and it is a direct byproduct of 60s counter-culture; it passes itself off as genuine letters from a college chaplain to concerned parents, but the only thing genuine I found was the chaplain's extremist views.  This book is really not even about college life.  All the author does is criticize students, parents, administrators, teachers, national leaders, etc., for not doing things the way he wants them done.  His supposed letters to concerned parents always end up being political diatribes, ravings on war, the military, industry, and personal criticisms of the parents.  He only rarely mentions the students, and then it is only as a means by which to lecture the parents even more arrogantly and stridently.  Shrader criticizes adults, young people, blacks, whites, rich, poor, liberals, conservatives; as if criticizing everyone under the sun is not enough, this chaplain also has plenty of bad things to say about the formalized church, the pope, Protestants, you name it.  I found this book to be unbelievably difficult if not maddening to read.<br /><br />After lecturing a father who happens to be a major in the army about everything Shrader finds wrong with the military, he almost accidentally remembers to mention the man's daughter; saying he can't do anything to help the girl; he further implores the father to stay far away from his own daughter because she doesn't want to see him.  When this same father dies fighting communism, he writes the wife and repeats his argument that this solder who has died for his country was just a man who died doing something indefensible, and then he less than easily lets the widow, whom he has already essentially called a racist, know that the daughter who now cares nothing for both her dead father and widowed mother will be marrying a black man who hates white people and will strictly control his new bride.<br /><br />He suggests a widow with no other children not call and bother her only daughter more than once a month.  When she apparently criticizes the chaplain's long-haired, foul-mouthed assistant, he contradicts everything he has written before to say that the lady's son had been drinking heavily and feeling a lot of hostility to her, and that his assistant helped the boy get back on an even keel.  He somehow thinks that quoting his assistant's assembly prayers praising homosexuality and unbridled sexual acts will make the parent feel better about the situation and the newly discovered knowledge that her son is gay. He actually insinuates that something in the mother-son agreement probably caused the son to be gay in the first place.  The chaplain's horrible, thoughtless letters push the poor widow over the edge and into a sanitarium.  In another situation, the chaplain sympathizes with a family's financial problems caused by the father's bad health, but then he says the family should just stick the father in a nursing home.  To help a girl who feels she is unattractive, Mr. Compassion tells her that plenty of ugly girls have had decent lives.  He tells the mother that her daughter rarely writes because she has no life.  What a great comfort this \\"chaplain\\" must have been.  This is the last book college students and their parents should read.marrying a black man who hates white people and will strictly control his new bride.    He suggests a widow with no other children not call and bother her only daughter more than once a month.  When she apparently criticizes the chaplain's long-haired, foul-mouthed assistant, he contradicts everything he has written before to say that the lady's son had been drinking heavily and feeling a lot of hostility to her, and that his assistant helped the boy get back on an even keel.  He somehow thinks that quoting his assistant's assembly prayers praising homosexuality and unbridled sexual acts will make the parent feel better about the situation and the newly discovered knowledge that her son is gay. He actually insinuates that something in the mother-son agreement probably caused the son to be gay in the first place.  The chaplain's horrible, thoughtless letters push the poor widow over the edge and into a sanitarium.  In another situation, the chaplain sympathizes with a family's financial problems caused by the father's bad health, but then he says the family should just stick the father in a nursing home.  To help a girl who feels she is unattractive, Mr. Compassion tells her that plenty of ugly girls have had decent lives.  He tells the mother that her daughter rarely writes because she has no life.  What a great comfort this \\"chaplain\\" must have been.  This is the last book college students and their parents should read.	2003-09-20
971660:US	53016962	R1DB534JM5I3Y	1588081621	885249751	USAMRIID's Medical Management of Biological Casualties Handbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A concise BW handbook for military medical personnel	The Medical Management of Biological Casualties Handbook, issued by the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Fort Detrick (Maryland), is a concise guidebook distributed to military medical personnel for use out in the field.  This little blue book serves as a clear and ready reference on the nature and threat of possible biological casualties; it is by no means a complete text or manual dealing with biological weapon agents.  The book also serves as supplemental material for the biological coursework included in the military's Medical Management of Chemical and Biological Casualties Course.  The purpose of this ready reference guide comes down to helping medical personnel identify any possible biological weapons attack against our forces in the field in as timely a fashion as possible.<br />The book offers a breakdown of three main categories of biological agents: bacteria such as anthrax, cholera, plague, tularemia, and Q fever; viruses such as smallpox, Venezuelan equine encephalitis, and viral hemorrhagic fevers; and biological toxins such as ricin, botulinim, staphylococcal enterotoxin B, and T-2 mycotoxins.  In each case, it gives a rundown of signs and symptoms, provides information on diagnosing and treating individuals, and offers advice on safeguarding the health of all others in the area as quickly and efficiently as possible should the extent and source of the casualties indicate the possibility of an actual biological weapons attack.  The book then offers pertinent information on the general topics of detection, personal protection, and decontamination.<br />Given the threats of the world today, I thought the discussion of different biological threat possibilities would prove interesting and informative.  To a degree, I was right in thinking this, as I learned a good bit about threats I was already familiar with as well as threats I had not heard of before.  The overviews of each possible biological weapon agent as well as an overview of the army's work in this critical field were quite informative, but this is really a book for trained medical personnel, and as such much of the medical jargon was lost on me.  Obviously, though, this handbook is laid out in a clear and concise manner and would surely be a ready source of excellent information for medical personnel out in the field.  It also demonstrates how seriously the U.S. military has been taking the threat of biological weapons long before the events of September 11, 2001.overview of the army's work in this critical field were quite informative, but this is really a book for trained medical personnel, and as such much of the medical jargon was lost on me.  Obviously, though, this handbook is laid out in a clear and concise manner and would surely be a ready source of excellent information for medical personnel out in the field.  It also demonstrates how seriously the U.S. military has been taking the threat of biological weapons long before the events of September 11, 2001.	2003-09-18
984253:US	53016962	R1Y6D5ICS73444	0788146548	503753837	Public Report of the White House Security Review	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Proof that a government document can be interesting	On September 12, 1994, Frank Eugene Corder crashed a stolen Cessna onto the south lawn of the White House, skidding into the Executive Mansion itself.  Although the First Family was not in residence at the time, and only minor damage was done to the White House itself, the Treasury Department commissioned a comprehensive review of White House security in the wake of the incident.  On top of an investigation into the Corder incident, the main aim was to evaluate the dangers and most effective responses to air and ground assaults on the White House complex.  The scope and aims of the review were then expanded in the wake of another serious incident when, on October 29, 1994, Francisco Martin Duran fired at least 29 rounds toward the White House, miraculously hitting none of the people located on the White House grounds at that time.  This Public Report of the White House Security Review (May 1995) gives a short description of the two cited incidents, details the methodology by which this truly comprehensive review was carried out, describes several of the Review's recommendations for improving White House security, and provides a short summary of the history of Presidential security.<br />Naturally, the official Review was much larger, running close to 1000 pages, and a great deal of the information and recommendations could not be made public for security reasons, but I found this Treasury publication quite interesting.  I learned a great deal about the origin and evolution of the Secret Service, found information on security breaches I had never even heard of, and gained a greater appreciation of the thoroughness and professionalism of the Secret Service.  The counterterrorism concerns that led to the closing of the road in front of the White House to vehicular traffic were also of great interest in the light of post-9/11 American life.  This public report is basically an aging government document that few people will ever see or read, but the information on past security breaches on the White House grounds proved quite interesting to me.  The White House has and always will be the people's house, and one cannot help but be impressed by the zeal with which the Secret Service balances its protection of the White House with the uniquely American commitment of making the executive residence as accessible as possible to the citizenry.	2003-09-08
988695:US	53016962	RZYGUPCM8OFJX	0440237246	483714914	Area 51: Nosferatu	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The first book in a new Area 51 series	Having enjoyed immensely the seven books in Robert Doherty's Area 51 series, I was thrilled to learn that he would be writing a new series of books set in that same world.  Area 51: Nosferatu is the first of that new series, and I have to admit that Doherty really surprised me with the subject matter: vampires.  At first glance, one might question the introduction of vampires into the Area 51 mythology, thinking that vampires have been done to death and don't seem to belong in Doherty's alternate history of the earth.  To Doherty's credit, however, the new book does work, providing a new twist on the creation and nature of vampires while melding his Undead characters quite well into human history.<br />The novel opens in the immediate aftermath of the human victory over the Airlia, extraterrestrials who had used and abused mankind for as long as men had walked on two legs.  The Eldest among the world's small number of vampires, Nosferatu, knows that the Airlia defeat has finally made conditions right for a new age, an age of the Undead.  All he needs is a supply of pure Airlia blood, which can be taken from the frozen dead bodies of three aliens near the top of Mount Everest, in the defeated Airlia mothership orbiting the earth, and in a few other hard-to-reach places.  His one true aim is to awaken his beloved Nekhbet, who has passed the millennia in a deep sleep, waiting for the pure Airlia blood she must have in order to leave her protective tomb.  Nosferatu's task is complicated by the existence of a rogue vampire named Vampyr, a man bent on destroying the Airlia, mankind, and any fellow vampire who gets in his way.<br />Nosferatu and five other vampires were created before 8000 BC to serve as little more than the food of the gods.  Chained inside a tube, they awoke only to feed on cold human blood or to be fed upon by the gods.  When the vampires managed to escape, Nekhbet was captured and sentenced to a living death inside her tube.  Nosferatu's love for her grows stronger every day they are apart.  In this world, vampires are half-Airlia and half-human; they need human blood in order to feed the Airlia half of the blood what it needs to keep them alive.  Nosferatu kills only when he has to in order to survive, quite unlike Vampyr.  Nosferatu works silently in the background of the world, but Vampyr becomes famous under a guise of names for his savage cruelty: Vlad Tepes is by no means Vampyr's only incarnation in the history of violence on earth.  After following these vampires over the course of history, the final chapters describe the inevitable confrontation of the two vampiric forces, closing out quite strongly while setting the stage for the next book.  While the novel doesn't quite build the suspense that characterized the original Area 51 books, the incorporation of the unusual yet really quite beautiful love story between Nosferatu and Nekhbet gives it a personal dimension lacking in Doherty's previous books.grows stronger every day they are apart.  In this world, vampires are half-Airlia and half-human; they need human blood in order to feed the Airlia half of the blood what it needs to keep them alive.  Nosferatu kills only when he has to in order to survive, quite unlike Vampyr.  Nosferatu works silently in the background of the world, but Vampyr becomes famous under a guise of names for his savage cruelty: Vlad Tepes is by no means Vampyr's only incarnation in the history of violence on earth.  After following these vampires over the course of history, the final chapters describe the inevitable confrontation of the two vampiric forces, closing out quite strongly while setting the stage for the next book.  While the novel doesn't quite build the suspense that characterized the original Area 51 books, the incorporation of the unusual yet really quite beautiful love story between Nosferatu and Nekhbet gives it a personal dimension lacking in Doherty's previous books.	2003-09-04
993783:US	53016962	R2DIK026H3GMGZ	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of science fiction's major triumphs	Arthur C. Clarke's monumental novel 2001: A Space Odyssey is top-notch science fiction that more than earns its spot among the greatest works published in the genre.  Reading the novel is quite a different experience from watching Stanley Kubrick's wildly famous movie adaptation of the story.  The movie is far too abstract and vague for my tastes, concentrating more on visual wonders than sound plot development.  Many of the questions left unanswered in the movie (along with some questions and answers the movie never even addressed) can be found in the novel, and this made for a much more rewarding and satisfying 2001 experience for me.  Moviegoers had to wait sixteen years to learn the real story of Hal's failure, but Clarke explains it (and in more detail) in the pages of his original 2001 novel.  There are actually a surprising number of differences between the novel and the film, which strikes me as somewhat strange given the fact that the book was inspired by the idea of the film; as a matter of fact, much of the writing took place during the film's production, and Clarke has said that some movie shots led him to make changes to the novel as he was writing it.<br />The story begins in the ancient past, providing much more detail about the appearance of a huge black monolith on earth and its deliberative interference with the man-apes of the area. The film fails to convey the overwhelming impact of the alien monolith on the evolution of life on earth, and that is one important reason why I find the film too vague. The events of Clarke's first few chapters are of great importance in one's understanding of the story, and all the facts become clear in this book.  One will also find some major differences between the novel and the movie in terms of the setting of the final events.  In the novel, the crucial mission goes to Saturn, whereas the movie takes us no farther than Jupiter; this doesn't change anything really, but Clarke has said that Kubrick made the right decision and saved him some embarrassment from making a visual representation of Saturn that later failed to hold up to more recent scientific discoveries about the ringed planet.<br />Many of the crucial events onboard the Saturn-bound spaceship Discovery also differ significantly between book and movie.  Clarke's exposition of the growing doubts expressed by Captains Poole and Bowman over the performance of the onboard supercomputer Hal works much better than Kubrick's lip reading explication, and there is a lot more information provided here about the whys and wherefores of Hal's troubling and duplicitous actions.  The pivotal events of Hal's takeover of the ship play much better in the book as well, and the events as described here are actually much more exciting and convincing than the events you see in the film.  The novel concludes with a much more revealing look at Bowman's journey beyond Saturn into infinity.  Here, Clarke even goes into some detail about the creators of the monoliths, which is a topic the movie never really addresses at all.<br />In the end, the novel is just much more compelling than the film, and for that reason I would recommend watching the movie before reading the book.  Kubrick intentionally left his film rather vague and open-ended, and a reading of the much more compelling and informative novel may well rob you of whatever small joys you might otherwise find in the film.  In the same vein, the paucity of answers in the movie does little to detract from one's enjoyment of and fascination with the novel.t decision and saved him some embarrassment from making a visual representation of Saturn that later failed to hold up to more recent scientific discoveries about the ringed planet.  <br />Many of the crucial events onboard the Saturn-bound spaceship Discovery also differ significantly between book and movie.  Clarke's exposition of the growing doubts expressed by Captains Poole and Bowman over the performance of the onboard supercomputer Hal works much better than Kubrick's lip reading explication, and there is a lot more information provided here about the whys and wherefores of Hal's troubling and duplicitous actions.  The pivotal events of Hal's takeover of the ship play much better in the book as well, and the events as described here are actually much more exciting and convincing than the events you see in the film.  The novel concludes with a much more revealing look at Bowman's journey beyond Saturn into infinity.  Here, Clarke even goes into some detail about the creators of the monoliths, which is a topic the movie never really addresses at all.<br />In the end, the novel is just much more compelling than the film, and for that reason I would recommend watching the movie before reading the book.  Kubrick intentionally left his film rather vague and open-ended, and a reading of the much more compelling and informative novel may well rob you of whatever small joys you might otherwise find in the film.  In the same vein, the paucity of answers in the movie does little to detract from one's enjoyment of and fascination with the novel.	2003-08-30
997140:US	53016962	R3E21KLBQ9A6GF	0425165582	316168356	Books of Blood, Vols. 1-3	Books	5	63	71	N	N	The perfect introduction to the dark genius of Clive Barker	Clive Barker did not want his Books of Blood broken up into individual volumes when they were published, yet that is what happened.  Now, the first three volumes are available in one book, serving as the perfect introduction to Barker's unique style of horror.  There are some really groundbreaking stories included here, alongside of a dud or two from Volume Two, but each and every story exhibits the genius and originality of its author's dark vision.<br />The initial offering, The Book of Blood, stands out as a unique ghost story, but it also serves as a provocative abstract for everything Barker sought to accomplish with these stories.  After this enticing introductory tale, we head below the streets of New York to sneak a ride on The Midnight Meat Train.  This story is vintage Clive Barker, full of blood and gore.  Barker isn't trying to drown the reader in blood as a means to hide any lack of skill on his part, though, because the skill is undeniably there for all to see.  In The Yattering and Jack, a dark comedy farce, a poor demon does everything he can think of to make the unshakeable Jack miserable, driving himself almost mad in the process.  I think of The Yattering and Jack as an amusing sort of Barker bedtime story.  Pig Blood Blues forces the casual reader to once again don hip hugger boots for a trek into gore and depravity.  At a certain school for wayward boys, the other white meat is not pork.  Sex, Death and Starshine is a good story, touching upon the needs of the dead to be entertained every once in a while, but it lacks a certain oomph.<br />Dread is a somewhat sadistic tale of one man's obsession with death.  His is a hands-on endeavor, as he seeks to look the beast directly in the eye by studying the effects of dread and the realization of imminent death in the eyes of his fellow man.  Dread is a psychologically disturbing read, one which succeeds quite well indeed in spite of a rather pat ending.  Hell's Event tells the story of a charity race, only this particular contest pits a minion of the underworld against human runners, with the control of the very government hinging upon the outcome.  Next up is Jacqueline Ess: Her Last Will and Testament, a disappointing story in which the main character's special abilities to control the things and people around her wind up wasted.  The Skins of the Fathers is not a bad story, but it is quite weird.  A sometimes almost comical group of inhuman, bizarre creatures comes to a small desert town to reclaim one of their own, born five years earlier to a human mother.  A puffed up sheriff and belligerent posse of townsfolk lend comic relief as much as tension to the story's plot of borderline absurdity.<br />I love the unusual premise and the surreal quality of Son of Celluloid.  The back wall behind the screen of an old movie theatre has seen so many famous lives projected upon it that the essence of those screen legends has germinated within it.  The only thing needed to bring the screen personalities to life is a catalyst, which comes in the form of a dying criminal.  The man himself is of no consequence, but he has within him a force possessing a single-minded drive to grow and thrive.  Next up is Rawhead Rex, one of Barker's more violent stories.  There are creatures that thrived on earth long before man helped force them to the brink of extinction, and things get pretty gruesome when one fellow unknowingly unseals the prison in which such a monster has been sealed for eons.  Murder of a more human kind rests at the heart of Confessions of a (Pornographer's) Shroud.  This tale doesn't succeed completely in my estimation, and some might even find it oddly laughable, as the main character is an amorphous blob of a dead man's essence who reconstitutes the form of his human body in a death shroud.  Scape-Goats is a little island of death story, the most interesting aspect of which is its viewpoint; it is not often that Barker tells a tale from the first-person perspective of a woman.  The final story, Human Remains, offers Barker's typically unusual slant on the old doppelganger motif.<br />I have saved the worst and best of the collected stories for special mention.  New Murders in the Rue Morgue is by far the worst short story Barker has ever written.  We are led to believe Poe's classic story The Murders in the Rue Morgue was based on fact, and now the modern representative of the Dupin blood finds himself mired in an extraordinary, eerily similar, and exceedingly ludicrous case of his own.  On the flip side, the most impressive story told in these pages is In the Hills, the Cities.  Two male lovers touring the hidden sights of Yugoslavia become the reluctant witnesses to a sight few men could ever even conceive of when a unique traditional battle between the citizens of two adjacent towns takes an unexpected and ever-so-destructive turn.  If you want to know what the big deal about Clive Barker is, this is the story you need to read.  Books of Blood immediately established Barker as a giant in the genre and should be required reading for all fans of extreme and intellectually challenging horror.spective of a woman.  The final story, Human Remains, offers Barker's typically unusual slant on the old doppelganger motif.<br />I have saved the worst and best of the collected stories for special mention.  New Murders in the Rue Morgue is by far the worst short story Barker has ever written.  We are led to believe Poe's classic story The Murders in the Rue Morgue was based on fact, and now the modern representative of the Dupin blood finds himself mired in an extraordinary, eerily similar, and exceedingly ludicrous case of his own.  On the flip side, the most impressive story told in these pages is In the Hills, the Cities.  Two male lovers touring the hidden sights of Yugoslavia become the reluctant witnesses to a sight few men could ever even conceive of when a unique traditional battle between the citizens of two adjacent towns takes an unexpected and ever-so-destructive turn.  If you want to know what the big deal about Clive Barker is, this is the story you need to read.  Books of Blood immediately established Barker as a giant in the genre and should be required reading for all fans of extreme and intellectually challenging horror.	2003-08-27
998619:US	53016962	R25VAKA3G61BLR	037570373X	829883086	The Dreaming Jewels	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Sturgeon's moving yet imperfect first novel	The Dreaming Jewels (also published under the title The Synthetic Man) is the first novel by Theodore Sturgeon, one of science fiction's most legendary writers.  Sturgeon had already found success publishing short stories by 1950, but this first novel proved he could sustain longer fictional pieces without losing his vintage magic.  The Dreaming Jewels is by no means a perfect novel, but it does showcase Sturgeon's remarkable talent for humanizing his stories and thus focusing his literary microscope on humanity and its proper place in society.  Science fiction as a genre can, in general, be criticized for a coldness and overemphasis on science rather than people, but Sturgeon clearly had a special gift for delving into the hearts of his fictional creations.<br />The main character of the novel is a boy named Horty.  Sturgeon delivers a sometimes heartbreaking description of the little fellow's life.  Orphaned as a baby, he spent time in an orphanage before being taken in (for all the wrong reasons) by a horrible judge and his weak-willed wife.  All he really has in life is an old jack-in-the-box, the eyes of which consist of two remarkable crystals.  As the novel opens, Horty has been caught eating ants underneath the school bleachers; here is your first clue that Horty is not your typical kid.  His guardians, never kind and caring at the best of times, are furious, and the ensuing dramatic confrontation ends with Horty running away, leaving three severed fingers behind.  He sneaks on to a carnival truck and finds himself living happily, disguised as a girl for reasons the novel makes plain, among a host of strange but caring \\"outsider\\" type of people.  During his stay of several years, his severed fingers grow back and he does not grow at all, further clues that he is not a normal human child.  The owner of the carnival is a rather vicious fellow out to destroy humanity with a source of crystal power he researches and experiments with obsessively.  Eventually, all of the people Horty has known, both the good and the bad, come together for an inevitable confrontation.  Horty can only survive by figuring out exactly who and what he really is.<br />The relationships between Horty and his carnival friends are really quite touching, and the evil of those who would use or abuse Horty is equally disturbing.  Sturgeon can put an incredible amount of emotion into the shortest of sentences, and the reader definitely becomes emotionally involved in the story.  One of the problems with The Dreaming Jewels, though, concerns the nature of the important crystals described in the story and the means by which they can provide power to anyone who can truly communicate with them.  Some of the mystery is stripped away in the first few pages of the novel, although the small reference I refer to could be overlooked by the casual reader.  The fantasy elements, in the end, just come off as slightly absurd.  This does nothing to rob the novel of its immense human warmth, but it did have a somewhat negative impact on my reading of the book.of the people Horty has known, both the good and the bad, come together for an inevitable confrontation.  Horty can only survive by figuring out exactly who and what he really is.<br />The relationships between Horty and his carnival friends are really quite touching, and the evil of those who would use or abuse Horty is equally disturbing.  Sturgeon can put an incredible amount of emotion into the shortest of sentences, and the reader definitely becomes emotionally involved in the story.  One of the problems with The Dreaming Jewels, though, concerns the nature of the important crystals described in the story and the means by which they can provide power to anyone who can truly communicate with them.  Some of the mystery is stripped away in the first few pages of the novel, although the small reference I refer to could be overlooked by the casual reader.  The fantasy elements, in the end, just come off as slightly absurd.  This does nothing to rob the novel of its immense human warmth, but it did have a somewhat negative impact on my reading of the book.	2003-08-26
1000864:US	53016962	RXXU9FPZY58ND	0375703713	957405941	More Than Human	Books	5	174	180	N	N	One of SF's most challenging, thought-provoking novels	Theodore Sturgeon's More Than Human is, quite simply, one of the best and most original science fiction novels of all time; it is also one of the more neglected classics in the field.  This magnificent example of literary science fiction belongs on the same shelf as Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land and Alfred Bester's first two novels.  I was already a Sturgeon fan before reading More Than Human, but even I almost scoffed at comparisons of this novel with the work of William Faulkner (my literary hero).  Much to my surprise, though, there is indeed a Faulknerian aspect to this novel.  The narrative radiates traces of stream of consciousness and moves quietly back and forth in time from place to place as it approaches the essence of a philosophical revelation from multiple levels.  For this reason, you will most likely either love or hate the book, for its greatest strength is very likely, to some readers, its greatest weakness.<br />More Than Human is such a unique novel that some individuals may not consider it science fiction at all; the science wrapped into these pages is of the most abstract and philosophical sort, centering on the question of the future evolution of the human race.  The novel is broken up into three very distinct sections, each division marked by a shift in both emphasis and viewpoint.  Initially, it can be a little difficult to get your bearings after one of these jumps, but all of the pieces of this giant puzzle come together in the end; I would qualify this by saying that the ultimate resolution happens in the reader's mind and is not necessarily spelled out by the author on the final page.  The novel features some rather surprising plot twists along the way, and sometimes the reader may think Sturgeon has wandered far off the beaten track.  In a sense he has because More Than Human marks the birth of a new kind of science fiction; rest assured that Sturgeon knows exactly where he is going from page one.<br />The novel opens with a self-described and self-acknowledged idiot living the only life he has ever known, one of utter loneliness and nothingness.  His one gift is an ability to make people do things for him by looking at them in a certain way.  His encounter with a unique, incredibly over sheltered little girl in the woods leads to an early scene of great tragedy and a turning point in the young man's life.  Lone, as he manages to name himself, is taken in by a farming couple and introduced to the life he had never known.  Elsewhere, a young girl named Janie lives a life of unhappiness under the roof of her unfit mother.  She has her own special gift, the ability to move things with her mind, and one day she comes to know a pair of black children who can disappear and reappear at will.  All of these characters somehow find each other and begin to see themselves as something more than human after a mongoloid baby is added to the strange little family.  Taken together, they are one person: Lone is the head, Janie and the twins are the legs and arms, and Baby is the brilliant thinker that only Janie can communicate with telepathically.  What forms out of these interconnected lives is a new type of human being: Human Gestalt.  Individual weakness is subsumed by group superhuman strength, but this new type of human is lonely and prone to make mistakes as it struggles to understand itself.<br />The three sections are all remarkably different, yet they work together in much the same fashion as the children to become something incredibly powerful.  In broad terms, the first section describes the birth of Human Gestalt, the second section describes its search for a purpose in life and a reason for being, and the third and most important section addresses the ethical and moral ramifications of such a new type of superhuman.  The novel is told with such subtle power and mind-numbing beauty that any description I attempt to make will not do it justice.  This is thought-provoking science fiction at its best.est.	2003-08-24
1008111:US	53016962	R3JOQYADX7KFOM	0425043398	753007804	Enemy Star	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An early classic by a legend of the genre	Poul Anderson, who passed away in 2001, was one of the true super luminaries in the field of science fiction, and it is unfortunate indeed that much of his writing, amounting to more than one hundred books, is hard to find and thus eroding from collective science fiction memory.  The Enemy Stars is one of his earlier novels and serves as a wonderful way for readers to introduce or reintroduce themselves to this science fiction legend.  This rather short novel first appeared in the magazine Astounding Science Fiction with the title We Have Fed Our Seas in August and September 1958.  The title was changed, for reasons I certainly don't understand, to The Enemy Stars, and the book was nominated for a Hugo award for best science fiction novel of 1959.  In 1979, Anderson went back and slightly revised the novel, principally updating the hard science fiction aspects of the tale based on the knowledge gained over the course of the twenty years since the book was written.<br />I can't say I was blown away by this novel, although it is certainly a good read.  In my opinion, it is too short; it took me a while to get really acquainted with each of the characters, and by that time there was too little insight left to share before the rapidly approaching ending.  There are some wonderful ideas wrapped into this narrative, but I didn't feel as if enough of them were given the time and care to make them truly flourish.  The historical context of the drama also wasn't exploited as much as I would have liked.  Basically, at some time in the future, Earth and its colonial satellites and planets maintain a tough alliance, with suspicion and dislike seemingly bred into the respective settlers.  The government is some type of one-world entity called the Protectorate, but we don't learn much about the system beyond the fact that many men oppose it both philosophically and practically.  In this world, a spaceship exists far out in space, a ship launched by a country that no longer exists.  Scientists can effectively &quot;beam up&quot; to the ship across vast distances in space, and four very different men do so in order to study a newly discovered dark star.  Naturally, something goes wrong, and the foursome must look death in the face and work together in order to survive.  Any truths we learn from the novel come out over the course of this life and death drama in space.<br />The Enemy Stars didn't really provide the level of philosophical revelation I half expected at the end, and certain parts of the story (especially that concerning Earth's government) never got the attention they seemed to deserve, yet this was still an enjoyable and thought-provoking read.  The science is definitely of the hard science fiction variety, yet the human element takes its rightful place at the core of the novel.  Man's infinite search for truth, for a reason for being, is what Anderson approaches via The Enemy Stars, and while he might not have put a spotlight on the true answer of existence, he does manage to sweep his flashlight of imagination over some important and meaningful aspects of that ultimate answer.ts.  Scientists can effectively &quot;beam up&quot; to the ship across vast distances in space, and four very different men do so in order to study a newly discovered dark star.  Naturally, something goes wrong, and the foursome must look death in the face and work together in order to survive.  Any truths we learn from the novel come out over the course of this life and death drama in space.  <br />The Enemy Stars didn't really provide the level of philosophical revelation I half expected at the end, and certain parts of the story (especially that concerning Earth's government) never got the attention they seemed to deserve, yet this was still an enjoyable and thought-provoking read.  The science is definitely of the hard science fiction variety, yet the human element takes its rightful place at the core of the novel.  Man's infinite search for truth, for a reason for being, is what Anderson approaches via The Enemy Stars, and while he might not have put a spotlight on the true answer of existence, he does manage to sweep his flashlight of imagination over some important and meaningful aspects of that ultimate answer.	2003-08-18
1008884:US	53016962	RO9NPGQ7VFXO5	0425093476	450693829	003: Books of Blood, Volume Three	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Barker really gets down to business in Volume 3	Clive Barker is all business in his Books of Blood Volume Three, and that business is sex and violence.  There is no stray dark comedy piece along the lines of Volume One's The Yattering and Jack to be found in these pages.  These five stories take us to realms of pain and bloody death, sometimes pushing the envelope on the new kind of dark horror Barker helped pioneer.<br />Son of Celluloid is by far my favorite of these stories.  I love the unusual premise and the surreal quality of the piece.  Basically, the back wall behind the screen of an old movie theatre has seen so many famous lives projected upon it that somehow the essence of those screen legends has germinated within its neglected existence.  The only thing needed to bring the screen personalities to life is a catalyst, which comes in the form of a dying criminal.  The man himself is of no consequence, but he has within him a force with ambition and a single-minded drive to grow and thrive.  This driving force is cancer, and I find Barker's unusual appraisal of the silent killer to be a fascinating one.  Next up is Rawhead Rex, one of Barker's more violent stories.  There are creatures that thrived on earth long before man helped force them to the brink of extinction, and things get pretty gruesome when one fellow unknowingly unseals the prison in which such a monster has been sealed for eons.  Murder of a more human (albeit post-human) kind rests at the heart of Confessions of a (Pornographer's) Shroud.  This tale doesn't succeed completely in my estimation, and some might even find it oddly laughable, as the main character is an amorphous blob of a dead man's essence who reconstitutes the form of his human body in his own death shroud.  Scape-Goats is a little island of death story, the most interesting aspect of which is its viewpoint; it is not often that Barker tells a tale from the first-person perspective of a woman.  The final story, Human Remains, offers Barker's typically unusual slant on the old doppelganger motif.<br />All in all, this is a fine collection of stories.  Son of Celluloid borders on greatness, Rawhead Rex helps sate the appetites of those seeking blood and gore, and the three accompanying pieces are more than capable of holding one's interest if not fascination from start to finish.  This third volume, unlike its immediate predecessor, stands as a most worthy successor indeed to the genius displayed in Clive Barker's Books of Blood Volume One.old doppelganger motif.<br />All in all, this is a fine collection of stories.  Son of Celluloid borders on greatness, Rawhead Rex helps sate the appetites of those seeking blood and gore, and the three accompanying pieces are more than capable of holding one's interest if not fascination from start to finish.   This third volume, unlike its immediate predecessor, stands as a most worthy successor indeed to the genius displayed in Clive Barker's Books of Blood Volume One.	2003-08-17
1009573:US	53016962	R28AR6D3LPWONV	0425087395	916774879	002: Books of Blood Volume 2	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Clive Barker at his best	This second volume of Clive Barker's Books of Blood pales in comparison to the first volume, four of its five stories coming up short in my estimation.  The book does get off to a rousing start with Dread, a somewhat sadistic tale of one man's obsession with death and the fear of it.  According to the mysterious grad student Quaid, true philosophy, not what passes for philosophy in the universities, is a beast; everything really comes down to one thing only, which is fear.  So begins Quaid's personal instruction course of Dread 101.  His is a hands-on endeavor, as he seeks to look the beast directly in the eye by studying the effects of dread and the realization of imminent death in the eyes of his fellow man, the closest two representatives of which are two of his &quot;students.&quot;  Dread is a psychologically disturbing read, one which succeeds quite well indeed in spite of a rather pat ending.  From this point, the book is all downhill.<br />Hell's Event tells the story of a charity race, only this is no ordinary race.  Once every century, this particular race pits a minion of the underworld against human runners, with the state and control of the whole government hinging upon the outcome.  Much like Stephen King's The Long Walk, it does not pay to finish behind the winner, for truly to the victor go the spoils.  Next up is Jacqueline Ess: Her Last Will and Testament, a story in which the main character's very special abilities for controlling her environment and those in it winds up wasted with little to show for the effort.  The Skins of the Fathers is not a bad story, but it is quite on the weird side.  A sometimes almost comical group of inhuman, bizarre creatures comes to a small desert town to reclaim one of their own, born five years earlier to its human mother.  A puffed up sheriff and belligerent posse of townsfolk lend comic relief as much as tension to the story's plot of borderline absurdity.  The final story here is New Murders in the Rue Morgue, and it is almost surely the worst piece of fiction Clive Barker ever wrote.  The protagonist is a retired artist and, so we are told, descendant of M. Dupin.  Yes, we are led to believe, Edgar Allan Poe's classic story The Murders in the Rue Morgue was based on fact and not fancy, and now the modern representative of the Dupin blood finds himself mired in an extraordinary, eerily similar, and exceedingly ludicrous case of his own.<br />Obviously, I don't consider Volume 2 of the Books of Blood to represent Clive Barker at anything near his best; this is not to say these stories (excluding New Murders in the Rue Morgue) are not worth reading, though.  Dread is a fine piece of work, and the next three stories will hold your attention throughout, although they may well leave you feeling indifferent and more than a tad disappointed.and it is almost surely the worst piece of fiction Clive Barker ever wrote.  The protagonist is a retired artist and, so we are told, descendant of M. Dupin.  Yes, we are led to believe, Edgar Allan Poe's classic story The Murders in the Rue Morgue was based on fact and not fancy, and now the modern representative of the Dupin blood finds himself mired in an extraordinary, eerily similar, and exceedingly ludicrous case of his own.  <br />Obviously, I don't consider Volume 2 of the Books of Blood to represent Clive Barker at anything near his best; this is not to say these stories (excluding New Murders in the Rue Morgue) are not worth reading, though.  Dread is a fine piece of work, and the next three stories will hold your attention throughout, although they may well leave you feeling indifferent and more than a tad disappointed.	2003-08-16
1011597:US	53016962	R3PX9CLO2AKR8S	0425083896	316168356	Clive Barker's Books of Blood 1	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The birth of a true horror visionary	With Volume One of Books of Blood, Clive Barker burst upon the horror scene like a giant supernova exploding in space, mixing an obvious love for the more gruesome aspects of the dark literary arts with a vision and power all but unheard of.  Stephen King said that the very future of horror was named Clive Barker.  With that endorsement, such an eye-catching title, and a wonderfully horror-laden cover image (much better than the reprints of recent years), I simply had to have this book.  An introduction by horror maestro Ramsey Campbell further fuelled my fires of interest.  I was still rather new to the horror scene at that time, and while I knew even then that Barker was constructing stories unlike any I had ever read, it was several years later that I truly realized the astounding originality and creativeness of this man's genius.<br />The initial offering, The Book of Blood, stands out as a unique ghost story in its own right, but it also serves as a provocative abstract for everything Barker sought to accomplish with these stories (and I should note that he originally wanted all of the volumes of Books of Blood to be published together in one book).  After this enticing introductory tale, we head below the streets of New York to sneak a ride on The Midnight Meat Train.  This story is vintage Clive Barker.  While it is full of blood and gore, it is clearly not a case of gore for gore's sake.  Barker isn't trying to drown the reader in blood as a means to hide any lack of skill on his part because the skill is undeniably there for all to see.  This is a story that you will not soon forget.<br />Barker really changes his line of attack in the next story, The Yattering and Jack.  The Yattering is a demon sent to torment and destroy the sanity of a little nobody named Jack.  In this dark comedy farce, the poor Yattering does everything he can think of to make the unshakeable Jack miserable, driving himself almost mad in the process.  I think of The Yattering and Jack as an amusing sort of Barker bedtime story.  Pig Blood Blues forces the casual reader to once again don hip hugger boots for a trek into gore and depravity.  At a certain school for wayward boys, a monster resides in a pig sty on the campus farm, a menacing sow who thinks that pigs are more equal than humans; in this place, the other white meat is not pork.  Sex, Death and Starshine is a good story, but it alone among these offerings seems to be lacking a certain oomph.  The idea behind the story is fantastic, however, as it touches upon the needs of the dead to be entertained every once in a while.<br />Easily, the most impressive story told in these pages is In the Hills, the Cities.  The impact of this pioneering, bold, brilliant story is akin to that of Shirley Jackson's unforgettable tale The Lottery.  Two male lovers touring the hidden sights of Yugoslavia become the reluctant witnesses to a sight few men could ever even conceive of when a unique traditional battle between the citizens of two adjacent towns takes an unexpected and ever-so-destructive turn.  If you want to know what the big deal about Clive Barker is, this is the story you need to read.<br />This first volume of Barker's horror-laden creations left no doubt in the minds of most horror fans that fresh blood had arrived to increase the vitality and further the maturing process of a genre always failing to win the widespread respect it deserves.  While Barker's dark visions will not suit the taste of even some traditional horror fans, he more than deserves a choice seat at the table of the horror gods.Jack as an amusing sort of Barker bedtime story.  Pig Blood Blues forces the casual reader to once again don hip hugger boots for a trek into gore and depravity.  At a certain school for wayward boys, a monster resides in a pig sty on the campus farm, a menacing sow who thinks that pigs are more equal than humans; in this place, the other white meat is not pork.  Sex, Death and Starshine is a good story, but it alone among these offerings seems to be lacking a certain oomph.  The idea behind the story is fantastic, however, as it touches upon the needs of the dead to be entertained every once in a while. <br />Easily, the most impressive story told in these pages is In the Hills, the Cities.  The impact of this pioneering, bold, brilliant story is akin to that of Shirley Jackson's unforgettable tale The Lottery.  Two male lovers touring the hidden sights of Yugoslavia become the reluctant witnesses to a sight few men could ever even conceive of when a unique traditional battle between the citizens of two adjacent towns takes an unexpected and ever-so-destructive turn.  If you want to know what the big deal about Clive Barker is, this is the story you need to read.  <br />This first volume of Barker's horror-laden creations left no doubt in the minds of most horror fans that fresh blood had arrived to increase the vitality and further the maturing process of a genre always failing to win the widespread respect it deserves.  While Barker's dark visions will not suit the taste of even some traditional horror fans, he more than deserves a choice seat at the table of the horror gods.	2003-08-14
1015666:US	53016962	RZZQUCC65G4OE	0812568958	793261777	The Jewel of Seven Stars (Tor Classics)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Stoker's best known post-Dracula novel	Originally published in 1903, some six years after Dracula, Bram Stoker's The Jewel of Seven Stars is a singular work of dark fantasy.  It reads as if it were one of the author's earliest writings, espousing a much more awkward style than that which permeates Stoker's most famous novel.  The characters are stereotypical of the time, the dialogue is sometimes forced and so Victorian in its manner that it fails to draw the reader fully into the story, and it leaves too many unanswered questions in its wake.  Perhaps the most interesting aspect of this, Stoker's most familiar novel after Dracula, is its storyline built around the resurrection of an ancient Egyptian mummy.  Few people today realize that Stoker not only truly defined the vampire genre, he helped give rise to the mummy genre as well.  By far the most fascinating aspect of this tale is its ending, though, which I will discuss below.<br />The first several chapters of the novel call to my mind the host of whodunit films released in the 1940s and 1950s.  Malcolm Ross, a barrister, is called to the home of Margaret Trelawney, a young lady he just recently met and took a fancy to, in the middle of the night.  When he arrives at the home, he finds policemen, a doctor, Margaret, and the household staff in a great tizzy over an attack made upon Margaret's father.  The man was found on the floor of his room, his left arm slashed in a number of places.  The investigation begins, and a constant watch is held over the injured man, who has fallen into a cataleptic state.  The next night, under the eyes of Ross, Margaret, and a nurse, a second baffling attack takes place by an unknown assailant.  It soon becomes apparent that the person behind the attacks is attempting to gain access to the safe located in the room.  Suspicions abound as both the police and the doctor are baffled by the situation.  At this point, we begin to learn the history of the Egyptian relics housed in the Trelawney house and hear the story of the ancient Egyptian queen Tera and her apparent plans for reincarnating herself with the help of a beautiful jewel of seven stars, the very item housed in Trelawney's safe.  The novel ends with a Great Experiment in which Tera's plans for a rebirth are carried out, the results of which fail to satisfy this reader.<br />Published in 1903, this novel is steeped in Victorian idealism, particularly in its treatment of Margaret and the courtship between her and Malcolm.  Modern readers may find this aspect of the novel either romantic or silly.  In addition, the respectful and entirely proper conversations between characters, especially in times of suspicion or fear, may seem strikingly quaint to today's readers.  The second half of the novel, which tells the story of the ancient mummy and lays the groundwork for the climax of the Great Experiment, is much more interesting than the preceding pages, yet there are elements to the evolving story that fail to make perfect sense.<br />The Jewel of Seven Stars is unique in that it features two different endings, neither of which fully satisfies.  The accepted version, which you will find in modern publications, is not the original ending but is instead a rewrite first found in the 1919 edition of the novel.  It is anticlimactic at best and seems oddly different from the novel as a whole.  There is actually some speculation that the final couple of pages of this ending were not even written by Stoker, who was dead and buried seven years prior to this amended edition's release.  The original 1903 ending is a much better if rather shocking conclusion to a story that openly hints of ancient horrors; it is a pity that the original ending has been superseded by a questionable and quite dissatisfying rewrite.  In any case, though, The Jewel of Seven Stars is an interesting if flawed novel that shows few signs of the literary magic with which Stoker's masterpiece, Dracula, is infused.e ancient Egyptian queen Tera and her apparent plans for reincarnating herself with the help of a beautiful jewel of seven stars, the very item housed in Trelawney's safe.  The novel ends with a Great Experiment in which Tera's plans for a rebirth are carried out, the results of which fail to satisfy this reader.<br />Published in 1903, this novel is steeped in Victorian idealism, particularly in its treatment of Margaret and the courtship between her and Malcolm.  Modern readers may find this aspect of the novel either romantic or silly.  In addition, the respectful and entirely proper conversations between characters, especially in times of suspicion or fear, may seem strikingly quaint to today's readers.  The second half of the novel, which tells the story of the ancient mummy and lays the groundwork for the climax of the Great Experiment, is much more interesting than the preceding pages, yet there are elements to the evolving story that fail to make perfect sense.  <br />The Jewel of Seven Stars is unique in that it features two different endings, neither of which fully satisfies.  The accepted version, which you will find in modern publications, is not the original ending but is instead a rewrite first found in the 1919 edition of the novel.  It is anticlimactic at best and seems oddly different from the novel as a whole.  There is actually some speculation that the final couple of pages of this ending were not even written by Stoker, who was dead and buried seven years prior to this amended edition's release.  The original 1903 ending is a much better if rather shocking conclusion to a story that openly hints of ancient horrors; it is a pity that the original ending has been superseded by a questionable and quite dissatisfying rewrite.  In any case, though, The Jewel of Seven Stars is an interesting if flawed novel that shows few signs of the literary magic with which Stoker's masterpiece, Dracula, is infused.	2003-08-11
1017604:US	53016962	R34O0TS3JOF0O3	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	86	95	N	N	An unforgettable read with profound implications	William Peter Blatty's seminal novel of demonic possession took the nation and much of the world by storm when it was published in 1971, and the movie adaptation of The Exorcist ranks as one of the most famous horror movies of all time.  Many, many readers over the years have described it as a quite unsettling if not frightening read; I envy these people because I didn't find the book at all shocking or scary.  I was actually more affected by the inner turmoil of Father Karras than anything else.  His doubts over his own faith, the horrible guilt he feels for having left his aged mother alone when he became a Jesuit priest, and some of his scattered sad childhood memories make of him a philosophical, sentimental character who serves as the main liaison between the reader and the events of the novel.  What we see through Father Karras' eyes is a complex, troubling vision of life and death, a conduit of our own philosophical and religious struggles.<br />The plot of the The Exorcist is well-known to just about everyone.  Chris MacNeil and her daughter are living in Georgetown while Chris is filming a new movie.  The energetic and happy child, Regan, suddenly begins to change.  Strange things begin to happen in the house - rustling noises are heard at night, objects seem to disappear and reappear in strange places, and Regan begins to complain about her bed shaking at night.  When Regan's state of mind begins to deteriorate, Chris seeks medical help for her daughter, but the doctors, after a series of complete, agonizing tests, can find no evidence to support their theories of a condition brought about by a lesion in the temporal lobe of the brain.  Regan continues to worsen, making wild animal noises, struggling with her caretakers with superhuman strength, cursing like a drunk pirate, speaking with several different voices, projectile vomiting a nasty green substance, claiming to be the devil himself, and - in what is probably the most shocking image of all - hideously violating herself with a religious icon.  She eventually has to be strapped into bed for the protection of her as well as those around her.  Desperately, the nonreligious Chris turns to the Jesuit priesthood for help, asking for an exorcism to be performed on her daughter.  Father Karras studies the case, attempting to find a medical explanation for Regan's behavior even after he witnesses some extraordinary things in Regan's room and converses with the demon claiming to reside within her.  In the end, Father Merrin, whom we met in a highly symbolic scene at the beginning of the book, comes to perform an exorcism, engaging once again in battle a demon he had defeated years earlier.  The book concludes in a particularly strong, dramatic, and satisfying way.<br />The descriptions of Regan's behavior and increasingly disturbing actions are laid out in quite open and impacting ways here, but I think this aspect of the story is expressed much more effectively in the movie.  It's one thing to read about projectile vomiting, a head spinning completely around, and the other physical manifestations of Regan's condition, but it's something else to actually watch it presented visually onscreen.  The book's main strength, in my opinion, comes in the form of the character of Father Karras.  The novel provides much deeper access into the mind and soul of this tragically troubled character, and herein is to be found the true heart of the book.  The exorcism itself does not take center stage the way it does in the film.  Despite all of its religious and demonic attributes, I believe Peter William Blatty's novel is a deep look inside the heart of man as he attempts to make sense and keep the faith in the face of the sometimes revolting human condition.<br />Those who have seen the movie will benefit greatly from a reading of Blatty's novel.  There are a number of sub-plots covered only in these pages, and much of the symbolic and quite subtle aspects of the harrowing drama are not captured in the film at all (or are awkwardly included in the form of symbology that the casual viewer may not notice or recognize).  It is interesting for me to ponder why so many find The Exorcist a truly frightening reading experience while I really do not.  Perhaps those who are not religious have never really examined pure evil as straightforwardly as they are forced to in the form of this possessed child.  In any event, I believe the horror many feel at this undeniably gripping and disturbing story comes not from a vision of the events so vividly described herein, but rather from a consciousness of the changes and perhaps fears wrought upon their own heart and soul by the implications of the experience.e not captured in the film at all (or are awkwardly included in the form of symbology that the casual viewer may not notice or recognize).  It is interesting for me to ponder why so many find The Exorcist a truly frightening reading experience while I really do not.  Perhaps those who are not religious have never really examined pure evil as straightforwardly as they are forced to in the form of this possessed child.  In any event, I believe the horror many feel at this undeniably gripping and disturbing story comes not from a vision of the events so vividly described herein, but rather from a consciousness of the changes and perhaps fears wrought upon their own heart and soul by the implications of the experience.	2003-08-09
1018249:US	53016962	R3JNVF0YID0IJ4	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Immensely important yet problematic	The Queen of the Damned is strikingly different in both form and substance from the first two books of The Vampire Chronicles.  Several new characters are introduced, a number of truly old vampires we have only heard of up until now become part of the action, and the story is woven together into a mosaic much more wide in scope from what has come before.  This is essentially Lestat's book, but he is not really the focus of the tale; while he narrates his own role in events, much of the book is written in the third person.  This, plus the addition of so many new characters and the truly elaborate scope that is covered, makes this novel much less cohesive than the first-person narratives of the first two books.  The action is spread out over six thousand years from one end of the world to the other, with a lot of mythology and pondering taking the place of the thrilling, energetic action of the earlier novels.<br />The book begins a week or two before Lestat's legendary rock concert and the ensuing mayhem that erupted outside the auditorium on that night.  We follow the paths of other vampires in the days prior to this, including Armand and Daniel, the young man from Interview With the Vampire.  We also learn that the immolation of vampires that Lestat, Louis, and Gabrielle saw that night had actually begun several days earlier, as a number of covens were destroyed by Akasha, the newly awakened Queen of the Damned.  After the story of her awakening is told, the book takes on a somewhat mystical air.  Almost all vampires are dreaming of two red-headed young women preparing to feast upon their dead mother, only to be taken prisoner by soldiers while their village is destroyed around them.  The true significance of the red-headed twins does not become clear until the final hundred pages of the book, for their tale is an integral part of the story behind vampirism's very existence.  We already knew that Enkil and Akasha, ancient rulers of Egypt, were the first vampires.  Now, the whole history of the King and Queen is revealed, including the curse that accompanied their transformation.  Rice goes out of her way to explain the beginning of vampirism in a unique way, although the facts of the matter seem a little too elaborate and far-fetched to me.<br />The one real weakness I find in the novel is Akasha's agenda.  She is not exactly the altruistic type, and her mission to save mankind sounds ingenuous at best.  It is also a rather laughable plan; having spent the past six thousand years in contemplative thought, I would have expected a character of her strength and moxie to have come up with a plan much better than this one.  The final conflict, one prefigured for hundreds of pages in the slow unveiling of the Legend of the Twins, ends so quickly I was forced to stop and make sure I hadn't somehow skipped a paragraph or two.  Basically, it's all over in one sentence.  Even Lestat is not himself here; I actually enjoyed the stories of the other vampires and the history of the accidental birth of vampirism in Akasha more than I enjoyed the action related first-hand by Lestat.  Certainly, Rice is to be commended for vastly expanding her vampire universe and having her characters deeply examine their lives and their purposes on earth, but I just could not fully connect with this novel.  Still, it is an essential book for Anne Rice fans, as it offers up loads of information about the vampires who roam the world of her creation and explains the very origins of vampirism itself.Now, the whole history of the King and Queen is revealed, including the curse that accompanied their transformation.  Rice goes out of her way to explain the beginning of vampirism in a unique way, although the facts of the matter seem a little too elaborate and far-fetched to me.  <br />The one real weakness I find in the novel is Akasha's agenda.  She is not exactly the altruistic type, and her mission to save mankind sounds ingenuous at best.  It is also a rather laughable plan; having spent the past six thousand years in contemplative thought, I would have expected a character of her strength and moxie to have come up with a plan much better than this one.  The final conflict, one prefigured for hundreds of pages in the slow unveiling of the Legend of the Twins, ends so quickly I was forced to stop and make sure I hadn't somehow skipped a paragraph or two.  Basically, it's all over in one sentence.  Even Lestat is not himself here; I actually enjoyed the stories of the other vampires and the history of the accidental birth of vampirism in Akasha more than I enjoyed the action related first-hand by Lestat.  Certainly, Rice is to be commended for vastly expanding her vampire universe and having her characters deeply examine their lives and their purposes on earth, but I just could not fully connect with this novel.  Still, it is an essential book for Anne Rice fans, as it offers up loads of information about the vampires who roam the world of her creation and explains the very origins of vampirism itself.	2003-08-08
1025843:US	53016962	R119VM2YSKS85B	0898152151	644240706	Will the Gentleman Yield?: The Congressional Record Humor Book	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Everybody's a comedian, especially our Congressmen	This book was a real treat to read.  Not only does it contain some pretty humorous exchanges between Congressmen, it puts the work of our nation's lawmakers in a sometimes strange new light.  While the action on the Hill never seems to rival the clips I see of the fun to be had daily in the British Parliament, the Congressional humor collected in Will the Gentleman Yield? packs quite the comic punch at times.  I was frankly quite surprised at some of the things discussed at different times on the floor of the House and Senate, but I suppose even the lawmakers of this great country can only stand to benefit from occasional lighter moments at work.  This book by no means consists of Republicans ridiculing Democrats and vice versa, as many a priceless exchange occurs between members of the same party.  What makes some episodes so funny is the professional manner in which senators and representatives address each other even in the midst of exchanging snide remarks.  Everything in this book comes directly from the pages of the Congressional Record, and one can only imagine the voluminous research that went into collecting these select priceless moments.  With only a few exceptions, all of the material collected here dates from the twentieth century; a majority of it comes coming from the 1970s and early 1980s (as the book was published in 1987), but there are a number of references to speeches and events from earlier decades.<br /><br />The book is divided into almost two dozen categories.  I will just cite a few examples of what is a surprisingly diverse range of subjects.  One-upmanship is often the order of the day, and lawmakers do not hesitate to deliver political poems and songs of their own creation, tell elaborate jokes (sometimes at other members' expense), respond to newspaper articles about their manner of dress and appearance, joke about the age as well as the naivete of their peers, talk about sports, etc.  Playful accusations fly about the respective strength of the Congressional Republican and Democratic softball and basketball teams, humorously heated wars break out between the representatives of neighboring states over which state makes the best chili, and vivid descriptions of the differences between the parties is sometimes offered into the record.  There are just too many topics addressed in these pages for me to even begin to do them all justice, but I would be remiss not to mention the many contributions of Louisiana's Senator Huey Long to these pages.  Not only are his frequent spiels of homespun humor entertaining in the extreme, the interchange between himself and his peers is priceless; this is particularly the case on a June day in 1935 when Senator Long went into great depth to record for posterity the recipes and instructions for preparing Louisiana-style fried oyster, \\"pot likker,\\" and Roquefort cheese salad dressing.<br /><br />The one word you will find most often in this book is enclosed in brackets; that word is [laughter], and it is obvious that Congress is a place where laughter is welcomed.  While some of the subjects discussed on the Hill over the course of our country's history have obviously been frivolous time-wasters, I cannot begrudge our highest leaders' occasional weakness for and appreciation of a little comedy in the midst of their important work.  A little medicinal laughter every now and again in the halls of Congress is most likely a good thing for both our lawmakers and the country as a whole.e Congressional Republican and Democratic softball and basketball teams, humorously heated wars break out between the representatives of neighboring states over which state makes the best chili, and vivid descriptions of the differences between the parties is sometimes offered into the record.  There are just too many topics addressed in these pages for me to even begin to do them all justice, but I would be remiss not to mention the many contributions of Louisiana's Senator Huey Long to these pages.  Not only are his frequent spiels of homespun humor entertaining in the extreme, the interchange between himself and his peers is priceless; this is particularly the case on a June day in 1935 when Senator Long went into great depth to record for posterity the recipes and instructions for preparing Louisiana-style fried oyster, \\"pot likker,\\" and Roquefort cheese salad dressing.     The one word you will find most often in this book is enclosed in brackets; that word is [laughter], and it is obvious that Congress is a place where laughter is welcomed.  While some of the subjects discussed on the Hill over the course of our country's history have obviously been frivolous time-wasters, I cannot begrudge our highest leaders' occasional weakness for and appreciation of a little comedy in the midst of their important work.  A little medicinal laughter every now and again in the halls of Congress is most likely a good thing for both our lawmakers and the country as a whole.	2003-08-02
1027616:US	53016962	R80NQX7QRCQIW	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A moving, sweeping, dark masterpiece of literature	The Vampire Lestat is not only one of the most engaging, remarkable, illuminating, and important horror novels ever written, it is a beautiful work of art that stands proudly among the ranks of what I define as great literature.  The breadth and scope of this novel is almost staggering, as is the hypnotic language in which every word and phrase is uttered.  Interview With the Vampire was provocative and soul-stirring, but its greatest achievement pale in comparison to the least of the many wonders worked into this second volume of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles.<br />It was the story of Claudia the vampire child that touched my heart in the first novel, although the moral and philosophical questions asked by Louis opened the door for a new kind of vampire literature.  Still, Lestat hovered and brooded over every page of Interview With the Vampire, leaving nothing but unanswered questions in the wake of his coldness and sometimes pathetic manifestations.  One could not help but wonder about his origins and history, the heavy weights of his mysterious life having left him little more than a husk of a vampire at the end of Louis' story.  Finding out in the opening pages of The Vampire Lestat that this inscrutable wanderer is not only thriving once again but that he has in fact become a rock star seems pretty strange.  Yet all things are made clear in this novel, for this is Lestat's story, and he violates every vampire law by revealing secrets beyond the ken of mortal man.  Lestat wants to embrace his true nature, show the world's population that vampires live amongst them, and incite a glorious war between man and the Children of the Night.<br />This is much more than just Lestat's story, however.  What Anne Rice has managed to do in this novel is to create a brand new history and legend of the vampire, taking this most beloved of horror themes and transcending the literature of Stoker, Le Fanu, and the greats of the past.  The cold and inscrutable Lestat we saw in Interview With the Vampire is now revealed to be at one time the most human of vampires, an immortal whose love for humans exceeded even that of his creation Louis.  We learn of his human childhood, his creation by the immensely old and powerful Magnus in the seventeenth century.  The depth of his feelings for his mother and adolescent soul companion Nicholas are quite touching and beautiful, and we see how his first recipients of the Dark Trick come to bring him much pain and tragedy.  We see his crazed outbursts and intensity of feeling revealed in the most telling of ways.  We learn much more about the vampire Armand, a character I quite honestly despise for his weakness.  He hides behind old traditions, betraying the very notions of his own creator Marius by embracing a pseudo-religion of evil, punishing those wretched creatures who dare disturb his antiquated way of existence.  Marius, an ancient vampire of great power who links Armand and Lestat together in the most telling of ways, introduces Lestat and ourselves to the Mother and the Father, Those Who Must Be Kept, and it is through these individuals that the history of vampirism is delivered so originally and brilliantly here, drawing and touching upon ancient Egypt, religion, philosophy, and a myriad of other powerful subjects and inspirations.  Through Lestat's daring and individualism, we learn much more than any other vampire teacher could tell us; he truly did have stories to tell, and now we learn why he refused to share his wisdom with Louis and Claudia.<br />The introduction of the Mother and the Father, Akasha and Enkil, leads us directly into the next book in the series, The Queen of the Damned, and The Vampire Lestat actually ends on a note of new beginnings potentially more powerful than anything introduced and revealed in this book's 550 pages.  I find Those Who Must Be Kept absolutely fascinating, the most ancient of vampires who live lives of immobility and seeming inactivity, staring open-eyedeternally, leaving open the possibility to Lestat in particular that they can be reawakened.  Yet Lestat's active plans, his flagrant announcement to the world that he is a vampire (even though mortals may believe in the image rather than the reality of what he is saying) and his daring publication of the most secret of his kind's secrets leaves one spellbound and in wonder as to how things will play out in the end.  His actions are rash and dangerous, yet the exuberance he feels in doing these things brings him to life ever more fully.  I could go on and on about the wonder and power of this novel, but even then I could not begin to convey the beauty and force with which Anne Rice weaves her dark wonders.  Anne Rice takes us inside the hearts and minds of these vampire characters, and that is a perspective that even Bram Stoker never provided.  I thought nothing could possibly surpass the dark brilliance of Dracula, but I have to say that The Vampire Lestat is the greatest vampire novel I have ever read.n-eyed eternally, leaving open the possibility to Lestat in particular that they can be reawakened.  Yet Lestat's active plans, his flagrant announcement to the world that he is a vampire (even though mortals may believe in the image rather than the reality of what he is saying) and his daring publication of the most secret of his kind's secrets leaves one spellbound and in wonder as to how things will play out in the end.  His actions are rash and dangerous, yet the exuberance he feels in doing these things brings him to life ever more fully.  I could go on and on about the wonder and power of this novel, but even then I could not begin to convey the beauty and force with which Anne Rice weaves her dark wonders.  Anne Rice takes us inside the hearts and minds of these vampire characters, and that is a perspective that even Bram Stoker never provided.  I thought nothing could possibly surpass the dark brilliance of Dracula, but I have to say that The Vampire Lestat is the greatest vampire novel I have ever read.	2003-08-01
1033354:US	53016962	R2MVNGQ57DS3KT	0446611239	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fascinating read spoiled by too many coincidences	The Cabinet of Curiosities is a fascinating, engrossing read, yet several flaws weaken its impact, especially in the final hundred pages.  The style and skill of Preston and Child seems to mesh together quite well, and this book reads as if one individual alone had written it.  The novel itself is at heart a horror novel, but a lot of research also went into making it a medical thriller with what sounds like a firm scientific background; unfortunately, later events move out of the realm of science in a way that cheapens some of the impressive groundwork that has been laid out early on.<br />In the nineteenth century, many amateur scientists scoured the world for rare and spectacular examples of animals, plants, and the like, lovingly adding each new treasure into their own private showcase; such collections came to be dubbed cabinets of curiosities.  In time, some began charging the public to tour their special collections, at which time a lot of con men also entered into the game, creating numerable atrocious fakes by such means as sewing the parts of two different dead animals together, passing off mummified monkeys as mysterious pygmies, etc.  Eventually, museums put the cabinets of curiosities out of business, often buying up their genuine articles.  In one cabinet in the late 1800s, an individual began experimenting on human beings, murdering innocent men, women, and children in pursuit of a dream of increasing his own lifespan.  A charnel house containing thirty-six of his victims has just been dug up by a construction crew, and archaeologist Nora Kelly has been called to the scene by a mysterious FBI agent named Pendergast.  So begins an unofficial investigation into the case of an unknown mass serial killer predating Jack the Ripper.  The New York Museum of Natural History, Dr. Kelly's employer, soon occupies a central position in the hunt for not only a killer from the past but a new, copycat killer who is terrorizing New York.<br />Nora's boyfriend, an annoyingly quintessential reporter for the New York Times, insinuates himself into the case, alienating Nora by his absence of integrity, and a downtrodden beat cop finds himself taking pride in his own work for the first time in years as he assists Special Agent Pendergast.  The FBI man is a unique fellow, an extremely pale specter of a man who seems to be two steps in front of everyone besides the killer, and Nora finds herself drawn further and further into the mystery of all these old and new deaths despite its harmful effect on her position in the museum.  Pendergast seems at first to be a successor to Sherlock Holmes, a master sleuth unmatched by any intellect, yet time reveals several of his investigative methods to be rather unusual and slightly unbelievable.  Still, the story moves along at a fast pace as all of the main characters close in on the secrets of the mystery.  Plenty of danger, action, and even death ensue, yet in the most climactic moments, the plot breaks down.  Actions become far too convenient to be believable, and a substratum of the story is constructed out of thin air.  There is a surprise or two toward the end, but the story loses the grounding in reality it had enjoyed for the first five hundred pages.  There is a sideshow of comedy to placate the reader to some degree, as a certain police sergeant struts around envisioning himself to be a master sleuth who has single handedly caught the serial killer dubbed The Surgeon.<br />I cannot say I did not enjoy this book; it was a fascinating read for the most part.  There are just too many shortcuts and unexplained secrets at the end, turning a criminal/medical thriller into an unsatisfying caricature of itself.  This reader can only accept so many coincidences, I am afraid.  Horror fans will find a definite creep factor in several of the scenes, although I would not go so far as to call the book scary by any means.  If the ending had just been fleshed out a little more, I would have sung this book's praises as a horror novel screaming to be read.book's praises as a horror novel screaming to be read.	2003-07-27
1035552:US	53016962	R3Y27TWUR07KX	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	161	168	N	N	The exquisite classic that rejuvenated the vampire genre	With Interview With the Vampire, Anne Rice completely rejuvenated the genre which I feel to be horror's most important, primal, and soul-stirring, the legend of the vampire.  I have described Richard Matheson's classic I Am Legend as the second greatest vampire novel, but I must retract that statement now.  Only with a second reading have I recognized the unparalleled power, beauty, eroticism, and grace of Anne Rice's contribution to the subject.  Unlike Matheson, Rice luxuriates in the Victorian appeal of Stoker's masterpiece, while taking the subject to planes far beyond those Stoker could have envisioned for his Count Dracula.  The modern writer does not have to hide the vampire's erotic appeal behind convention, nor does she need to classify her subject as an evil in and of itself.  The vampire nature of Rice's creation is a complex, unfathomable subject that transcends good and evil.<br />This first novel in The Vampire Chronicles centers around four very different yet almost equally fascinating vampires.  The story is that of Louis, a wealthy eighteenth century Louisiana plantation owner who became a vampire in the depths of his despair over his brother's suicide.  Lestat, the inscrutable force that hovers above every page of the tale, made Louis a vampire for basically economic reasons; he wanted the wealth that Louis possessed, but he also wanted a companion.  Narcissistic and vain, the dapper Lestat does not teach his creation what it means to be a vampire, does not share the secrets he claims to know, does not even help Louis through the soul-shattering change that comes about when the body dies so that it may live eternally.  Louis stays with Lestat only because, so far as he knows, there are no other vampires to whom he can turn for help and instruction.  His distaste for Lestat grows over the years, however, and in order to keep Louis by his side, Lestat takes a young girl whom Louis had fed upon during a period of emotional turbulence and makes of her a vampire, knowing that Louis could never abandon the child.  It is the story of Claudia, doomed to a most tragic life of immortality trapped inside the body of a little girl, that makes this book so powerful in my eyes.  Lestat is of course fascinating, Louis is the epitome of tragedy and a fountain of knowledge by way of his questioning, eternally sad nature, but Claudia's story is an unbearably exquisite one.  She accepts her vampire nature with some ease, being too young to really ever remember her human childhood, but the growth of Claudia the vampire woman inside the body of Claudia the child is a beautifully painful thing to watch.  When she manages to separate Louis and herself from Lestat to go searching for other vampires in Central Europe and eventually Paris, giving dramatic voice to both her love for and hatred of Louis, the door to the dungeons of utter tragedy are thrown asunder.  The introduction of the four hundred year old vampire Armand in the second half of the book gives us yet another unique vampire soul to ponder, but Armand at his most vivid pales in comparison to Claudia at her most unprepossessing.<br />In the end, we are left with Louis and his story, which is full of unanswerable questions.  Even the meaning and lesson he tries to express about his miserable existence utterly fail in their influence it has upon the boy chosen to hear his extraordinary story.  Literature really provides no better character study of the emotional meaning of vampirism than Louis, however.  He became a creature of the night only out of despair, and his development as a new creature on earth proceeded without any instruction whatsoever from the cold Lestat.  Thus, he questions everything about his new nature, desperately longing for a mentor.  He does not relish the taking of human life, and the thought of creating another creature like himself is anathema to him.  He sees vampirism as a curse, eternally wondering if he is indeed a child of Satan doomed to animmortal yet cursed life.  The source of his moral suffering is his inability to really give up his human nature, and this causes him a long, long life of torment and pain.  Never before had the moral, spiritual, and philosophical nature of the vampire been explored in such depth as that found in this exquisitely beautiful novel, and that is one of the primary reasons why it rivals Stoker in terms of its beauty and resonates with an emotionally hypnotic power that is unmatched in the long tradition of vampire literature.an immortal yet cursed life.  The source of his moral suffering is his inability to really give up his human nature, and this causes him a long, long life of torment and pain.  Never before had the moral, spiritual, and philosophical nature of the vampire been explored in such depth as that found in this exquisitely beautiful novel, and that is one of the primary reasons why it rivals Stoker in terms of its beauty and resonates with an emotionally hypnotic power that is unmatched in the long tradition of vampire literature.	2003-07-25
1043305:US	53016962	R6V3BLGZ3ZDGH	0451192192	260699170	The Store	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A disappointing waste of real potential	The Store represents my first encounter with Bentley Little, and while he is clearly a talented writer who never allows the story to sag or slow down at all, what I viewed at first as a terrific book began to fall apart as more and more unlikely events occurred, and then the ending really disappointed me.  The central theme of the book, the danger of corporate power run amuck doing much more than destroying Mom and Pop businesses, is a good one, but Little does not know when to stop, pushing the story far beyond credibility and then obviously finding himself at a loss as to how to conclude it.  Horror writers in particular must beware of cowardly endings, yet the ending of The Store is, in my opinion, a cowardly one.  The totally unnecessary epilogue is incredibly stereotypical of this type of fiction, but the real damage is done by Little's refusal to offer any real explanations and to confront one very important plot twist that stopped me dead in my tracks when it first appeared.<br />Juniper, Arizona is a nice, quiet, idyllic town out in the middle of nowhere, the perfect place for Bill and Ginny Davis to settle down and raise a family.  Then The Store comes to town.  At first, Bill is upset by the fact that The Store was allowed to build on the most beautiful nature spot in the town, but unsettling, unexplainable things begin to happen immediately upon construction.  Animals of all sorts drop dead on the premises every day for no apparent reason, giving rise to a sense of menace.  Then Bill discovers that the town council has made one exception after another to attract the big retail chain to build there.  The Store's increasing expansion into all sorts of products and industries, backed up time and time again by an obsequious mayor and town council, soon begins driving local businessmen out of business.  As unemployment rises, the town becomes increasingly dependent on The Store as its major job provider, and the fact that so many people work there helps the town leaders to forestall financial bankruptcy by privatizing even the most basic of community resources - fire, police, education, etc.  The Store graciously offers to begin funding all of these programs, eventually securing a firm grip on the entire community which is soon augmented by their newly acquired control of the local media outlets.  The efforts of Bill and his friends to stop The Store's usurpation of power comes to naught, and Bill's horror is only increased by the fact that both of his daughters work there.  People begin disappearing or dying, and the inhuman characteristics of The Store's CEO Newman King and the dangerously mysterious Night Managers sparks such a fear in Bill's heart that he resorts to drastic measures.  The novel really took a bad turn for me at this point, as I lost all respect for a character I had been championing up to this point.<br />The Store never takes on a frightening \\"it can't happen here\\" atmosphere, unfortunately, because the job requirements and special training provided by The Store for its new employees is completely unbelievable.  There is no way anyone would subject themselves to the things the god-like Newman King requires of his cultish employees, nor do I believe a town would give in to such wild and obviously illegal and unconstitutional moves as The Store makes rather easily.  This only neutralizes the novel's valid point that people can lose control of their own towns and ways of life if they take no interest in local government.  By the mid-way point of the novel, the story was becoming ridiculous to me, and even though it kept my interest at a high level until the highly disappointing ending, The Store proved incapable of winning me over.wn leaders to forestall financial bankruptcy by privatizing even the most basic of community resources - fire, police, education, etc.  The Store graciously offers to begin funding all of these programs, eventually securing a firm grip on the entire community which is soon augmented by their newly acquired control of the local media outlets.  The efforts of Bill and his friends to stop The Store's usurpation of power comes to naught, and Bill's horror is only increased by the fact that both of his daughters work there.  People begin disappearing or dying, and the inhuman characteristics of The Store's CEO Newman King and the dangerously mysterious Night Managers sparks such a fear in Bill's heart that he resorts to drastic measures.  The novel really took a bad turn for me at this point, as I lost all respect for a character I had been championing up to this point.<br />The Store never takes on a frightening \\"it can't happen here\\" atmosphere, unfortunately, because the job requirements and special training provided by The Store for its new employees is completely unbelievable.  There is no way anyone would subject themselves to the things the god-like Newman King requires of his cultish employees, nor do I believe a town would give in to such wild and obviously illegal and unconstitutional moves as The Store makes rather easily.  This only neutralizes the novel's valid point that people can lose control of their own towns and ways of life if they take no interest in local government.  By the mid-way point of the novel, the story was becoming ridiculous to me, and even though it kept my interest at a high level until the highly disappointing ending, The Store proved incapable of winning me over.	2003-07-19
1053562:US	53016962	R3PY7A5XIW5C88	0765345080	36218293	Hunted Past Reason	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A distant echo in the forest of Matheson's genius	Hunted Past Reason is not on a level with Matheson's earlier work, nor is it very original, but it is a fast, generally enjoyable read.  The plot is basically a mutated version of The Most Dangerous Game, only the big hunt here is a product of much more than mere sadistic sport.  Middle-aged writer Bob Hansen is planning a novel with a backpacking theme, and his outdoorsman friend Doug Crowley offers to take him on a real backpacking trip so that he can get a true taste for his subject.  It seems like a great idea - at first, despite Bob's wife's natural concern about her husband going out into the wilderness for several days.  Doug knows what he is doing, however, a point he continually makes clear from the very start of the trek.  He rides Bob pretty hard about his equipment and preparation even before the two men leave the highway for the forest, quickly grating on the nerves of both Bob and the reader with his overcritical behavior.  As the hike begins, his comments take on a more personal aspect, and his behavior becomes more and more moody and difficult to explain.  Bob represents everything Doug is not, a successful man with a wife and family, while the formerly successful Doug blames everyone but himself for his trouble finding any decent acting jobs lately, his son's suicide, his wife's abandonment of him, etc.  The simmering sea of emotional rage eventually reaches a boiling point, turning Bob's educational little hike into a blood sport of frightening dimensions wherein not only Bob's life but that of his wife hang in the balance.<br />One of the problems with this book is redundancy.  Bob's inner dialogue seems forced at times, and his time alone struggling to survive from the dangers of nature as well as the dangers of an insane madman on his tail involve the same thoughts and self-dialogues repeated ad nauseum.  Perhaps the most peculiar aspect of the novel is Bob's unusual communication with deadly animals, especially his last encounter with a mountain lion.  Then there is his whole philosophy about life and death, a subject which drives Doug the short distance required to push him over the deep end; it doesn't seem very well thought-out, and Bob's refusal to pray for his survival strikes me as strange; what could it hurt?  The transformation of Doug from helpful if overcritical friend to certified monster is rather well done, but Bob's early reactions to his mood swings come across as silly.  Even after Doug's hateful, misogynist, prejudiced world view comes through loud and clear, one innocuous comment can have Bob thinking that the next few days could actually be interesting and worthwhile rather than torturous if not horror-laden.<br />Basically, this is an average horror novel, which would not be such a bad thing if the author were not Richard Matheson.  Hunted Past Reason falls far short of what I have come to expect from this author, and for that reason this novel will be judged more harshly than perhaps it deserves.  Still, it is an interesting and, for the most part, enjoyable read, yet this trek through a seemingly virginal forest ends up feeling like a journey on well-traveled and thus far from pristine ground.in lion.  Then there is his whole philosophy about life and death, a subject which drives Doug the short distance required to push him over the deep end; it doesn't seem very well thought-out, and Bob's refusal to pray for his survival strikes me as strange; what could it hurt?  The transformation of Doug from helpful if overcritical friend to certified monster is rather well done, but Bob's early reactions to his mood swings come across as silly.  Even after Doug's hateful, misogynist, prejudiced world view comes through loud and clear, one innocuous comment can have Bob thinking that the next few days could actually be interesting and worthwhile rather than torturous if not horror-laden.<br />Basically, this is an average horror novel, which would not be such a bad thing if the author were not Richard Matheson.  Hunted Past Reason falls far short of what I have come to expect from this author, and for that reason this novel will be judged more harshly than perhaps it deserves.  Still, it is an interesting and, for the most part, enjoyable read, yet this trek through a seemingly virginal forest ends up feeling like a journey on well-traveled and thus far from pristine ground.	2003-07-11
1053919:US	53016962	RR78IUTA6XFIT	0440237068	327190256	Area 51:  The Truth	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It all comes down to this	Bob Mayer (writing under the pen name of Robert Doherty) has taken many a reader on a wild, amazingly adrenaline-pumping ride over the course of his Area 51 novels, and everything is finally brought together and explained in this seventh and final book of the series.  I have no idea why I waited so long to read this book, having been enthralled by the earlier books as I read them one after the other a while back, and it did take a little time to regain my bearings.  The author always manages to provide a lot of pertinent background information early on in each novel, and thank goodness for that.  To say these books are action-packed and full of twists and turns barely begins to convey the sense of non-stop events, discoveries, missions, deaths, and surprises that pack these books almost as densely as a neutron star.  By this point, there are a fairly significant number of players in the game of earth's future: the Airlia alien race who has been on earth for millennia, the Airlia traitors who broke off and formed their own faction (and it remains murky at all times as to which side is which), the leaders of the Airlia factions and their \\"shadows,\\" Watchers and Ones Who Wait who have spent untold centuries doing just what their names imply, a mysterious and absolutely world-threatening race called the Swarm, and now yet another alien race steps to the plate.  The course of the saga stretches from one end of human history to the other.<br />The Third World War has ended, leaving massive casualties across the entire globe, but the alien threat, while diminished, remains.  Mike Turcotte, the special forces soldier turned budding intergalactic hero, must first find a way off the top of Mount Everest, where he has secured the legendary sword Excalibur, and fight yet another day against not only the aliens still present on earth but their dangerous minions rebuilding a huge array on the surface of Mars.  Among other things, he must also rescue and overcome his confusion with his increasingly mysterious former boss and lover Lisa Duncan, save entire populations from the little plots of savage revenge unleashed by retreating Airlia forces, and come to terms with a deep mystery about himself, one which threatens to prove his very own memories a dark lie.<br />The nonstop action in these pages is relentless and absorbing, but this final book just seems a bit rushed to me at certain points.  With all Turcotte and his colleagues have been through over the course of a couple of thousand pages of story already, a few major tasks just seem a little too easy this time around.  The proclaimed Truth is not all that shocking, either, although it did add a dimension I had not put much thought into.  Still, this is definitely a book all Area 51 fans must read; if you've gone this far in the series, you are not going to stop now, and Doherty's always frenetic, action-packed storyline will have you wishing that the series would in fact never end.  Fear not, though.  This remarkable series of books may come to a conclusion here, but the Area 51 saga, in a different guise, is in the works, with the recently published Area 51: Nosferatu leading the way.th his increasingly mysterious former boss and lover Lisa Duncan, save entire populations from the little plots of savage revenge unleashed by retreating Airlia forces, and come to terms with a deep mystery about himself, one which threatens to prove his very own memories a dark lie.  <br />The nonstop action in these pages is relentless and absorbing, but this final book just seems a bit rushed to me at certain points.  With all Turcotte and his colleagues have been through over the course of a couple of thousand pages of story already, a few major tasks just seem a little too easy this time around.  The proclaimed Truth is not all that shocking, either, although it did add a dimension I had not put much thought into.  Still, this is definitely a book all Area 51 fans must read; if you've gone this far in the series, you are not going to stop now, and Doherty's always frenetic, action-packed storyline will have you wishing that the series would in fact never end.  Fear not, though.  This remarkable series of books may come to a conclusion here, but the Area 51 saga, in a different guise, is in the works, with the recently published Area 51: Nosferatu leading the way.	2003-07-10
1057950:US	53016962	RYVM37ZLY4JV8	0767908473	495549695	The Sorcerer's Companion: A Guide to the Magical World of Harry Potter	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	An interesting reference book for Potter fans	While this book does offer a lot of good source material on subjects touched upon in J.K. Rowling's Harry Potters novels (one through four, at the time this book was written), it is by no means an indispensable addition to the Pottermaniac's personal library.  The references to events and personages in the Harry Potter books are rather haphazard, and in many cases it is apparent that the Potter link is primarily a gimmick designed to sell more books.  This is not necessarily a bad thing, though, because there is information in this book I had not encountered elsewhere, and it does reinforce one's impressive appraisal of the fiber of actual legendry that went into the creation of Rowling's novels.<br /><br />This book offers a concise encyclopedia of magical subjects, creatures, and legends.  Much of the material will be familiar to anyone well-read, yet there are aspects to some of even the most familiar of legends, such as that of the werewolf or vampire, that I was unaware of; this consisted for the most part of the different ideas held by different cultures.  What was evil to a European of the Middle Ages was sometimes a portent of good to an inhabitant of China or India, for example.  Perhaps the most interesting items discussed in these pages are the more obscure legends of unfamiliar beings which I had never heard of before and which I had assumed J.K. Rowling had invented: e.g., grundylows, kappas, and redcaps.<br /><br />The authors, a professional magician and his academic daughter, have written a book that can easily be read by laymen in the ways of magic.  The concise, far from elaborate discussions of each topic can be easily understood by young readers obsessed with Harry Potter, making it a welcome, interesting, entertainingly informative read that does not so much add to the legendry created by J.K. Rowling as it does highlight the sturdiness of the foundation upon which her magical adventure stories are built.	2003-07-07
1060403:US	53016962	RJADPKY4XP0Q1	0441010555	366597247	The Light Ages	Books	4	25	27	N	N	The Light Ages makes for some heavy reading	Ian R. MacLeod is most definitely a talented writer capable of making his words dance across the written page, but I have to admit I found The Light Ages a slow, sometimes frustrating read.  The actual events and experiences driving the story are disjointed, and while the highly literate prose ebbs and flows at times like a beauty of nature, it proves incapable of assembling the whole into something completely intelligible.  This is fantasy of a high order that many readers will surely enjoy more than I did, and any question of MacLeod's talent can be easily swept aside by noting the World Fantasy Award he won for his novella The Summer Isles.  As this is MacLeod's first novel, though, I personally cannot help but wonder if he tried too hard to reach a lofty pinnacle of success.  The words, as beautiful and carefully crafted as they are, just seem to get in the way of the story at times.  There are several quite compelling scenes, but these inevitably fall away into a sort of miasma not unlike the alternative London MacLeod constructed for his novel.<br />The primary backdrop of The Light Ages is a future London wherein a Dickensian sort of social order has prevailed for a full three centuries, fueled by the discovery of aether, a magical substance that is mined from the earth.  Industrialization failed to progress, to a large degree, because aether and the spells guarded zealously by the guilds could magically make inferior items, including those making up the industrial infrastructure of society, perfectly workable.  On their own, such structures as the low-quality train tracks and flimsily-constructed buildings could never stand, but aether kept everything in working order.  Thus, industry stagnated, and society, through the course of three century-long Ages, also stagnated into a tightly compartmentalized world of guilds.  Social mobility was all but unheard of; the son of a toolmaker would grow up to be a toolmaker because there was no other option.  A few individuals, though, seemed to possess magic inside themselves, and these creatures were rooted out and ostracized as trolls (i.e., changelings).  Robert Barrows was born into this world, growing up in the town of Bracebridge, the most important aether mining town in England.  One special day during his childhood, his mother took him to a home outside of town, where he met an extraordinary young girl named Annalise, and soon thereafter his mother began to change horribly.  With her death, he chose to flee his world and seek his destiny in London.  It is here that he becomes a social revolutionary, working to usher in the light of a brand new Age, one in which society is not stratified by wealth, status, or birth.  Oddly enough, he also sometimes walks in the world of the guildmasters, the very persons he is trying to overthrow, and it is here where he meets Annalise again.  The rest of the novel is a meandering tale of discovery and loss, mixing in a remarkable cast of characters, as Robert strives to discover the secret of his home town of Bracebridge, a secret that unites him and Annalise in the most fundamental, albeit mysterious, of manners.<br />One problem I have with the book is the fact that some of the most important events and transitions take place between sections.  We see Robert hop a train to escape to London, and the next thing we know he is working for a socialist newspaper five years later.  Since MacLeod's main emphasis in this novel, at least as it appeared to me, was a careful and close critique of man and society, Robert's transformation would seem to have offered the author a perfect means of pursuing his loftier goals for the story.  There were moments when MacLeod succeeded in demonstrating the common humanity of the wealthy guildmen and unguilded marts such as Robert, yet no individual's real self seemed to emerge from these pages; thus, the motivations of different characters at different times were difficult to understand, and the whole pointof the novel is, in one sense, seemingly challenged by the ending.  The Light Ages is not a cheerful, inspirational story, but I don't think it tries to be; personally, I'm not entirely sure what the novel was intended to be, and that is the source of my own dissatisfaction of sorts with what could have potentially been a truly insightful, socioeconomically challenging novel.t of the novel is, in one sense, seemingly challenged by the ending.  The Light Ages is not a cheerful, inspirational story, but I don't think it tries to be; personally, I'm not entirely sure what the novel was intended to be, and that is the source of my own dissatisfaction of sorts with what could have potentially been a truly insightful, socioeconomically challenging novel.	2003-07-05
1060888:US	53016962	R2V0FQ900OWDW3	043932162X	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them / Quidditch Through the Ages	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	If you cannot go to Hogwarts, let Hogwarts come to you	Although not a necessary addition to everyone's personal Harry Potter library, these two little books are quite interesting and a lot of fun to read.  They are both quite short, totaling less than sixty five pages apiece, but they are wonderfully put together and made to look like copies of real books from the Hogwarts library.  None other than Albus Dumbledore himself writes the introduction to each book, explaining how and why these books are being made available to Muggles for the first time and explaining how proceeds from each book go directly to a fund, set up in Harry Potter's name by Comic Relief UK and author J.K. Rowling, which is dedicated to help children in need throughout the world.<br />Quidditch Through the Ages, penned by Quidditch expert Kennilworthy Whisp explains the ultimate sport of wizards from top to bottom, giving the centuries-old history of the game as it has evolved.  First and foremost, he explains why wizards and witches employ brooms to fly on in the first place, and then he proceeds to give an account of the changing rules of the game from its early days of primitive baskets set atop poles to the standardized and world-sweeping format of today.  Of most significance and interest is the story of how the Golden Snitch was introduced into the sport.  Different strategies and maneuvers are named and explained, the thirteen Quidditch teams of England and Ireland are identified, some of the seven hundred types of fouls are explained, and some of the most memorable games and individual performances are detailed (including the Tutshill Tornados' Roderick Plumpton's amazing snag of the Golden Snitch only three and a half seconds into a game back in 1921).<br />Fantastic Beasts & Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander is a compendium of all the fantastic beasts currently known, from the Acromantula to the Yeti.  Prior to the actual listings, Scamander explains the criteria by which some beings have come to be labeled beasts (it's more complicated than you might think) and devotes some time to the obvious question as to why Muggles seem to spot such creatures only rarely.  Each listing also carries the classification assigned each beast by the Ministry of Magic, which is important information given that these beasts range from the harmless to the controllable to the incredibly dangerous.  Along with fascinating descriptions of the animals we have already encountered in the Harry Potter books, there are some real jewels of information included here, solving several Muggle mysteries such as that of the true identity of the Loch Ness Monster.  Fantastic Beasts is a copy of Harry Potter's own personal copy of the book, and its margins are dotted with little notes ranging from the mundane to the bitingly funny written by Harry, Ron, as well as Hermione.  Now, if we could only get our hands on A History of Hogwarts; I'm sure Hermione has a copy they can use for the printing of a Muggle edition.ed than you might think) and devotes some time to the obvious question as to why Muggles seem to spot such creatures only rarely.  Each listing also carries the classification assigned each beast by the Ministry of Magic, which is important information given that these beasts range from the harmless to the controllable to the incredibly dangerous.  Along with fascinating descriptions of the animals we have already encountered in the Harry Potter books, there are some real jewels of information included here, solving several Muggle mysteries such as that of the true identity of the Loch Ness Monster.  Fantastic Beasts is a copy of Harry Potter's own personal copy of the book, and its margins are dotted with little notes ranging from the mundane to the bitingly funny written by Harry, Ron, as well as Hermione.  Now, if we could only get our hands on A History of Hogwarts; I'm sure Hermione has a copy they can use for the printing of a Muggle edition.	2003-07-05
1067841:US	53016962	R2BM7ZSXAXGHW5	0439434866	667539744	Harry Potter Boxset 1-4	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The perfect buy for those yet to experience Pottermania	If you're like me, something of a late-comer to the addiction that is Harry Potter, this boxed set is pretty much a no-brainer.  You get the first four books in the series in a very impressive and artistically appealing format, each volume a more than worthy bearer of the magic, fascination, and all-around magical wonder that is Harry Potter, complemented extremely well by the seemingly simple and subdued yet quite telling and well-nigh perfect illustrations of Mary GrandPre.  All four of these books are enthralling, and I heartily recommend you do purchase them all at once; while the wait for Book Six will be a long one indeed, it's amazing how long a wait just a day or two can be if you find yourself finished with one of these volumes and unable to immediately pounce upon the next one in the series.  Thrill to the wonder of Hogwarts and its world of magic in The Sorcerer's Stone, delve gleefully into the mysteries contained within the Chamber of Secrets, watch in fascination as the story of The Prisoner of Azkaban is revealed, and then get ready to enjoy the lengthy yet all too short narrative of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, easily the best book in the series thus far and, quite honestly, one of the most compelling, exciting, thoroughly enjoyable novels I have ever read.  If you want to know what all of the incredible hype is about, you really owe it to yourself to visit the magical world of Harry Potter, and this boxed set is the perfect avenue by which to enter the realm.	2003-06-29
1076384:US	53016962	R2JGICS8MSWGV5	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An absolutely riveting, unparalleled success	It is quite hard to believe just how good Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is; the first three books, all of which impressed me deeply, seem almost forgettable compared to this intense fourth entry in the series.  This is as rich a reading experience as you will find, no matter what your age.  The storyline as it exists at the end of this mammoth epic has more of a hold on me now, as an adult, than the Star Wars saga had on me as a kid, which is saying a great deal, I assure you.  One barely knows where to start one's praises of this book; yes, it does have both dark overtones and undertones to it, yet it also boasts some of the funniest moments of the series.  We learn a great deal more about the major characters and turn our attention to new attractions such as the unique new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor, Mad-Eye Moody. Events in magical circles outside of Hogwarts increase the landscape of Rowling's magical world many times over as we are given insight into the workings of the Ministry of Magic, are treated to the best seat in the house at the Quidditch World Cup championship, and are introduced to two wholly new magical schools in foreign locations.  The pattern one might have come to expect of Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts is thrown immediately out of the window; there are no school Quidditch matches this year, nor is there even an inter-house cup competition.  Instead, Professor Dumbledore makes the extraordinary announcement that the Triwizard Tournament has not only been reinstituted after many years, it will take place at Hogwarts.  Only sixth- and seventh-year students are eligible to compete, seeming to leave Harry Potter quite out of the mix, which is fine by him.  A Goblet of Fire decides which of the volunteers from each school will compete as its Champion, but this quite impartial judge surprises everyone by selecting a certain familiar, fourth year student for the competition.  What follows is a roller coaster ride of a year, with Harry enduring more trials and troubles than ever before: his friendship with Ron threatens to end forever, he faces incredibly difficult tasks that may or may not serve as a means by which someone can kill him, a thoroughly sleazy tabloid reporter makes his and his friends' lives all but unbearable on a number of occasions, and he faces perhaps his biggest challenge of all: having to ask a girl to accompany him to the Yule Ball.  Oh, a certain arch enemy also rears his ugly head once again.<br />This is a large book, obviously; it gets off to something of a slow start, taking 171 pages just to get Harry to Hogwarts to start the new year.  Have no fear, though, because the novel then sucks you in so deeply that you may be unable to get out of it, should you even want to.  The length of the book quickly becomes a comfort to you, as you will not want this book to ever end.  End it shall, however, with an incredibly intense final 125 pages that will leave you gasping for breath, roiling in shock, and surging with adrenaline.  Anyone unable to understand why untold millions of addicted fans have been climbing the walls for three years waiting for Book 5 have simply not read this book.  Events of quite drastic proportions have been set in motion now, and the end of Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts holds little resolution to it.  There are dark days ahead and a significant number of plot points appear on the horizon.  Harry, Hermione, and Ron are growing up, with normal teenaged issues already beginning to manifest themselves, Hogwarts is in something of a tizzy over the culminating events of the completed school year, and the whole world of magic shows every sign of being in utter disarray.  The world of Harry Potter has never been more intense, exciting, and portentous as it is at the end of this unbelievably good book.ry enduring more trials and troubles than ever before: his friendship with Ron threatens to end forever, he faces incredibly difficult tasks that may or may not serve as a means by which someone can kill him, a thoroughly sleazy tabloid reporter makes his and his friends' lives all but unbearable on a number of occasions, and he faces perhaps his biggest challenge of all: having to ask a girl to accompany him to the Yule Ball.  Oh, a certain arch enemy also rears his ugly head once again.<br />This is a large book, obviously; it gets off to something of a slow start, taking 171 pages just to get Harry to Hogwarts to start the new year.  Have no fear, though, because the novel then sucks you in so deeply that you may be unable to get out of it, should you even want to.  The length of the book quickly becomes a comfort to you, as you will not want this book to ever end.  End it shall, however, with an incredibly intense final 125 pages that will leave you gasping for breath, roiling in shock, and surging with adrenaline.  Anyone unable to understand why untold millions of addicted fans have been climbing the walls for three years waiting for Book 5 have simply not read this book.  Events of quite drastic proportions have been set in motion now, and the end of Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts holds little resolution to it.  There are dark days ahead and a significant number of plot points appear on the horizon.  Harry, Hermione, and Ron are growing up, with normal teenaged issues already beginning to manifest themselves, Hogwarts is in something of a tizzy over the culminating events of the completed school year, and the whole world of magic shows every sign of being in utter disarray.  The world of Harry Potter has never been more intense, exciting, and portentous as it is at the end of this unbelievably good book.	2003-06-23
1079467:US	53016962	R16JQEXSQAQVG1	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Harry's transitional third year at Hogwarts	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban doesn't quite live up to the greatness of its predecessors, in my opinion, yet it is definitely another fabulous read.  Azkaban, of course, is the prison in which convicted wizards are held, and it is nice to get our first information about the type of place it really is.  This also serves to introduce what are perhaps the most sinister creatures encountered thus far in the continuing story of Harry's years at Hogwarts.  Rogue wizards are a pretty devious and tricky lot, but the Dementors of Azkaban are more than up to the task of keeping them subdued.  A Dementor, a cloaked, hooded, thoroughly spook-inducing creature, sucks the happiness out of everyone around it, and virtually all prisoners eventually go mad after enduring nothing but their most unhappiest memories at all times.  No prisoner has ever escaped the prison - until now.  Sirius Black, convicted of killing one wizard and a dozen Muggles twelve years earlier, has escaped, and every indication is that he is coming after Harry Potter to kill him.  This threat looms over Harry throughout his third year at Hogwarts, as even the Ministry of Magic is working to keep young Potter safe from the hands of such a dire criminal.  Naturally, there is much, much more to the story of Sirius Black than meets the eye, and a number of old secrets and missing pieces of Harry's history are brought to light.<br />There are a number of significant developments in this novel, beginning well before Harry gets to Hogwarts.  Harry's thirteenth birthday brings him his first ever birthday cards and presents, but it also brings him a week's visit from Uncle Vernon's sister, who is much worse than even her equally portly brother.  An unfortunate inflating incident with dear Aunt Marge leaves Harry out alone in the Muggle world of his own volition, but he does manage to catch the Hogwarts Express this year.  Before reaching its destination, the train is stopped and searched by a group of Dementors, and Harry's first encounter with these grim specters is not a good one.  At school, there are two new teachers, Professor Lupine filling the annually vacant job teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts, and a familiar name teaching the course on the care of magical beasts.  The Potter-Malfoy rivalry runs hotter than ever, Professor Snapes seems to hate Potter more and more each day, and two of the most eventful, physical games of Quidditch ever seen take place as team captain Wood desperately seeks to win the Quidditch Cup for Gryffindor in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts.  Disharmony also walks the halls of the school, threatening to dissolve the friendship Harry and Ron have long shared with Hermione.  Of course, all of the action comes down to an inevitable yet fairly surprising meeting of Harry Potter and Sirius Black.  The events that transpire threaten to unravel plot-wise in terms of their effectiveness, yet Rowling manages to pull everything together for a most important, thrilling conclusion (one that does fall short of the excitement of the first two books, however).  Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban strikes me as bearing a transitional place in the Potter series of books, enriching the landscape with more involved sub plots and new, potentially important characters, enclosing all of this important information inside a story that is sure to delight and entertain all fans of Harry Potter.ors, and Harry's first encounter with these grim specters is not a good one.  At school, there are two new teachers, Professor Lupine filling the annually vacant job teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts, and a familiar name teaching the course on the care of magical beasts.  The Potter-Malfoy rivalry runs hotter than ever, Professor Snapes seems to hate Potter more and more each day, and two of the most eventful, physical games of Quidditch ever seen take place as team captain Wood desperately seeks to win the Quidditch Cup for Gryffindor in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts.  Disharmony also walks the halls of the school, threatening to dissolve the friendship Harry and Ron have long shared with Hermione.  Of course, all of the action comes down to an inevitable yet fairly surprising meeting of Harry Potter and Sirius Black.  The events that transpire threaten to unravel plot-wise in terms of their effectiveness, yet Rowling manages to pull everything together for a most important, thrilling conclusion (one that does fall short of the excitement of the first two books, however).  Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban strikes me as bearing a transitional place in the Potter series of books, enriching the landscape with more involved sub plots and new, potentially important characters, enclosing all of this important information inside a story that is sure to delight and entertain all fans of Harry Potter.	2003-06-21
1080270:US	53016962	R16VI7BSHP9J5I	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Our choices, not our abilities, show what we truly are	There is no sophomore slump in the J.K. Rowling household or in Harry Potter's universe, as Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets somehow takes the magic and excitement of the first book to even higher levels of enjoyment. The characterization of the main characters is greatly enriched, while new, important characters come on the scene in grand style. After getting another bitter taste of Harry's life with the Dursleys, watching him become a prisoner in every sense of the word in the aftermath of the strange half-elf Dobby's noble yet highly frustrating attempts to protect him, we get a high treat indeed in being allowed a few days' stay in the home of the Weasleys. I must admit that I rather dote on young Ginny Weasley, whose obvious crush on Harry Potter works a magic (one which even we Muggles know and understand) all its own upon her. I can appreciate Gilderoy Lockhart's place in this novel, but the humor he sometimes provides with his egomaniacal self-love is as pathetic and frustrating to me as it is to Ron and Harry; I can't for the life of me see what Hermione's fascination with the man is, particularly after sitting through a few of his Defenses Against the Dark Arts classes. Then there is Lucius Malfoy, another sinister character for us to love to hate; compared to his father, young Draco Malfoy is a choir boy.<br />Some of the early action, particularly the whole flying car business, probably appeals to young readers more than it does to me, but things get very interesting very quickly as soon as the boys arrive at Hogwarts. There is sinister business at the school during Harry's second year, a crisis that leaves several students literally petrified, threatens the positions of even Hagrid and Dumbledore, and puts the very future of Hogwarts in great jeopardy. It all leads up to an ending that seems to stretch the limits of credulity in a couple of places yet succeeds much more impressively than the denouement of the first novel. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets takes everything I loved about the first book, multiplies it several times, expands the entire world in which Harry lives, throws in several juicy new sub-plots and immensely interesting new characters, and establishes Harry Potter as a bona fide phenomenon with the unlimited potential to thrill young and old readers alike for years and years to come.amber of Secrets takes everything I loved about the first book, multiplies it several times, expands the entire world in which Harry lives, throws in several juicy new sub-plots and immensely interesting new characters, and establishes Harry Potter as a bona fide phenomenon with the unlimited potential to thrill young and old readers alike for years and years to come.	2003-06-21
1080653:US	53016962	RQRM46QGMMRUV	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A phenomenal read that more than lives up to the hype	While Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone doesn't really need yet another glowing review, I'm not going to let that fact stop me from reviewing a book I happen to love.  I was a tad late catching Harry Potter fever, coming in about the time the first movie was released on DVD, but I'm now a quite devoted fan of J. K. Rowling and the magical stories she has given to us all, dazzling young and old alike in a manner quite unheard of before.  Actually, I don't think I would have recognized Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone as a children's book had I picked it up with no previous knowledge whatsoever about the phenomenon.  It's a rip-roaring good story filled with amazingly lifelike characters set in a truly captivating setting.  Harry Potter is, in a way, the ultimate underdog despite the fame he suddenly finds himself enjoying on the day of his eleventh birthday.  Ron Weasley is the perfect sidekick, self-conscious of his family's modest means and forever moving along underneath the large shadows of his more successful older brothers.  Then there is Hermione Granger, my favorite character in the Potter universe, a smart yet captivating know-it-all who eventually becomes the unlikely yet essential third member of Rowling's intrepid trio of heroic friends.  All of the characters are rich and alive: Professors Dumbledore and McGonagall, the unforgettable Hagrid, the fearsome Snapes, the incorrigible Draco Malfoy, etc.  This book is so compelling that I can't imagine ever forgetting even the most seemingly unimportant of characters.<br />If you enjoyed the movie but haven't actually read the original novel, you really owe it to yourself to pick up the book.  The movie is amazingly faithful to Rowling's novel, with only a few rather minor changes, yet the book offers so much more to the Harry Potter story.  For one thing, his life on Privet Drive with the Dursleys is actually much worse that it appears in the movie.  The story behind Snapes' immediate dislike of Harry is told in these pages, as is Harry's first and highly significant meeting with Malfoy early on in Diagon Alley.  It's really quite amazing to see how many little tidbits of future significance are scattered throughout this original story, giving one the impression that Rowling had a pretty clear vision of Potter's future in mind quite early on.  Perhaps most importantly, the ending works so much better in the novel; the movie ending just seemed to lack a little something, but the book not only fills in some gaps, it describes a much more trying set of warding charms and traps Harry, with the help of Ron and Hermione, must pass through in order to save the day.  Not only is this story enjoyable from start to finish, it is also both inspirational and educational.  Children can learn a great deal from Harry Potter and the way he fights for good against evil no matter what the risks, remains forever loyal to his friends, and never gives up under the most trying of circumstances.  Brave, noble, and true even at the worst of times, yet humble and shy in his moments of success and achievement, Harry Potter is truly a hero for the ages.is told in these pages, as is Harry's first and highly significant meeting with Malfoy early on in Diagon Alley.  It's really quite amazing to see how many little tidbits of future significance are scattered throughout this original story, giving one the impression that Rowling had a pretty clear vision of Potter's future in mind quite early on.  Perhaps most importantly, the ending works so much better in the novel; the movie ending just seemed to lack a little something, but the book not only fills in some gaps, it describes a much more trying set of warding charms and traps Harry, with the help of Ron and Hermione, must pass through in order to save the day.  Not only is this story enjoyable from start to finish, it is also both inspirational and educational.  Children can learn a great deal from Harry Potter and the way he fights for good against evil no matter what the risks, remains forever loyal to his friends, and never gives up under the most trying of circumstances.  Brave, noble, and true even at the worst of times, yet humble and shy in his moments of success and achievement, Harry Potter is truly a hero for the ages.	2003-06-20
1083256:US	53016962	R1RXX8BE2EKK3T	0971265909	788876418	The Tenth Muse (Third Verse Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A really quite extraordinary, enlightening read	The Tenth Muse, the first volume in The Third Verse Trilogy, is unlike any book I have ever read.  Lily G. Stephen has written a poetic, artistic novel that almost defies classification, combining mythology, romance, art, a touch of fantasy, and an impressive range of spiritual teachings.  While this book clearly aims to expand the reader's mind and promote his/her evolution toward a higher consciousness, one in which pain and negativity lose their debilitating effects on the human psyche, it does not have to convince you of its wisdom in order to enthrall you.  I don't happen to subscribe to a great deal of the New Age type thinking that lies behind the story, nor has this book drastically changed my approach to life and wisdom, yet I still enjoyed The Tenth Muse a great deal.  Lily G. Stephen has to some degree enabled me to see things in an altogether new way and from a unique viewpoint.  That in itself is a valuable reward for Stephen's effort.  Those who may discover a spiritual concept here that invites their own study and eventually leads them on a more comforting path through life may find much more than thought-provoking pleasure in these pages.<br />The novel is constructed around the lives of two extraordinary young ladies living largely parallel lives: Opal Courtright on Earth and Sapphire Deland on Zamora.  We follow these two young lives, witnessing their exposure to and growing participation in new ways of thinking: aikido, meditation, and a number of other largely Oriental spiritual paths to enlightenment.  These are subjects I know almost nothing about, but Stephen carefully explains some of the underlying concepts and beliefs behind them, striving for a unity of vision akin to the unity of mind and soul such teachings help inculcate.  As the story progresses, we meet with growing similarities between the two youths.  Sapphire, for example, becomes a serious student of spiritual enlightenment, while Opal's increasingly brilliant and insightful paintings (many of them based on dream memories of events in Sapphire's life) lead her almost unconsciously down the same roads of thought.  Occasionally, their worlds faintly touch, transferring a memento from one plane to the other.  As time goes on, and each young lady has to deal with change, loss, and growth, we find their two worlds rapidly converging.  Chapters which had been cycling back and forth from one character to the other suddenly rush together in a cascading climax of suspense and raw emotion, leaving me almost breathless in the process.  The book does not end at this point, however; there are greater parallels and lessons the author wishes to impart upon the reader.  The later chapters of the book bring a lot of loose ends together and make a final pitch for individuals to begin working toward their own enlightenment.  Only here does one sense a real intent on the part of the author to win recruits to her way of thinking, yet she does not allow her own wishes to get in the way of the story or go so far as to push readers away.  This final section takes a little something away from the overall effect of the story in my opinion, yet I can see how necessary and important a function it serves for the author.<br />The Tenth Muse both needs and deserves a reader's full attention.  The process of switching back and forth between similar yet different characters on two parallel worlds can cause moments of confusion, especially in terms of the important characters associated with each reality.  The sources and means of wisdom and emotional growth that Stephen brings to bear offer the biggest hurdle, however, to those of us unfamiliar with these sometimes ancient concepts.  This book takes you far deeper into such concepts as Zen than the prosaic \\"one hand clapping\\" paradigm.  There are many levels upon which one can connect with the story of Opal and Sapphire, and multiple readings may be required for those wishing to learn all of the complexities of this reallyquite extraordinary novel.y quite extraordinary novel.	2003-06-18
1086964:US	53016962	RN3MKNHMN5R9U	0451459202	58965026	Dragon Moon (Dragon de la Sangre)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A wonderfully inventive fantasy novel of modern dragons	Here there be dragons of a wonderfully inventive new breed that transcends the notions of myth and legend to take on a thoroughly modern form.  Dragon Moon picks up where Troop's earlier novel, The Dragon DelaSangre, leaves off, with a widowed Peter DeleSangre caring for his young son on an island off the Florida coast, overseeing his lucrative business remotely while he waits for young Henri to reach a level of maturity sufficient to allow for his introduction into the world of humans.  To all appearances, The People of the Blood, or dragons in this venue, are -- aside from their brilliant green eyes -- indistinguishable from humans, able to shape themselves into whatever form they desire.  Only when they are safe from human eyes do they assume their natural dragon form, free to fly and hunt as they please.  They do feed off humans out of necessity, but those who serve them well are rewarded and taken care of.  It is not an easy life, but Peter's absolute devotion and love for his young son come before his own natural desires to find a new mate.  For the five years following the death of his wife Elizabeth, he thinks only about her younger sister Chloe, waiting for her to come of age before journeying to Jamaica in an attempt to make her his bride.  While most female dragons, upon reaching sexual maturity, mate with the first male they come in contact with, Peter truly loves Chloe.  It is, in both human and dragon ways, an unusual courtship, one that leads Peter to the brink of either joy or sorrow.  Little does he realize at the time that this moment of emotional truth marks only the beginning of his stresses and travails; soon, he will find himself poisoned and at the point of death, Chloe locked away from his reach, his beloved son taken from him, and another Person of the Blood impersonating him back home on the mainland in an effort to steal both his company and his horde of wealth.<br />While I have not had a chance to read Troop's first book containing the first-person account of Peter DelaSangre's earlier years, I can safely say that Dragon Moon is eminently satisfying on its very own.  While Peter is a dragon by birth, he is remarkably human as a result of his experiences among men and women, and aside from his occasional slaughter and eating of humans, he is quite the dashing hero.  His deep love for his son and for Chloe, as well as his interest in human pursuits, marks him as a very distinctive dragon; the fears, loves, regrets, dreams, and other emotional feelings and wishes he communicates are universally understood, making him an incredibly sympathetic character.<br />Troop inevitably draws comparisons, both good and bad, to Anne Rice, and I for one am at something of a loss to explain why this should be so.  It is true that he has basically invented a brand new concept and history of dragons, remaking them in a thoroughly modern form, one which this book apparently explores in more detail than Troop's previous novel.  Peter and Chloe also do spend a lot of time mating, but this is essentially just an expression of their love for one another.  While Rice luxuriates in her prose, however, Troop maintains a riveting pace that manages to explore his characters rather deeply without ever impacting on the action and suspense.  Ultimately, Dragon Moon is a work of fantasy about loss and love, the importance of family, honor, and bravery, making this tale of modern dragons a thoroughly human story.first-person account of Peter DelaSangre's earlier years, I can safely say that Dragon Moon is eminently satisfying on its very own.  While Peter is a dragon by birth, he is remarkably human as a result of his experiences among men and women, and aside from his occasional slaughter and eating of humans, he is quite the dashing hero.  His deep love for his son and for Chloe, as well as his interest in human pursuits, marks him as a very distinctive dragon; the fears, loves, regrets, dreams, and other emotional feelings and wishes he communicates are universally understood, making him an incredibly sympathetic character. <br />Troop inevitably draws comparisons, both good and bad, to Anne Rice, and I for one am at something of a loss to explain why this should be so.  It is true that he has basically invented a brand new concept and history of dragons, remaking them in a thoroughly modern form, one which this book apparently explores in more detail than Troop's previous novel.  Peter and Chloe also do spend a lot of time mating, but this is essentially just an expression of their love for one another.  While Rice luxuriates in her prose, however, Troop maintains a riveting pace that manages to explore his characters rather deeply without ever impacting on the action and suspense.  Ultimately, Dragon Moon is a work of fantasy about loss and love, the importance of family, honor, and bravery, making this tale of modern dragons a thoroughly human story.	2003-06-16
1090001:US	53016962	R3VNJL8T09RG8B	0345353358	770452534	Missing Time	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A pioneering study of the alien abduction phenomenon	Missing Time is arguably the most important book on alien abductions ever written.  While other accounts such as The Interrupted Journey (detailing the 1961 abduction of Betty and Barney Hill) and Raymond Fowler's The Andreasson Affair had previously been published, this book, published in 1981, was the first to look for patterns and consistencies across a spectrum of different abductee reports.  While Missing Time now seems almost quaint and reserved in its observations and conclusions, it was incredibly bold for its time.  Budd Hopkins is truly one of the preeminent men in the field of UFOlogy today, and his earnest attempts at objectivity and scientific problem solving have long provided a blueprint for serious investigators working to discover the truth about the almost unbelievable phenomenon of alien abduction.  As one might naturally wonder how a very successful artist came to be an authority on a subject of this sort, Hopkins begins by giving you the background of his life and the sequence of events which led to his becoming a leading researcher in the field of alien abduction.  Having established his own credentials of a sort, he then proceeds to describe seven abduction stories that he has investigated, augmenting the narrative with small bits of information from cases still under study at the time of writing.  Comparing and contrasting these individual accounts, Hopkins draws several reasonable conclusions and then wraps the book up with his own theories and ideas about the truth of this serious matter.<br />There are several fascinating accounts presented in these pages, with most of the imparted information originating in hypnotic regression sessions.  Hopkins does a commendable job of supporting the legitimate applicability of this tool in breaking the barrier of silence often built around the minds of alien abductees.  All the while, he is careful to hold off any speculation of his own until the concluding chapter.  The seven accounts detailed in this book are something of an uneven bunch.  Several individuals essentially relived their abductions, communicating their complex emotions and observations along each step of the way.  One wove in and out between reporting the details of her childhood experiences and analyzing them from her now adult station in life.  One in particular was, I believe, a terrible witness who somewhat blunts the force of this book; this individual proved exasperating in what he would and would not describe, paused interminably over and over again during his sessions, and kept reporting the ideas that came to his mind as if they were imaginative guesses as much as actual memories.  Hopkins does do a good job of bringing out consistencies among these sometimes disparate accounts, and it is that identified consistency that convinced Hopkins of the reality of a phenomenon many individuals dismiss out of hand.<br />The reader of today may be struck by the differences between these accounts and more modern abductee revelations.  One of Hopkins' earliest theories was that individuals were lured to a certain place or found themselves suddenly pulled to the side of the road while driving at night.  None of these accounts begin with the abductee being taken out of his/her bed and floated through physical barriers.  Implants are barely mentioned until the very end, yet now the prevalence of possibly physical evidence in the form of tiny implants is a matter of great importance.  The possibility of alien-human hybridization projects is mentioned only briefly.  One has to remember that the research featured in Missing Time was pioneer work among a rather small sample of abductees; it did more to raise questions and encourage further research into this topic than it did to answer incredibly puzzling questions.  There are really two very important ideas to take away from this book: first, a period of unexplained, missing time is a common facet of the abduction experience.  Much more importantly, however, is Hopkins' assertion that the scope of this phenomenon may well be larger than previously thought.  The daunting implication is that untold thousands of men and women may have been abducted without ever having realized it.wever, is Hopkins' assertion that the scope of this phenomenon may well be larger than previously thought.  The daunting implication is that untold thousands of men and women may have been abducted without ever having realized it.	2003-06-13
1092452:US	53016962	R2FYFB0KIC8TWD	0743215273	942924535	Great Presidential Wit (...I Wish I Was in the Book): A Collection of Humorous Anecdotes and Quotations (Lisa Drew Books (Paperback))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Who knew Silent Cal was such a funny guy?	I really enjoyed reading Senator Bob Dole's entertaining look at the humor of the American presidents from George Washington to the present.  While this book is certainly entertaining, it is also instructive in its own little way.  Some former presidents seem to exist in name only, if that, in today's world, and Dole's little collection of quips and stories actually brings a little life into these important men of history.  While Dole does not explore the agendas and politics of each president, the sense of personality that comes through in the case of even the most inscrutable of our top public servants is often rather informative.  A sense of humor, while far from a qualification for the office, can be a great aid to any president, and Dole emphasizes the point that our greatest presidents have possessed both a funny bone and backbone.  Each president gets his own little section of the book, wherein Dole has assembled a number of presidential quotes and stories alongside a number of comments made by politicians and humorists about each president in turn.  I can't say that every reference here is funny, but there are some amazingly good zingers included, and I, as a whole, found this book highly entertaining.  Dole is a pretty funny man in his own right, and his sense of humor shows in these pages.<br />Dole goes so far as to rank the first 41 (counting Grover Cleveland only once) elected leaders of the free world in terms of their humor, and the fact that the top ten consist of five Democrats and five Republicans is evidence of the total lack of partisanship Dole brings to this endeavor.  Topping the list is Abraham Lincoln, and rightfully so; there are plenty of pages detailing the wit of our sixteenth President, a man who said \\"I laugh because I must not try\\" during the terribly difficult days of the War Between the States.  Second place goes to Ronald Reagan, the Great Communicator and master of the one-liner.  Third and fourth place go to Franklin and Theodore Roosevelt, respectively.  These top four really stand a world apart from their White House cohorts.  Fifth place goes to none other than Calvin Coolidge.  Now, this came as something of a surprise to me, but as Dole demonstrates, Silent Cal was indeed quite a jokester and humorist; in fact, the funniest episode recorded in this book, at least in my opinion, is attributed to Coolidge.  Kennedy, Truman, Lyndon Johnson, Hoover, and Wilson round out Dole's top ten.  As one proceeds through the book, the material for each president significantly decreases; there just isn't a lot of humorous material to work with for those presidents ranking at the bottom of Dole's charts: Taylor, Harding, Van Buren, Buchanan, William Henry Harrison, Pierce, Benjamin Harrison, and poor Millard Fillmore who seems destined to bring up the rear in just about every kind of presidential survey one can devise.  If these men ever said one thing funny, Dole includes it, but there are definitely slim pickings here.  As for other presidents who may be of special interest to readers, George Bush (number 41) is twelfth, Washington fifteenth, Jefferson sixteenth, Clinton seventeenth, Carter twenty-second, and Nixon twenty-fifth.  Since the results of the 2000 election were not known when this book went to the publisher, Dole has included a final chapter devoted to both George W. Bush and Al Gore.<br />Basically, Great Presidential Wit is one of the few politics-related books that both conservatives and liberals can both enjoy equally and civilly, as laughter knows no political party affiliation.Roosevelt, respectively.  These top four really stand a world apart from their White House cohorts.  Fifth place goes to none other than Calvin Coolidge.  Now, this came as something of a surprise to me, but as Dole demonstrates, Silent Cal was indeed quite a jokester and humorist; in fact, the funniest episode recorded in this book, at least in my opinion, is attributed to Coolidge.  Kennedy, Truman, Lyndon Johnson, Hoover, and Wilson round out Dole's top ten.  As one proceeds through the book, the material for each president significantly decreases; there just isn't a lot of humorous material to work with for those presidents ranking at the bottom of Dole's charts: Taylor, Harding, Van Buren, Buchanan, William Henry Harrison, Pierce, Benjamin Harrison, and poor Millard Fillmore who seems destined to bring up the rear in just about every kind of presidential survey one can devise.  If these men ever said one thing funny, Dole includes it, but there are definitely slim pickings here.  As for other presidents who may be of special interest to readers, George Bush (number 41) is twelfth, Washington fifteenth, Jefferson sixteenth, Clinton seventeenth, Carter twenty-second, and Nixon twenty-fifth.  Since the results of the 2000 election were not known when this book went to the publisher, Dole has included a final chapter devoted to both George W. Bush and Al Gore.  <br />Basically, Great Presidential Wit is one of the few politics-related books that both conservatives and liberals can both enjoy equally and civilly, as laughter knows no political party affiliation.	2003-06-11
1094885:US	53016962	R388C2YQOK298A	0441010520	208130995	A Just Determination (A Paul Sinclair Novel)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A deeply impressive novel of military science fiction	John G. Hemry's A Just Determination is a remarkably impressive work of military science fiction.  The critical action upon which the story hinges is actually rather brief, with the second half of the novel basically taking the form of a legalistic presentation of facts, charges, and adjudications.  A book of this kind could easily be dry, analytical, and far from engaging, yet Hemry's writing kept me deeply interested in the story at all times.  A large part of his success can be traced to his powerful character development skills as a writer.  As the futuristic novel opens, Ensign Paul Sinclair, fresh out of the naval academy, embarks on the USS Michaelson for his first real tour of space duty.  We see the ship through his eyes, and Sinclair's impressions and observations of ship dimensions, claustrophobic compactness, and cramped living conditions really make the Michaelson come vividly alive in the reader's own mind.  Hemry then paints amazingly lifelike portraits of the many important players in this legalistic thriller, men and women whose discrepancies in terms of my expectations of their actions helped me reach a better understanding of these fascinating individuals; if anything, they are too human.  Ensign Sinclair, for his part, is a sympathetic and remarkably likable character, making his share of mistakes as he attempts to juggle the demanding half-dozen important assignments he is given on board ship.  The fact that his character rings so true to this reader made his ultimate decisions all the more meaningful and honorable.  His shipmates seem every bit as real as he does: the irascible captain whom no one really respects or likes; the inscrutable Executive Officer whose commitment to the U.S. Navy determines everything she says and does; the officer who spends most of her time trying to avoid responsibility in spite of her obvious skills; the sympathetic mid-level officers who lend support to the new guy; the fellow officer who will say anything about his cohorts in an effort to make himself look good; etc.<br />We spend the first half of the novel learning the ropes alongside Ensign Sinclair as the Michaelson heads out to patrol a region of space.  Several months into its mission, the ship detects another craft illegally in its zone.  After several weeks of pursuit, events take place very quickly once the paths of both vessels finally converge outside of the Michaelson's proscribed zone.  The captain ends up giving the order to fire upon the vessel after it changes vectors to what is potentially a collision course with the Michaelson.  It is soon discovered that the other vessel was an unarmed civilian ship posing no real threat at all to the mighty warship, at which point the Michaelson is ordered to return to base, where the captain is to face court-martial proceedings for his actions.  Ensign Sinclair finds himself in the middle of all this drama; it was he who had delivered a summary of the ship's mission orders and rules of engagement; in his capacity as legal officer (for which he had only four weeks of training), he had told the captain, when asked, that the vague mission orders did seem to leave the decision as to how to proceed up to his own best judgment.  Notwithstanding this fact, Sinclair did not approve of the captain's decision to fire on the vessel, and he faces a moral dilemma in terms of the court-martial proceedings.  The captain is charged with broad violations that Sinclair legally does not believe are warranted, yet he wants the captain to be punished for his obvious mistakes in judgment and leadership failures.  As he ponders these weighty issues in his own mind, the reader is treated to an instructive lesson in morality, ethics, duty, and patriotism.  The end result is a praiseworthy course of action that definitely inspired this reader.<br />There is something of a love story theme advanced in the late stages of the plot.  Ordinarily, I might question the inclusion of such a device, butin this case it does really reinforce the points about duty, honor, and service that Hemry seems to be making.  The final chapters detailing the courtroom proceedings are far from mundane, having made me creep ever closer to the front of my seat in anticipation of the final judgment of the case.  I would never have expected a legalistic work of military science fiction to prove as exciting as A Just Determination most definitely is.  This is military science fiction at its best.t in this case it does really reinforce the points about duty, honor, and service that Hemry seems to be making.  The final chapters detailing the courtroom proceedings are far from mundane, having made me creep ever closer to the front of my seat in anticipation of the final judgment of the case.  I would never have expected a legalistic work of military science fiction to prove as exciting as A Just Determination most definitely is.  This is military science fiction at its best.	2003-06-09
1095895:US	53016962	R3OATJLDV0LUZM	1892950456	633300588	HORROR PLUM'D: INTERNATIONAL STEPHEN KING BIBLIOGRAPHY & GUIDE 1960-2000 (International Stephen King Bibliography and Guide)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The ultimate Stephen King bibliography	Horror Plum'd: An International Stephen King Bibliography and Guide (the title of which is derived from a passage in John Milton's Paradise Lost) is an amazing reference work best suited for those with a scholarly interest in the writings of the modern master of the macabre; it is also a work that the most fanatical of Stephen King fans will want to add to their collection.  This book is not for casual fans because it is almost exclusively a bibliographic resource.  After a short introductory essay, Collings gets right to work detailing the massive inventory of Stephen King items released all over the world in the years between 1960 and 2000.  The bibliography is broken up into five sections, the first and largest of which is a rundown of all the books.  Section A references novels, short story collections, nonfiction works, and multimedia adaptations of King's works (audiotapes, audio CDs, computer games, films, stage plays, teleplays and miniseries, and movies).  It almost boggles the mind to see page after page detailing the publication history of Stephen King novels in countries throughout the world.  Collings provides very short summaries and offers brief comments about the major works as he proceeds in a chronological fashion, and a limited number of images from different versions of King's books are included in these pages.  Section B is devoted to short fiction including published excerpts from longer works and screenplays published in anthologies, and Collings provides short comments on many of the more interesting items found here.  Section C is devoted to King's short nonfiction writings.  I find this section to be particularly useful because it includes references to all the books by other authors and editors which feature introductions and forewords penned by Stephen King.  Section D references the locations of King's limited poems, and Section E sweeps up what is left: audio and visual adaptations of original King materials not appearing in book form.  This is followed by a title index of King's works.<br />Horror Plum'd is the culmination of over fifteen years of hard work on the part of Collings.  Between 1985 and 1996, he published three less comprehensive Stephen King bibliographies (The Many Facets of Stephen King, The Annotated Guide to Stephen King: A Primary and Secondary Bibliography of the Works of America's Premier Horror Writer, and The Work of Stephen King: An Annotated Bibliography and Guide), but Horror Plum'd is the final, comprehensive edition of his work on this subject.  Perhaps the most important thing to keep in mind about this book is the fact that it includes only a select few references to articles and reviews of King's work.  This 547 page text is by and large devoted only to the work of Stephen King himself and not the cottage industry of King pundits.  Collings is working on a companion book to Horror Plum'd that will be exclusively devoted to scholarship, criticism, and reviews.  One can hardly imagine just how large such a volume will turn out to be.This is followed by a title index of King's works.<br />Horror Plum'd is the culmination of over fifteen years of hard work on the part of Collings.  Between 1985 and 1996, he published three less comprehensive Stephen King bibliographies (The Many Facets of Stephen King, The Annotated Guide to Stephen King: A Primary and Secondary Bibliography of the Works of America's Premier Horror Writer, and The Work of Stephen King: An Annotated Bibliography and Guide), but Horror Plum'd is the final, comprehensive edition of his work on this subject.  Perhaps the most important thing to keep in mind about this book is the fact that it includes only a select few references to articles and reviews of King's work.  This 547 page text is by and large devoted only to the work of Stephen King himself and not the cottage industry of King pundits.  Collings is working on a companion book to Horror Plum'd that will be exclusively devoted to scholarship, criticism, and reviews.  One can hardly imagine just how large such a volume will turn out to be.	2003-06-08
1098313:US	53016962	R1J7JY0B388QT8	0060936142	826438700	Mike Nelson's Mind over Matters	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Hilarious insight into human nature and pop culture	Who is Mike Nelson?  What makes this man tick?  What evil lurks behind the guise of goofiness he often adopts?  Mike Nelson's Mind Over Matters takes us into the mind of the man I now consider to be the funniest man on the planet.  After a decade of work on Mystery Science Theater 3000, Nelson has evolved into a remarkably witty, entertaining author.  His first book, Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese, featured his odd yet hilarious takes on modern, mainstream films, yet this topic did not take him very far afield from his work on MST3K.  Now, in Mind Over Matters, Nelson has decided to take on modern life directly, penning a series of vignettes about every-day events, popular culture, and his own childhood and family life.  This book is, in my opinion, even funnier and much more impressive than its predecessor.  It also gives us some insight into the man most of us MTS3K fanatics tend to view as an actual friend we just haven't met yet.<br />The book is organized into nine sections.  In Part One, Coping With It All, Nelson describes seemingly mundane events and activities that somehow become incidents of high strangeness: shopping trips, hotel stays, trips to a health club brimming with old wrinkled men who seem to enjoy showcasing their frightening nakedness in a locker room setting.  In Part Two, But Is It Art? he address topics such as movie-going and watching television; the real gem here is a fairly lengthy recounting of his own experiences in musical theatre.  Part Three, This Modern World, returns to the subject of modern life and such issues as computer security, annoying morning radio shows, and weird news reports.  He steps outside for a breath of fresh air in Part Four, The Great Outdoors, the pinnacle of which is his well-stated condemnation of leaf blowers.  Part Five, Remembrances of Stings Past, finds Mike recounting stories and imparting lessons about how things were \\"in his day.\\"  Here we get some good information of Nelson's own life experiences, including his early, usually quite unsuccessful, attempts at attracting the ladies.  In Part Six, Busy Bodies, he pauses to reflect on the human body and its obvious flaws; going beyond an investigation into the nature of skin moisturizers and words of wisdom on the topic of bad hair days, he gives us an awfully witty rundown on the past, current, and future state of men's fashion.  After a short stop on Food and Stuff in Part Seven, Nelson wraps things up in Part Eight, Me, Myself, and I, and Part Nine, The Whole Famn Damily (not a misspelling on my part), with some very funny anecdotes about his own childhood and his current adult life as a married man with two young children.  By the time you finish reading the book, you really do feel as if Mike has let you into his private world and allowed you the freedom to look around for a little while.<br />While there may be one or two essays that don't seem to hit the bull's-eye, his comical aim is, by and large, dead-on and eagle-eyed.  I found the book consistently funny and incredibly accessible from start to finish.  Nelson asks the types of questions we all ask at times, seeing that life is really just a crazy sort of game that doesn't always make a lot of sense but which never fails to amaze and entertain.  There is something of a Seinfeld-like feel to this material, but the writing is vintage Mike Nelson.  Some may find sections bordering a little too far on the absurd, but I say that life is absurd to begin with.  I find it a little strange that some MST3K fans didn't seem to successfully connect with this book; in my mind, this is the exact same Mike Nelson we knew on the Satellite of Love rambling on about nothing in particular, asking some of life's unanswered questions, and subtly offering an uncommon insight into human nature and popular culture just below the surface of laugh-out-loud comedy.  Mike is as funny as ever, but unlike Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese, this book and its collected essays have a real substance to them.  Now, rather than be entertained for the sake of being entertained, we can actually learn something about life while being entertained.ubstance to them.  Now, rather than be entertained for the sake of being entertained, we can actually learn something about life while being entertained.	2003-06-06
1099560:US	53016962	R3DTQRVEZ9U8AT	0618036288	345603370	Orwell's Luck	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A terrific book for children as well as adults	I don't as a general rule go around reading books classified as children's or young adult fiction, but I happened across this book while helping inventory the children's literature section at the library where I work. There was just something about this book that made it jump right out at me, and since I don't believe such things to be coincidental, I checked it out, took it home, and read it in one sitting. Even as a child, I moved quickly beyond children's books to the world of adult fiction, and now I am starting to wonder how many wonderful children's books such as Orwell's Luck have I missed out on enjoying over the years.<br />The Orwell of this novel is not George Orwell; he is in fact a cute little cottontail rabbit whom the unnamed, twelve-year-old female narrator finds lying atop the morning paper one day. The poor thing has no use of its hind legs, and our narrator naturally takes the rabbit in, sets him up in as comfortable a lifestyle as possible, and tries to nurse him back to health. Despite predictions of doom from her father, Orwell not only survives but begins to thrive, although his legs remain basically useless at first. The little girl is as precocious as she is darling, and her nurturing efforts are rewarded in an extraordinary way. An avid follower of daily horoscopes, she is soon quite surprised to find seemingly personalized messages appearing in her daily newspaper, messages that are coming from none other than Orwell. Orwell predicts the final score of the Super Bowl on one occasion, he gives his human nurse the winning lottery numbers that would have made the family fabulously rich had the girl been able to buy a ticket, and he waxes somewhat philosophical at times. The girl learns a lot from the rabbit about life, herself, and her family. Things are not exactly rosy at home during Orwell's early days as a member of the family. Her father loses his job for one thing, and the girl struggles to find friends at her new school. Through her rabbit, she learns that things happen for reasons, that one must look at things in different ways and from different viewpoints, that waiting can be part of a cure rather than a source of pain. Orwell's Luck is as philosophical and enlightening as anything you will find among books written for a 9 to 12 age level.<br />This is not some little children's book that can be read in the course of half an hour; it's not overly long, but it is quite substantive. Richard Jennings displays the remarkable ability to write for children without seeming to be writing for children. By this I mean that he does not \\"write down\\" to a child's level at all, yet the entire story is easily comprehensible and, for a majority of youngsters, inherently interesting. There is much truth, advice, and knowledge in these pages; as an adult, I feel that I too learned something from the remarkable Orwell, enjoying every minute of this well-told, nothing short of beautiful little book. I know very little about children's literature and even less about children, but I can't see how any child could not fall in love with this wonderful book.bbit, she learns that things happen for reasons, that one must look at things in different ways and from different viewpoints, that waiting can be part of a cure rather than a source of pain. Orwell's Luck is as philosophical and enlightening as anything you will find among books written for a 9 to 12 age level.<br />This is not some little children's book that can be read in the course of half an hour; it's not overly long, but it is quite substantive. Richard Jennings displays the remarkable ability to write for children without seeming to be writing for children. By this I mean that he does not \\"write down\\" to a child's level at all, yet the entire story is easily comprehensible and, for a majority of youngsters, inherently interesting. There is much truth, advice, and knowledge in these pages; as an adult, I feel that I too learned something from the remarkable Orwell, enjoying every minute of this well-told, nothing short of beautiful little book. I know very little about children's literature and even less about children, but I can't see how any child could not fall in love with this wonderful book.	2003-06-05
1100861:US	53016962	RXDPPGXH903FO	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Keep circulating the books	When Mystery Science Theater 3000 ended (a sore subject that I'm still far from ready to talk about), I couldn't help but worry about my buddy Mike Nelson (although I've never met him, I consider him a good friend, seeing as he plays a big part in many of my fondest memories from my 20s).  Would he, like Joel Hodgson, put together a one-hour comedy show that even I, huge Joel fan that I am, found frighteningly lame, and then simply fall off the face of the earth?  After ten years of writing and five years of acting for the show, would Mike's funny bone contain even a single additional drop of humor?  Would he, in desperation, agree to star in the production of Crow T. Robot's blockbuster epic Earth vs Soup?  I am quite happy to say that Michael J. Nelson is not only alive and well, he is as funny now as he was back in the halcyon days of Best Brains productions.  With the dawning of a new millennium, Mike Nelson became no mere writer but a full-fledged author, and Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese became the first of (hopefully) many books espousing his unusual brand of comic philosophy and reviving the lost art of coaxing milk (or beer) through the noses of individuals who do not heed the warning I am giving you right now: do not attempt to drink or eat anything while reading something written by Mike Nelson; in fact, even breathing while reading Nelson can be dangerous, so just dive in and come up for a quick gulp of air as you turn each page.<br />This book, in which Nelson propounds enthusiastically and, more often than not, acerbically at all manner of recent movies ostensibly a grade above the kind of fare he, Crow, and Tom were forced to endure while tripped on the Satellite of Love, is hilarious.  I'm not talking about the occasional smirk and rare, embarrassed giggle type of hilarious; I mean laugh-out-loud, absurdly high on the guffaw meter, don't drink or eat while reading (there, you've been warned twice) funny.  It's quite a treat to read Nelson's opinion of movies that many of us have actually paid to see within the environs of a sticky-floored, crying kid-attracting movie theatre.  No one involved in movie-making is safe from Nelson's rapier wit, especially Adam Sandler, Keanu Reeves, Jim Carrey, and the Baldwin clan.  Beginning with action films such as The Shadow and the works of Jean-Claude Van Damme, Nelson tackles \\"Wild Thangs\\" such as Ed and Dragonheart, an eclectic selection of TV shows, \\"science friction,\\" and less easily classifiable movies.  He even, and you've got to admire the man's commitment and courage, endured several rounds of \\"chick flix\\" and lived to tell us more cowardly sort of men the insidious dangers posed by attractive females suggesting we watch a movie such as The Bridges of Madison County with them.  On a roll, Nelson delves into the mystery of star-studded families and motion picture legends.  He even reviews Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie.<br />If humor were humidity, you would not be able to read this book because of significant water damage and the excessive bleeding of words on each page.  In a sense, Nelson's humor is much like that of the good old days of MST3K, and this fan felt not only comfortable but right at home from the very start.  His movie synopses are brilliantly funny and often over-the-top with completely foolish linkages to men and women of history as well as men and women Mike knows from his local barber shops and video stores.  He goes off on absurdly funny, almost limitless tangents that leave one woozy from laughing.  I should point out that Nelson's movie synopses may at times give away little spoilers for those who have not yet seen some of these movies, although it's sometimes hard to tell what is real and what Nelson is just making up.  I was pretty surprised to discover that I had not seen most of the movies mentioned here, although they were all recognizable by name.  I really don't think the occasional spoiler should bother anyone, though, becauseyou will be too busy putting the book down in order to grab on to your sides in split-preventing maneuvers to care very much.  If you still aren't convinced you should buy this book, let me point you to the author's photograph on the inside back cover featuring a perfectly smarmy-looking Mike Nelson sporting a reading jacket, pipe, and ascot; for me, this picture alone is worth the price of the book.you will be too busy putting the book down in order to grab on to your sides in split-preventing maneuvers to care very much.  If you still aren't convinced you should buy this book, let me point you to the author's photograph on the inside back cover featuring a perfectly smarmy-looking Mike Nelson sporting a reading jacket, pipe, and ascot; for me, this picture alone is worth the price of the book.	2003-06-04
1102619:US	53016962	R16K3UIYAWXJ98	0440212812	381454270	Lost Souls	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Brite strides boldly where Anne Rice fears to tread	Lost Souls, Poppy Z. Brite's first novel, may be shockingly perverse to those not already immersed in the darker waters of fiction and life, but with its lurid omnisexuality wrapped in a blood-encased poultice of horror, it stands as a mesmerizing achievement, lending ever newer blood to the world of vampirology.  While some may chide Brite's vampires for being so awfully unlike the debonair charmer Count Dracula or even the grossly disfigured Nosferatu, herein actually lies the strength of the novel.  In Brite's world, good and evil do not exist, and if they do, they are oftentimes quite difficult to tell apart.  There is not one character in this entire novel who is even within earshot of the bells of Normality, no one whom in all truth could be called a hero in the traditional sense.  This is a world encased in darkness; even the sunlight filters through halfheartedly, as if it realizes it is just fooling itself when it pretends it can wash away the darkness with its feeble rays of light.  The characters are exquisite yet deeply tainted, some by blood, some by drink and drugs, and some by the shiftier shadows that like to entomb the mind of man insidiously and secretly.<br />If nothing else, one cannot say these characters are forgettable.  We first meet Christian, a centuries-old vampire running a bar in New Orleans.  One Mardi Gras night, a trio of his brethren come into the bar and entrance him with their modern ways of dalliance, unrestrained pleasure-seeking, and vitality.  Christian is both literally and figuratively cold and dead inside, but the vampire trio are electric and unrestrained.  Twig and Molochai are almost childlike in their recklessness, but Zilla is something special.  His mysterious chartreuse-enlivened eyes do all but breathe fire through their entrancingly hypnotic gazes.  A young girl in the bar that night falls under Zilla's spell, and many months after Zilla and his friends have left New Orleans, a baby is born.  The baby grows up in Maryland, knowing he is different from everyone else; his name is Nothing, and at fifteen he sets off on a journey of self-discovery.  His first destination is Missing Mile, North Carolina, home of the underground musical group Lost Souls?, but he meets up, as if by fate, with Zilla's band of marauding vampires and finds the family he has been aching for all his life.  He and Zilla share their bodies as well as their feasts of blood, and Nothing has little trouble adjusting to the life he knows he was born to lead; he is a vampire.  Steve and Ghost, the members of Lost Souls?, enter the picture because of Nothing's strong identification with their music.  Ghost is the most remarkable character in the novel, a young man blessed with a gift of seeing into the minds of others, both alive and dead; his gift can be a curse at times, though, because he knows the pain of everyone.  Steve is his best friend, a perpetual drunk with a bad temper that caused him to lose the one girl he had ever loved.  All the roads of each character meet in Missing Mile, and the events and tragedies set in motion lead the reader from there back to New Orleans, ending in a climax I found remarkably well done.<br />Poppy Z. Brite is something of an acquired taste.  The sexuality of her characters is strikingly extreme, and Zilla's band of vampires are particularly uncaring in their choice of partners; the life essence can be found in a fluid other than blood, and these creatures of the night delight in sharing themselves with each other as they race through life on a perpetual search for kicks.  Drug abuse runs rampant among everyone in these pages, and the act of rape is consigned to one of those who comes closest to being a good guy.  As disturbing as the intense erotic aspect of Brite's writing may be, however, it lies at the core of her vampiric creations.  Zilla and his gang have no morals, no code of honor, no feelings whatsoever; there is not a trace of immorality found among them becausethey are completely amoral.  Brite raises the world of vampirism out of its traditional trappings, and therein lies the magic that sets Brite apart as a shockingly new, amazingly effective voice in modern horror.e they are completely amoral.  Brite raises the world of vampirism out of its traditional trappings, and therein lies the magic that sets Brite apart as a shockingly new, amazingly effective voice in modern horror.	2003-06-02
1105896:US	53016962	RK8JPZLQLLF0U	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Revenge is for dreams, never for reality	Having won the very first Hugo award for best science fiction novel with The Demolished Man, Alfred Bester faced a somewhat daunting task in trying to follow up his unparalleled early success.  The Stars My Destination (originally published as Tiger! Tiger! in the UK) proved to be a second influential masterpiece from this legendary grand master of the genre; while it can not lay claim to a Hugo award, many fans consider it the better of Bester's first two novels and one of the best science fiction classics of all time.  Personally, I find The Demolished Man to be a more polished, enjoyable read, but there can be no doubt that The Stars My Destination is a triumph.  The novel introduces us to one of science fiction's most memorable characters.  Gully Foyle is essentially \\"everyman,\\" meaning he is essentially meaningless to society.  With no education, no skills, and no ambition, his life consists of nothing more than just getting by.  Then, he suddenly finds himself stranded alone on a desolate spaceship, forced to spend six months inside a locker no bigger than a coffin (standing up, no less), his life of utter nothingness interrupted only by incredibly dangerous forays inside the vacuum of space on missions to replenish his food and oxygen supplies.  If nothing else, though, Gully Foyle is a survivor.  After about six months of his torturous existence alone in space, a ship from the very same line he flew on appears; Gully sends flares and signals into space like confetti, yet the ship zooms by, leaving him to die.  Gully Foyle does not just get angry; he devotes the rest of his life to destroying that ship and the crew who left him to die.  He will stop at nothing to exact his revenge, absolutely nothing.<br /><br />Foyle's return trip to earth comes by way of a detour that leaves him branded with the tattoo of a tiger-like mask on his face and the word Nomad tattooed into his forehead.  It is this mask (and the interplay it eventually leads him to have with his own emotions) that serves as the central motif of the story.  The mask represents the beast in him, the man who kills, rapes, plunders, usurps, and storms his way through life demanding it adapt itself to him rather than vice versa, and he has to learn that brute strength and selfishness will not accomplish his goals.  Back on earth, his life is suddenly of great importance, as it turns out there was a very, very precious cargo onboard his ship which the government wants and the company who owns it wants back, deeming it the only thing that can avert defeat in the war between the inner planets and the outer planets.  This war follows a total breakdown of all socioeconomic and political foundations caused by the discovery of jaunting.  In this future, man can now teleport himself hundreds of miles just by concentrating and willing the move to happen.  The technological aspects of Bester's future world are interesting if not sometimes prophetic, but this story lives and dies with its main character.  Foyle is indeed everyman in a sense, and his thoroughly human (albeit sometimes dangerously psychotic) emotions and desires make him accessible to readers of all generations of the past and future.<br /><br />I was a little surprised by the degree of comedy buried in these pages; while it is generally dark and sometimes meaningfully sarcastic and scathing in its implications, it manages at times to approach hilarity.  The story of how jaunting was discovered is a riot.  On the whole, this influential novel is a prototypical example of science fiction at its best; good science fiction does not rely on hard science or brilliant technological assumptions.  While a story may necessarily be built in the environment of hard science, success depends almost entirely on the strength of the characters and their humanity (be it good or bad); that is the heart of good science fiction, and Alfred Bester understood this perfectly.  That is why this novel will be read and studied for years and years to come.s to come.	2003-05-30
1110110:US	53016962	R2KW651C0QYT4O	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of sci-fi's most acclaimed and influential novels	The Demolished Man earned Alfred Bester the very first Hugo award for best science fiction novel of the year ever awarded, and the novel's influence on science fiction has been immense over the years.  The novel is a wonderfully original, fascinating tale of a future society in which guns and murder are all but forgotten, yet this brave new world's very future comes to hang in the balance as a result of one powerful man's thoughts, dreams, and fears.  In the world of 2301 A.D., seventy years have passed since the last murder, and guns are nothing more than forgotten museum pieces.  Espers, or peepers, men and women able to read minds when called upon to do so, are able to spot anyone contemplating a violent crime long before that person is able to act.  Perhaps only one man would dare to plan a cold-blooded murder and have the guts, influence, wiles, and coercive power to pull it off; such an audacious action can only be achieved with the aid of a first class peeper, and the ethics of each and every peeper is basically unassailable.  Ben Reich, head of the Monarch company and one of the most powerful men in the world, is losing his decade-long fight against the firm of Craye D'Courtney, and he eventually determines that he has no choice but to kill his rival.  It won't be easy, especially the bypassing of peepers, but he has the will and the means to pull off the impossible.  Prefect Lincoln Powell, a first class peeper, is called on to investigate the murder; figuring out who killed D'Courtney is easy, but proving it is something else.  Convincing the super-computer at the district attorney's office of an open and shut case requires every single piece of the puzzle being put into place.  The bulk of the novel revolves around Reich's machinations and brilliant moves and Powell's equally brilliant countermoves, with the case (and the novel) taking on much deeper implications toward the end as Powell begins to realize that his suspect is not only a dangerous man in the normal sense but is in fact a grave danger to the very universe as it now exists.<br />Perhaps the most interesting aspect of The Demolished Man is Bester's presentation of thought and communication among peepers.  Not only does he gives us a sense of the telepathic communication of a group of peepers, he describes it in an incredibly visual way; basically, he paints fascinating word pictures of telepathic thought communication.  Bester also uses a good deal of slang and invented concepts in his story, which is just one of the many aspects of the writing that cyberpunk and other avant-garde science fiction writers have been influenced by over the course of recent decades.  Lest you fear that Bester's writing is overly theorized and dull, I should point out the fact that the novel is blessed with a good deal of humor, action, insightful emotional complexities, and even a love story of sorts.  The ending holds a surprise or two for the reader (although the careful reader will figure out many things along the way), ensuring that the ending is in no way a let-down from the suspenseful and engaging read leading up to it.  It is a pity that Alfred Bester did not publish more novels and stories than he did over the course of his distinguished career, but the science fiction legacy he did leave behind will forever be studied, emulated, cherished, and most of all enjoyed by generation after generation of readers.e normal sense but is in fact a grave danger to the very universe as it now exists.<br />Perhaps the most interesting aspect of The Demolished Man is Bester's presentation of thought and communication among peepers.  Not only does he gives us a sense of the telepathic communication of a group of peepers, he describes it in an incredibly visual way; basically, he paints fascinating word pictures of telepathic thought communication.  Bester also uses a good deal of slang and invented concepts in his story, which is just one of the many aspects of the writing that cyberpunk and other avant-garde science fiction writers have been influenced by over the course of recent decades.  Lest you fear that Bester's writing is overly theorized and dull, I should point out the fact that the novel is blessed with a good deal of humor, action, insightful emotional complexities, and even a love story of sorts.  The ending holds a surprise or two for the reader (although the careful reader will figure out many things along the way), ensuring that the ending is in no way a let-down from the suspenseful and engaging read leading up to it.  It is a pity that Alfred Bester did not publish more novels and stories than he did over the course of his distinguished career, but the science fiction legacy he did leave behind will forever be studied, emulated, cherished, and most of all enjoyed by generation after generation of readers.	2003-05-27
1113281:US	53016962	R342ZRG81RK0CX	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	3	11	22	N	N	Bradbury's dark carnival reveals little magic to my eyes	I know that Something Wicked This Way Comes is a classic that many readers love, but I found the novel rather disappointing and can in all honesty only reward it with three stars.  For me, the writing was just too disjointed at times, full of little pot holes I kept catching my foot in.  The real world of this dark fantasy, the town before the dark carnival rolled in under the cover of night, never seemed real to me, and the friendship of the two boys, Will and Jim, never made perfect sense.  We are told they are so much alike, born two minutes apart, but they seem mirror opposites to me.  One aspect of Jim in particular is mentioned rather prominently yet never explored or even mentioned again, a fact I found disheartening.  Then there is Will's father, an older man stumbling quietly through just a few pages of the first half of the novel before becoming magically transformed into an eloquent speaker and incredibly able enemy of dark forces.  Certainly, there are aspects of the story I accepted and enjoyed, such as the issue of time and the ways in which boys want to be older and aging men and women long for a return to youth; it was exactly these most innermost desires that fed the strange carnival operators Mr. Dark and Mr. Cooger.  The idea of the carnival freaks being the remnants of the carnival's former victims is also good.  The machinery of the story, though, just never worked for me.  The mirror magic of the maze was not developed enough to be convincing, and the inner mysteries of the darkly magical carousel never seemed anything more than foolish to me.  Since the evils of the carnival were never convincing to me, the manner in which its harmful effects are fought seemed almost ridiculous.  My entire reading of this novel was something of a struggle, one which offered me only a few moments of satisfaction.  Knowing that this is Ray Bradbury, I tried very hard to like Something Wicked This Way Comes, but for whatever reason Bradbury's magic just never had any discernible effect on me.any discernible effect on me.	2003-05-24
1113356:US	53016962	R1W8Q5A65KY6XZ	0812518039	291778327	Midnight Sun	Books	3	4	6	N	N	One of Campbell's least satisfying novels	In Midnight Sun, Ramsey Campbell attempted to write a novel in the traditional, atmospheric horror style; in my opinion, he had only limited success in doing so.  I have seen a couple of people place this novel alongside the best of Algernon Blackwood and Arthur Machen, but in my opinion it falls far short of such a lofty mark.  I don't think it is in any way Lovecraftian either, I should add.  I've read a good many of Campbell's novels, and this is by far the most problematic of the bunch for me.  The story is built around some type of preternaturally remarkable presence lurking within the forest outside Ben Sterling's childhood home, a presence that has called Ben home to unwittingly pursue its agenda of remaking the world in its own ice-cold image.  The first section of the novels introduces us to Ben as a child.  As an eight-year-old, he runs away from his aunt's home and makes his way to the gravesite of his family, all of whom had recently died in an automobile accident.  Just before he can figure something mysterious out, he is returned to the home of his aunt, where we find him perusing the stories written by a singular ancestor of his, tales and legends brought home from the northern lands of the midnight sun.  His aunt seems quite wary of the book and gets rid of it, but the stories have already planted themselves in Ben's mind.  We then jump to the present, which finds Ben moving back to the Sterling home of his childhood with his wife Ellen, daughter Margaret, and son Ben.  From that point on, it's one incredibly drawn-out process of watching Ben change as the mysterious forces at work in the dark forest prepare the way for the mysterious reawakening of a force older than man.<br />The strange woods outside the Sterling home are of utmost importance in the events of this story, but Ramsey Campbell went a little overboard on his descriptions of it.  Every other page seemed to contain yet another lengthy appraisal of the strangeness of the forest, the mist above the forest, the way the forest seemed to move, etc.  There also seems to be about a sentence apiece for every single snowflake that falls during the blizzard-like winter serving as the backdrop of events.  Campbell just repeats himself over and over again to a frustrating degree, and this in fact works against his attempts to make the woods seem exotically creepy.  On another note, I became frustrated with Ben's obvious change in personality and his wife's repeated dismissal of any problem until the very end; anyone who keeps turning off my heat during a blizzard is going to have some words from me, I can assure you, and this is the least of Ben's obvious problems.  In this same vein, I have to point out my own displeasure at seeing the center of vision change from Ben to Ellen over the course of the second half of the book; this helps build the suspense for Ben's big (and ultimately disappointing) surprise, but I did not really like being thrown out of the main character's mind just when I was getting to know it.  Reaching the ending of Midnight Sun took more work and time than it should have, and the ultimate reward is no reward at all.  Suddenly, with only the weakest of a reason, Ben's thinking totally changes; this major plot point is not explained adequately at all, and it struck a major blow to my ultimate enjoyment of the story.<br />Midnight Sun could have been much shorter than it is without losing much of anything.  What it really needs, though, is a plausible ending that doesn't leave the reader feeling cheated.  I am a big fan of traditional horror, so I am not criticizing the genre when I say that this attempt at such writing falls far short of the bar set by the true masters of the early twentieth century.above the forest, the way the forest seemed to move, etc.  There also seems to be about a sentence apiece for every single snowflake that falls during the blizzard-like winter serving as the backdrop of events.  Campbell just repeats himself over and over again to a frustrating degree, and this in fact works against his attempts to make the woods seem exotically creepy.  On another note, I became frustrated with Ben's obvious change in personality and his wife's repeated dismissal of any problem until the very end; anyone who keeps turning off my heat during a blizzard is going to have some words from me, I can assure you, and this is the least of Ben's obvious problems.  In this same vein, I have to point out my own displeasure at seeing the center of vision change from Ben to Ellen over the course of the second half of the book; this helps build the suspense for Ben's big (and ultimately disappointing) surprise, but I did not really like being thrown out of the main character's mind just when I was getting to know it.  Reaching the ending of Midnight Sun took more work and time than it should have, and the ultimate reward is no reward at all.  Suddenly, with only the weakest of a reason, Ben's thinking totally changes; this major plot point is not explained adequately at all, and it struck a major blow to my ultimate enjoyment of the story.<br />Midnight Sun could have been much shorter than it is without losing much of anything.  What it really needs, though, is a plausible ending that doesn't leave the reader feeling cheated.  I am a big fan of traditional horror, so I am not criticizing the genre when I say that this attempt at such writing falls far short of the bar set by the true masters of the early twentieth century.	2003-05-24
1117393:US	53016962	R1PKBAPNCP4FEF	0812516389	77958429	Influence	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A decent read that is far from Campbell's best	While The Influence is by no means a bad read, it certainly does not represent Ramsey Campbell at his best.  An old matriarch named Queenie has managed to summon her family around her in her dying days, exhibiting a conspicuous amount of attention to her great-niece, whom she summons just before she dies.  As her family settles down in the house for the next few months, young Rowan begins to change, becoming more and more like the late Queenie herself.  Queenie had always had a terrifying influence on the family, particularly upon her nieces Hermione and Alison, Rowan's mother, once scaring Hermione so badly with a vision of death that the girl had to spend some time in hospital.  After Queenie's death, an acquaintance of the family supposedly kills himself after having tried to contact Alison about \\"the child.\\"  Rowan also finds a new playmate named Vicki whom no one but Hermione ever actually sees.  She, unlike her sister, is deeply suspicious of Queenie's motives even after death, knowing the old lady all but swore she would never really die, but everyone else thinks of her as just a little too unstrung by events.  Naturally, Rowan continues to take on more of Queenie's ways, eventually coming home a changed little girl after a traumatic night with her Aunt Hermione.  The story takes something of a weird turn here, one which ends up slightly problematic in my eyes.  The events of the last several chapters are thrown together a little haphazardly, with Campbell conveniently avoiding several thorny issues that I believe he really needed to elaborate upon.  The actual shift in focus is handled quite well, revealing itself rather surprisingly to me, but the novel's momentum increasingly falters at the very times it should be heating up.  Another plot device I didn't particularly embrace was the author's tendency to shift back and forth in time between characters; something would happen to one character in one chapter, then the next chapter would shift backwards and walk the reader up to the same established point through the eyes of another player in the events; this isn't necessarily a bad technique, but I found it a little awkwardly done at times.<br />The Influence has plenty of potential to interest and even please the potential reader, but it doesn't seem the type of novel one might find exhilarating; I basically watched events unfolding without ever finding myself really sucked into the drama.  Ramsey Campbell fans will surely want to read this novel, but there are several more impressive Campbell novels better suited for those wanting to try Campbell for the first time.alk the reader up to the same established point through the eyes of another player in the events; this isn't necessarily a bad technique, but I found it a little awkwardly done at times.  <br />The Influence has plenty of potential to interest and even please the potential reader, but it doesn't seem the type of novel one might find exhilarating; I basically watched events unfolding without ever finding myself really sucked into the drama.  Ramsey Campbell fans will surely want to read this novel, but there are several more impressive Campbell novels better suited for those wanting to try Campbell for the first time.	2003-05-20
1121452:US	53016962	R2FLF7EWPUST80	0061020613	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Progress just means bad things happen faster	For me, the Discworld is never as much fun as when I have Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat Garlick as my chaperones, and Witches Abroad is a truly seminal work starring my three favorite witches.  This is a story about stories, and on the anthropomorphic wonderland known as the Discworld stories are so powerful that they can become almost unstoppable forces; they are so important that they shape people rather than the other way around, making people do things for the sake of the stories alone.  Once a story gets going, it's almost impossible to stop it.  You don't tell Granny Weatherwax that anything is impossible for her to do, though, nor do you tell her you need her help, not unless you don't want her to come.  The fairy godmother Desiderata knows this, although she is not particularly adept at training a successor (and since witches know when they are going to die, her death is no excuse for such lack of planning).  Just before she dies, she wraps up her magic wand and sends it to Magrat Garlick, Lancre's youngest, most good-hearted, tradition-obsessed, open-minded, overlooked witch along with a note telling her appointed successor that she must go to Genua to prevent the girl Emberella from marrying the prince and that she must tell Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg that they are not to come with her.  Thus, all three witches are soon flying away from their homes in Lancre in route to the eastern port of Genua.  Their journey finds them bumping headlong into a number of different stories, Pratchett-twisted episodes such as one involving a young girl in a red cape, her grandmother, and a wolf.  It soon becomes obvious to the three witches that someone is making stories come true, but only Granny secretly knows just who is behind all this.  Arriving in Genua, they are exposed to the city's own brand of magic, namely voodoo, run up against snake sisters guarding poor Emberella, delight in an entirely new kind of cooking (the ingredients of which are kept from Granny for the most part, which is obviously quite the right thing to do), and set out to stop the warped Cinderella-based fairy tale events surrounding Emberella, knowing that, should Emberella marry the prince, the other fairy godmother (they come in pairs, incidentally), the witch wielding and invigorating her power by the use of mirror magic, would have power over the whole city and force her happy endings on everyone in town.  There's nothing wrong with happy endings, but being made happy against one's wishes and knowledge is one of very many things that Granny doesn't hold with.  As Magrat's attempts to use the magic wand result in only pumpkins and more pumpkins, success in this unexpected tour of fairy godmothering duty requires all three witches working together, and Granny herself needs all of her skills at headology when she confronts an important figure from her past.<br />The ingeniously satirical incorporation of fairy tales by Pratchett makes this book worth its weight in gold, but it is the constant bickering and resulting comedy between the three very different witches that makes this book so entertaining.  There is no citizen of the Discworld whom I find as fascinating and entertaining as good old Granny Weatherwax.  Her obstinacy and refusal to admit a deficiency of any kind is quite comical in and of itself, but put this beside poor Magrat's idealized notions and unconventional ideas (such as her decision to wear pants and thus, to Granny's horror, let men see where her legs are underneath them) and Nanny's ribald, good-natured humor and zest for life (and alcohol and dirty songs, etc.) and you've got a recipe for high comedy indeed.  Nanny's unique cat Greebo also takes on vast importance in this novel, offering us yet another unforgettable travel partner in this strange world of Pratchett's ingenious creation.  Granny's character is especially well-developed in this novel, and the new-found insights into her childhood offer quite a telling new insight into her personality.  Witches Abroad is among the best of the best of Pratchett's Discworld series.w insight into her personality.  Witches Abroad is among the best of the best of Pratchett's Discworld series.	2003-05-17
1122096:US	53016962	R3IR1CX023YY5O	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What's life without Death?	You wouldn't think about job security becoming a problem for Death, the Defeater of Empires, the Swallower of Oceans, etc., but of course the Discworld is itself a contradiction in terms.  When your world is a flat plane of existence transported through space atop the four elephants astride the Great Turtle A'tuin's back, the impossible is surprisingly commonplace.  In this bastion of animism and anthropomorphism, not only Death but the mysterious Auditors of Reality have been brought into existence via the mere consciousness running amuck throughout the world.  These murkily-defined Auditors, who hate nothing so much as individualism, feel compelled to force Death into retirement for the simple reason that he had taken on something of a personality.  If he actually has to die, Death is determined to at least live, and we soon find him working on Renata Flitworth's farm in the plains below the Ramtops under the assumed name of Bill Door.  Whereas Death has been known to indulge his curiosity of living men and women from time to time, in this significant Discworld chronicle he slips into the ways of man without conscious effort, and to some extent Bill Door actually does live for a time on the Discworld.<br />Naturally, you don't just replace Death over night; it takes a while for the collective unconscious of all living things to formulate a New Death, and this period of temporary instability proves quite burdensome.  One individual particularly unhappy about the current state of affairs is Windle Poons, the oldest of all the wizards in Unseen University.  When Death doesn't show up to meet him at the appointed hour, Poons eventually has little choice but to go and reinhabit his old body once again.  He's not the only undead person walking around in the days that follow.  As if the walking dead weren't problematic enough, inanimate objects begin moving around of their own accord, little glass snow-globes begin turning up everywhere, shopping carts with minds of their own become a menace to society, and the wholly unnatural buildup of life force caused by the absence of a Grim Reaper opens a window on the Discworld for the insidious invasion of the most fearful of all creations.<br />Reaper Man, the eleventh book in the series, is truly one of the quintessential Discworld novels.  We get to see plenty of Death and gain much more valuable insight into his outlook on life; his non-human humanity really shines through his skeletal essence on several occasions in these pages.  The always-hilarious wizards of Unseen University are in the mix of things as they should be, and they are joined by a number of Pratchett's most singular characters.  The remarkable Windle Poons, more alive than ever in his death, climbs out of the wheelchair of a very old, hard of hearing, mentally addled old wizard to become a very personable hero.  For the first time we meet Mrs. Cake, the small medium seer who has a habit of answering questions just before they are asked, Mrs. Cake's daughter Ludmilla who happens to be a werewolf, the aforementioned Renata Flitworth, the Death of Rats, and the unforgettable members of the Fresh Start Club formed by zombie Reg Shoe.  Those undead creatures who have decided to rally around Shoe's declaration that the dead aren't going to take discrimination lying down any longer include the reluctant vampire Arthur and his wife (Count and Countess Notfaroutoe), a banshee, an exceedingly shy bogeyman, and a wereman.  Pratchett's wit and humor are in exceedingly good form throughout, making this one of the most enjoyable and inherently interesting of all Discworld novels.r own become a menace to society, and the wholly unnatural buildup of life force caused by the absence of a Grim Reaper opens a window on the Discworld for the insidious invasion of the most fearful of all creations.  <br />Reaper Man, the eleventh book in the series, is truly one of the quintessential Discworld novels.  We get to see plenty of Death and gain much more valuable insight into his outlook on life; his non-human humanity really shines through his skeletal essence on several occasions in these pages.  The always-hilarious wizards of Unseen University are in the mix of things as they should be, and they are joined by a number of Pratchett's most singular characters.  The remarkable Windle Poons, more alive than ever in his death, climbs out of the wheelchair of a very old, hard of hearing, mentally addled old wizard to become a very personable hero.  For the first time we meet Mrs. Cake, the small medium seer who has a habit of answering questions just before they are asked, Mrs. Cake's daughter Ludmilla who happens to be a werewolf, the aforementioned Renata Flitworth, the Death of Rats, and the unforgettable members of the Fresh Start Club formed by zombie Reg Shoe.  Those undead creatures who have decided to rally around Shoe's declaration that the dead aren't going to take discrimination lying down any longer include the reluctant vampire Arthur and his wife (Count and Countess Notfaroutoe), a banshee, an exceedingly shy bogeyman, and a wereman.  Pratchett's wit and humor are in exceedingly good form throughout, making this one of the most enjoyable and inherently interesting of all Discworld novels.	2003-05-16
1123574:US	53016962	R2JDRX9GZE24GO	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A work of staggering beauty and emotional complexity	In the realm of modern literature, no star seems to be shining as brilliantly as that of Ian McEwan, and Atonement is a work of truly magical beauty and grace.  McEwan's writing makes the English language come alive with all sorts of powerful emotions and complex subtleties.  I can't say that Atonement is a particularly happy sort of book, but there's no reason why it should be.  Life's most important lessons are learned in times of sorrow and regret, and the lynchpin of this story is one girl's crime and the troubles that it brings cascading down upon a number of important lives with a terrible force, made even more tragic by the onset of war with the Third Reich.  Those looking for a light read may not find themselves immersed in Atonement; not only does it take a while for the novel to really take off, it is broken up into several somewhat drastically different narrative flows. It all works beautifully in the end, though, and casts a hypnotic spell over the reader.<br />First, we meet young, precocious, writer-to-be Briony Tallis and her family and friends.  The family home is suddenly filled with life again as Briony's brother and his friend from college come to visit - sister Cecilia having returned home from school a few months earlier, three cousins have moved in after their mother left her husband and ran off to Paris with another man, and Robbie Turner is once again a fixture on the landscape.  The son of a family servant, Robbie is an unofficial member of the family whose education has been financed by Briony's always-absent father.  On the particular day we meet these fascinating characters, Briony becomes an adult, throwing away childish dreams while seeking adult themes and stories to write, and a chance sighting of Cecilia and Robbie outside at the fountain sets the stage for a tragedy of immense proportions.  We soon move ahead a few years to witness the horrors of war during the British panicked retreat to Dunkirk, a riveting section of the book that is at first rather annoying given the fact that the first section ended at a point of high drama.  Briony comes to realize the gravity and unforgivable nature of what she has done, and we read about her first steps toward atonement in the third section, where she foregoes school to work as a nurse just as the war in Europe is rushing headlong onto England's very shores.  I found the description of the wounded soldiers and Briony's life as a nurse quite powerful and must admit feeling the onset of tears at one point.  The final section is an epilogue of sorts, taking us from 1940 all the way to 1999, and what we see is Briony still seeking to atone for what she did decades earlier.  The last few pages are infinitely sad, and I almost wish I hadn't read the last two pages because, in a way, they make these events even more tragic than they already were.<br />To a small degree, Atonement is a mystery of sorts, by which I mean to say that McEwan holds out several facts along the way, including one small bombshell, thereby keeping the story alive and riveting.  I think I am most amazed by his subtlety, however.  I was impressed by some really almost hidden parallels between the early and late portions of the novel; in most cases, McEwan simply inserts them for the careful reader to find and appreciate on his/her own.  Whereas many writers would go out of their way pointing blinking arrows at such little touches of complexity, McEwan simply slips them in with quiet grace.  I dare not say more about the plot than what I revealed earlier, but I have to reiterate my sense of wonder at this novel and its creator whom I consider, without the first qualm of doubt, a modern literary genius.hat is at first rather annoying given the fact that the first section ended at a point of high drama.  Briony comes to realize the gravity and unforgivable nature of what she has done, and we read about her first steps toward atonement in the third section, where she foregoes school to work as a nurse just as the war in Europe is rushing headlong onto England's very shores.  I found the description of the wounded soldiers and Briony's life as a nurse quite powerful and must admit feeling the onset of tears at one point.  The final section is an epilogue of sorts, taking us from 1940 all the way to 1999, and what we see is Briony still seeking to atone for what she did decades earlier.  The last few pages are infinitely sad, and I almost wish I hadn't read the last two pages because, in a way, they make these events even more tragic than they already were.<br />To a small degree, Atonement is a mystery of sorts, by which I mean to say that McEwan holds out several facts along the way, including one small bombshell, thereby keeping the story alive and riveting.  I think I am most amazed by his subtlety, however.  I was impressed by some really almost hidden parallels between the early and late portions of the novel; in most cases, McEwan simply inserts them for the careful reader to find and appreciate on his/her own.  Whereas many writers would go out of their way pointing blinking arrows at such little touches of complexity, McEwan simply slips them in with quiet grace.  I dare not say more about the plot than what I revealed earlier, but I have to reiterate my sense of wonder at this novel and its creator whom I consider, without the first qualm of doubt, a modern literary genius.	2003-05-15
1127919:US	53016962	RVUXDNLM19FI9	0671419056	742468357	The Parasite	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The horror is all in her mind - literally	There is just something unique about Campbell's writing that continues to draw me back, even though I sometimes find myself floundering in his prose.  Although I sometimes lose track of who is speaking to whom and find myself plodding through a miasma of words that sometimes lose my full attention, inevitably there are moments of brilliant insight or wide-eyed instances in which I realize that Campbell has lulled me into a sense of false security as a conscious means of entrapping me within a mental padded cell of his deft creation that make me glad I paid for the ride.  The Parasite, published in 1980, is one of his older novels, and it seems to offer, in a way, both the best and worst of the writer.  Although it seems somewhat rushed, the prologue is a gripping little presentation of a ten-year-old girl's terrifying though somewhat nebulous encounter with something called up from a seemingly playful Ouija-induced s&eacute;ance, a force she alone encountered inside a darkened, locked room after her older companions abandoned her to whatever horror they had unwittingly summoned.  After this electrifying start, the bulk of the book plods along at a sometimes tedious rate, very slowly preparing us for the last hundred pages of ever-intensifying mental anguish brought to bear upon our grown up little girl as she is not only compelled to remember the things her mind has tried to lock up forever but to deal with forces of an almost cosmic nature that threaten her life and marriage from the outside.  Even this pales in comparison to the real evil here, though, in the form of a long-dead practicioner of black magick (which is worse than just magic) who resides inside her own mind.<br />In a way, this novel is one of self-discovery, with a grown up Rose finding her seemingly placid life as a teacher and writer drawn unstoppably toward matters of an occult nature.  Her terrifyingly new out-of-body experiences come in time, with study and practice, to empower her, and she begins to feel strengthened in some way by the unnatural talents she reluctantly admits to possessing.  Then her world falls apart before her eyes, and she realizes that her new powers were never really hers to begin with but instead belong to the parasite that has lived within her own mind undetected for twenty years.  Some part of her inner strength saves her from a total breakdown, but the mad scramble of the final major section of the book proves an increasingly unnerving experience for the reader seeing the world through her eyes.  Even the ending is not really the ending, but that is only to be expected from a man of such insidious talents as Ramsey Campbell.  While far from his most exciting novel, The Parasite more than satisfies the seeker of psychological horror who stays with it until the end.ins to feel strengthened in some way by the unnatural talents she reluctantly admits to possessing.  Then her world falls apart before her eyes, and she realizes that her new powers were never really hers to begin with but instead belong to the parasite that has lived within her own mind undetected for twenty years.  Some part of her inner strength saves her from a total breakdown, but the mad scramble of the final major section of the book proves an increasingly unnerving experience for the reader seeing the world through her eyes.  Even the ending is not really the ending, but that is only to be expected from a man of such insidious talents as Ramsey Campbell.  While far from his most exciting novel, The Parasite more than satisfies the seeker of psychological horror who stays with it until the end.	2003-05-11
1129957:US	53016962	RAFAWCMN2MH8E	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	65	73	N	N	A message that grows more important every day	It was a pleasure to burn.  So begins, with this absolutely perfect opening line, Ray Bradbury's celebrated exposition of the dangers of censorship.  Everybody knows that Fahrenheit 451 is a novel about book-burning, but this story goes much deeper than those not having read it may suspect.  Its message truly does become even more germane and prophetic with every passing day.  The skeleton of the plot is rather basic, really.  Guy Montag is a fireman whose job it is to burn books and the houses in which these dangerous manifestations of inane scribbling reside - usually hidden.  No one even remembers a time when firemen actually put out fires.  We join Guy's life as he enters into a cusp of uncertainty.  He has dared to pilfer a book here and there and stash them in his house, a most dangerous crime indeed.  He soon meets a free-spirited teenager who breathes life into his state of uncertainty and opens his mind to brand new thoughts and possibilities.  When she makes him admit that he is not happy, his life is changed forever.  He can't take the lack of substance all around him, the wife who thinks of nothing but \\"the family\\" (a type of interactive programming that dominates the living room), the impending war which everyone essentially ignores.  He knows there must be something else in life, and he comes to believe that the enlightenment he is after must surely be contained in books.  Montag's conversations with his Fire Chief on this subject are quite astounding and revealing, and between this and Montag's friendship with an old former professor, we learn how Montag's world came to be this way.<br />The government did not simply ban books overnight.  Censorship started slowly and at low levels.  Some minority group complained about this - deleted; another group complained about that - gone; these fellows over here object to so-and-so - zip.  So many little pieces of books were removed that, over time, the very essence of books was destroyed.  While the government has now come to insist that reading books is a crime, the horrible truth of the matter is that the society itself, in its fractious ways, is the party responsible for this tragic state of affairs.  Can there be a more timely topic for our own time?  We continually see history books being rewritten, \\"objectionable\\" words, phrases, and (horror of horrors) ideas removed from novels and poems so that no one can possibly be offended by anything under the sun.  Censorship is a cancer on society, and the world needs visionaries such as Ray Bradbury to forcefully draw attention to the cold hard facts that a majority of the population seems to ignore or fails to acknowledge.  Once the true meaning has been chopped out of the books lining our shelves, it will be too late to reverse the momentum without the aid of some kind of miracle.  Fahrenheit 451's message is one that all people should be exposed to, and this novel is such a quick (but powerful) read that everyone really should read it.  As horrible as it is to envision, I fear that this type of censorship could indeed happen here.nt has now come to insist that reading books is a crime, the horrible truth of the matter is that the society itself, in its fractious ways, is the party responsible for this tragic state of affairs.  Can there be a more timely topic for our own time?  We continually see history books being rewritten, \\"objectionable\\" words, phrases, and (horror of horrors) ideas removed from novels and poems so that no one can possibly be offended by anything under the sun.  Censorship is a cancer on society, and the world needs visionaries such as Ray Bradbury to forcefully draw attention to the cold hard facts that a majority of the population seems to ignore or fails to acknowledge.  Once the true meaning has been chopped out of the books lining our shelves, it will be too late to reverse the momentum without the aid of some kind of miracle.  Fahrenheit 451's message is one that all people should be exposed to, and this novel is such a quick (but powerful) read that everyone really should read it.  As horrible as it is to envision, I fear that this type of censorship could indeed happen here.	2003-05-09
1132083:US	53016962	R24NE9PCCXQ8CI	0679750193	188599514	First Love, Last Rites: Stories	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A bold, maudlin, and strangely brilliant set of stories	Approaching Ian McEwan for the first time, it seemed only natural that I begin with this collection of eight short stories, his first published work.  I must say that McEwan leaves quite an impression on the reader.  In fact, these stories are quite unlike anything I have ever read.  One is hard pressed to determine just how to feel about the stories told here, attempting to integrate shock, sympathy, understanding, depression, ennui, enlightenment, and all manner of other reactions into some sort of vision of enlightenment.  The first thing that becomes apparent is McEwan's boldness and unique vision; he uses some words that never find themselves into the published works of most other writers, but his employment of them seems to be a matter of craft rather than an act of gratuitousness.  The very first story, Homemade, is a somewhat disturbing and surreal account of incest, with a lad seeking to understand the type of world his adventurous friend lives in engaging his younger sister in an act of sexual exploration.  The story ends quite suddenly, leaving me to interpret the deeper meaning completely on my own.  Solid Geometry is sort of the odd duck in this collection, with its theoretical mathematics feel distinguishing it from its counterparts.  The story works quite well in describing the protagonist's uneasy relationship with his wife, but the kicker at the end comes off as just a little too esoteric.  Cocker at the Theatre is the most outr&eacute; (and short) story in the collection; personally, I didn't get a lot out of it, but it does demand attention.<br />For the most part, the reader stays on morbid ground.  Some have described these tales as having a definite aspect of horror to them, but I would not equate them with horror at all.  Each story seems to bear the weight of an imperfect world on its shoulders, and the visions of reality that pour forth throughout the book are maudlin and disturbing without being horrifying in the normal sense of the word.  Last Day of Summer is a perfect example, and as such it is clearly my favorite of the bunch.  We gain insight into the lives of ordinary people in a setting that is slightly out of the ordinary, and the story seems to me to bristle with a few soft strokes of existentialism, particularly at the end.  Butterflies is an almost equally atmospheric offering, creating an atmosphere of moral decay and slight madness around the drowning of a young girl and the unfolding account of the protagonist's insight into that death.  Conversation With a Cupboard Man is quite impressive, telling the story of a man so over-protected by his mother for the first two decades of his life that he cannot adjust to modern life on his own, longing to return to a childhood in which his needs are met and he is sheltered.  The title story is a relatively weak piece compared to its companions here, failing to provide me with the insight I was expecting from it.  Finally, there is Disguises, yet another disturbing story of over-protection and sexual innuendo, covering a boy's desire to break away from the significantly odd atmosphere of his home life and his struggle to adjust at the crossroads of his public and private worlds.<br />McEwan exhibits what I consider something of a singular style in his writing.  Oftentimes throwing together a string of fairly short sentences, he nevertheless avoids any sign of choppiness and proves amazingly efficient at making even the shortest sentences say a great deal.  The subject matter of a few of these stories might bother some readers, particularly the incestuous relationships that are implied if not laid out in a few of the stories, but McEwan unwinds his short dramas in an impressively literary style, granting even the most controversial of subjects a lofty plane on which to evolve.  The most disturbing aspects of this collection actually have nothing to do with any overt acts themselves but rather with an evocation of the psychological depths of a numberof quite interesting characters.  First Love, Last Rites won't pick you up when you're feeling down, as it can cast quite a maudlin spell over the sensitive soul, yet it offers quite a uniquely illuminating study of human nature and the loss of innocence.uite interesting characters.  First Love, Last Rites won't pick you up when you're feeling down, as it can cast quite a maudlin spell over the sensitive soul, yet it offers quite a uniquely illuminating study of human nature and the loss of innocence.	2003-05-07
1133259:US	53016962	R2ULCCV3339X2K	0670805904	187361012	Dark Gods	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Promising tales that fail to deliver	Since reading Dark Gods and Klein's novel The Ceremonies a dozen years or so ago, I had built up a legend of Klein's amazing talent and horror writing prowess in my head, fueled in part by this author's virtual disappearance from the world of publishing since the mid-1980s.  I especially hailed this collection of four novellas as examples of unparalleled, Lovecraft-infused marvels of horror.  Having now reread Dark Gods, I have to wonder just what I was thinking about years ago.  Klein is definitely a talented author, but each of these novellas is disappointing in its own way.  Children of the Kingdom has its moments, building up a story with giant worm-like entities insinuating themselves into a senior adult facility in New York, introducing us to a single-minded Costa Rican man attempting to prove that the birthplace of man was actually in Costa Rica and, tossing tradition upon its head, arguing that the lost tribe of Israel was in point of fact a lost tribe of Costa Rica.  The ending, though, is just too ambiguous to be wholly satisfying - this is a problem that repeats itself in the remaining tales.  Petey forces us to endure a smarmy dinner party, tossing in occasional insinuations about the former owner of the house; the best it manages to produce are some trivial parlor tricks with a certain Tarot card, refusing in the end to even acknowledge the type of denouement which the reader necessarily anticipates.<br />Black Man With a Horn is much better than the previous two novellas, introducing us to a failed missionary returning home in disguise in fear of something unspeakable happening to him.  Our protagonist becomes an audience to this man's story of his work in Malaysia and witnesses his heavy unease regarding a symbolic black man blowing a horn (finding out later that the man is doing quite the opposite of blowing).  Eventually, the protagonist comes to realize that the Chauchas his new acquaintance is running in fear from are none other than the Tcho-Tcho people described by H.P. Lovecraft , forcing him to conclude that these people actually exist after all.  Much of the effect of this story is harmed by the protagonist's identity as an old horror writer who held a place in the Lovecraft Circle.  Finally, there is Nadelman's God, the best story of the bunch but one that also ultimately disappoints.  The premise is very good, though.  Nadelman is a normal guy who wrote a lengthy decadent poem about a dark god who shows his love for man by punishing him.  Some twenty years after the poem was published in his small college magazine, a rock group bases a song on the poem.  This, indirectly, brings a strange young man into Nadelman's life, one who has taken the song literally, built an image in the likeness described therein, and claims to have given the creature life and a bid to do his god's work.  The unwanted encroachment of this seemingly disturbed new \\"groupie\\" has an effectively stifling effect on Nadelman, but once again the conclusion fails to deliver much of a punch. The atmosphere is made ready for an impressive thunderstorm of an ending, but the storm never materializes.<br />Basically, Dark Gods contains two average stories and two promising pieces of fiction, all of which seem to shy away from delivering a conclusion of any force or satisfaction.  I really hate to give this book only three stars, but I must.  No matter how much I enjoyed these tales over a decade ago, I have to say that they each prove something of a let-down to me today.ho people described by H.P. Lovecraft , forcing him to conclude that these people actually exist after all.  Much of the effect of this story is harmed by the protagonist's identity as an old horror writer who held a place in the Lovecraft Circle.  Finally, there is Nadelman's God, the best story of the bunch but one that also ultimately disappoints.  The premise is very good, though.  Nadelman is a normal guy who wrote a lengthy decadent poem about a dark god who shows his love for man by punishing him.  Some twenty years after the poem was published in his small college magazine, a rock group bases a song on the poem.  This, indirectly, brings a strange young man into Nadelman's life, one who has taken the song literally, built an image in the likeness described therein, and claims to have given the creature life and a bid to do his god's work.  The unwanted encroachment of this seemingly disturbed new \\"groupie\\" has an effectively stifling effect on Nadelman, but once again the conclusion fails to deliver much of a punch. The atmosphere is made ready for an impressive thunderstorm of an ending, but the storm never materializes.<br />Basically, Dark Gods contains two average stories and two promising pieces of fiction, all of which seem to shy away from delivering a conclusion of any force or satisfaction.  I really hate to give this book only three stars, but I must.  No matter how much I enjoyed these tales over a decade ago, I have to say that they each prove something of a let-down to me today.	2003-05-06
1135432:US	53016962	RDY1C4S51QGXE	0553250558	96306908	The Ceremonies	Books	4	36	38	N	N	A flawed masterpiece of atmospheric horror	T.E.D. Klein entered the world of horror fiction with a great big splash when The Ceremonies was published in 1984.  The novel was met with much critical success, being nominated for a 1985 World Fantasy Award and winning the British Fantasy Society award for best novel.  Stephen King proclaimed it the most exciting horror novel since Peter Straub's Ghost Story.  The Ceremonies really is a magnificent work of horror, but it is not for everyone.  If you like action on top of action, you may find yourself bogged down and discouraged by this novel.  At over 500 pages, it is rather long, and it can seem even longer than it really is to readers seeking quick thrills.  Klein builds this novel quite slowly and tediously, creating an atmosphere of impending doom that grows in short increments from one page to the next.  It is not the awful events that make this horror novel work; it is the atmosphere of dread and suspense.  One cannot help but detect a little bit of Lovecraft in Klein (and not just because one of the characters is called the Old One), although both men's style differs considerably.  The power that stands to be unleashed by the completion of \\"the ceremonies\\" described here is gargantuan, an awesome, world-destroying creature called up from the depths of the earth, a creature too ancient to even be labeled evil.<br />There are several storylines running through this novel, and their paths converge on only a few occasions, which is a facet of the writing that may bother some readers.  Jeremy Freirs is a graduate student and teacher who decides to spend his summer working on his dissertation and preparing for the class he will be teaching in the fall on Gothic Literature; he thinks he has found the perfect place in Gilead, New Jersey, is a world all to its own, the home of a strict religious sect with extremely puritan ideas.  Moving into a former storage building on the farm of Sarr and Deborah Poroth, he expects to spend a productive summer free from essentially all distractions - he is quite wrong in this assumption.  Meanwhile, in New York, the rather reserved Carol Conklin goes about trying to survive in the big city on a small income from her job at a library.  She meets Jeremy in New York just before he leaves for the summer, and a connection is made which will find the couple developing a romantic relationship on somewhat strange terms.  What Jeremy and Carol do not know is that this relationship is the work of a strange, little old man known as Mr. Rosebottom.  Rosie is actually the Old One working to bring his master back after a very long absence, and Jeremy and Carol are the unsuspecting keys to his success.<br />It can take some time to really get into this novel.  A lot of time is spent introducing the characters, describing their true standing in the events to come, and introducing us to the Poroths, their farm, their community, and their ascetic religion.  In time, the story comes alive in much the same way that untold numbers of snakes and worms come to infest the countryside of Gilead.  Some might say that nothing much happens until late in the novel, but plenty is going on in terms of building the proper atmosphere in which this novel lives and breathes.  The religious tie-ins to the events at the Poroth farm work beautifully in this context.  As much as I love this novel, though, I have to say it is not perfect.  Despite the rich and closely cultivated storyline, the relationship between Jeremy and the virginal Carol is rather mechanical, never developing the least bit of spark; Jeremy is in fact much more attracted to Deborah Poroth than he is to Carol.  I did find the Old One to be a really effective character, one strong yet mysterious enough to hold this novel together as it see-saws back and forth between Jeremy in Gilead and Carol in New York, but there is seemingly a weakness in terms of character development here that prevents me from giving this novel five stars.  Despite this fact, The Ceremonies is a truly landmark effort deserving to be read and admired by all who pursue the darker paths and are willing and eager to let the plot develop at its own pace without becoming frustrated over the lack of action early on.monies is a truly landmark effort deserving to be read and admired by all who pursue the darker paths and are willing and eager to let the plot develop at its own pace without becoming frustrated over the lack of action early on.	2003-05-04
1141053:US	53016962	R3I5YY8ZFRH4VI	0843924926	880992634	Horror House	Books	3	6	8	N	N	An average, rather forgettable horror novel	I picked up a few J. N. Williamson horror novels on the cheap several years ago, but it is only now that I decided to read one of them.  The covers are awfully cheesy, and Williamson does not seem to get a lot of respect or acknowledgement in the horror community, so I did not have high expectations as I entered the \\"doors\\" of Horror House.  Part of the plot did indeed seem intriguing, namely the inclusion of Thomas Edison in this story.  This novel is, to some degree, based on fact, at least insofar as the past events related in the novel are concerned.  Edison did work on a machine he hoped would enable him to contact the dead, and apparently there was a house in Pittsburgh whose dark legacy served as the starting point for the Horror House of Williamson's story.  The early parts of the novel are not bad, detailing the first acts of grisly murder that took place in the house, then detailing Edison's secret visit there to test his new device and the results he obtained when the machine actually worked.  Then we are transported to the present and introduced to our three main characters.  Laura Hawks is a struggling writer who takes a job working for a small publishing house run by Ben Kellogg, and the two of them begin work on a book based on the hauntings at Horror House; they are joined by parapsychologist and former Antichrist-defeater Martin Ruben, who quickly discovers that his friends are in over their heads on this one.  Oddly enough, none of the ensuing action takes place anywhere near the haunted house.  Instead, the story involves the discovery and reactivation of Edison's machine and the dire consequences of this action.  Shedding logic and believability all along the way as it meanders to a conclusion, the story boils down to an entrapment of all of the world's evil in a localized area and the decision that must be made by our triumvirate of heroes as to how to proceed in a fight against a seemingly unbeatable foe of Evil with a capital E.<br />Logic aside, the plot moves along fairly well, and I would not consider Hell House a bad or unreadable book at all.  That being said, however, the dialogue often sounds quite forced, and more than once I found myself saying \\"Oh, for Pete's sake,\\" as a particular debate ran on and on with characters repeating the same arguments ad infinitum.  I can't say the characters weren't reasonably well developed, but some combination of their descriptions and the commonly stilting dialogue combined to forestall my efforts to suspend my disbelief and let myself really be drawn into Williamson's story.  The relationship between Laura and Ben also holds no real spark, making Williamson's occasional use of love scenes seem somewhat annoying and out of place.  This novel could be considered ghost-like itself because there really is little of substance here upon which the reader can take hold.  Horror House can serve as a nice diversion, but in the long run it proves quite forgettable.de, the plot moves along fairly well, and I would not consider Hell House a bad or unreadable book at all.  That being said, however, the dialogue often sounds quite forced, and more than once I found myself saying \\"Oh, for Pete's sake,\\" as a particular debate ran on and on with characters repeating the same arguments ad infinitum.  I can't say the characters weren't reasonably well developed, but some combination of their descriptions and the commonly stilting dialogue combined to forestall my efforts to suspend my disbelief and let myself really be drawn into Williamson's story.  The relationship between Laura and Ben also holds no real spark, making Williamson's occasional use of love scenes seem somewhat annoying and out of place.  This novel could be considered ghost-like itself because there really is little of substance here upon which the reader can take hold.  Horror House can serve as a nice diversion, but in the long run it proves quite forgettable.	2003-04-29
1144145:US	53016962	R11LVIU3R9MODE	0385334176	837891915	Deadeye Dick: A Novel	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Symbolic musings on the life of an unforgettable character	Deadeye Dick is a novel only Kurt Vonnegut could have written - quirky, strange, thought-provoking, and a little bit depressing.  The story of Deadeye Dick and his family is not a happy one.  Rudy Waltz acquires his unusual nickname at the age of twelve by accidentally killing a woman in his hometown, but the whole story starts well before Rudy was even born.  His father was supposedly a promising artist, or at least his own mother thought so, but he and his painting tutor did little more than travel around getting drunk and carousing with women of ill repute; after the tutor was exposed as a sham, Otto Waltz went to Austria to study in the years before the Great War; his lack of talent forbade him entry to the Academy, and he developed a friendship with another failed artist who later became chancellor of the Third Reich.  This association with Hitler and some of his ideas would come back to haunt Otto in the 1940s.  Rudy was Otto's second son, and on the day when his father bestowed upon him the key to the gun room, Rudy took a rifle up to the top of the cupola at his family's most unusual residence, fired it randomly, and unknowingly shot a pregnant woman right between the eyes while she was vacuuming - thus did Rudy receive the nickname Deadeye Dick.  His father insisted on making a production about how everything was his fault, and life would never be the same again for the dysfunctional Waltz family.  They lost everything, and life got little better as Rudy matured.  The story of Deadeye Dick and his family goes on to include such events as a decapitation, a death by chimney (it was made of radioactive cement), and the eventual death of everyone in the whole town by way of an accidental neutron bomb explosion.  There is a lot of symbolism in the book, and Vonnegut's discussion of what certain symbols mean in the introduction is particularly helpful in understanding this novel (although I'm still a little unsure about the random inclusion of recipes throughout the story).  One experiences a definite lack of closure upon completing this fascinating read, and that inevitably disappoints some readers, including myself to some degree, but I don't think any can deny the fact that Deadeye Dick offers a typically Vonnegut-like interpretation of life and offers much food for thought to the serious reader.the story).  One experiences a definite lack of closure upon completing this fascinating read, and that inevitably disappoints some readers, including myself to some degree, but I don't think any can deny the fact that Deadeye Dick offers a typically Vonnegut-like interpretation of life and offers much food for thought to the serious reader.	2003-04-27
1145914:US	53016962	R2S7WJWRMOTX1E	0385334141	735242912	Mother Night	Books	5	254	261	N	N	A novel about serving evil too openly and good too secretly	To the best of my knowledge, there really is no other writer quite like Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.  Mother Night appears to be a rather straightforward, albeit quirky, novel at first glance, but as one delves down into the heart of Vonnegut's prose one finds grounds for contemplation of some of life's most serious issues.  This novel is the first-hand account of Howard Campbell, Jr., a most remarkable character.  Campbell is an American-born citizen who moved to Germany as a child and became the English-speaking radio mouthpiece for Nazi Germany during World War II.  In the fifteen years since the end of the war, he has been living an almost invisible life in a New York City attic apartment.  He misses his German wife Helga who died in the war, sometimes thinks about his pre-war life as a successful writer of plays and poems, and perhaps just waits for history to find him once again.  As we begin the novel, he has been found and is writing this account from a jail cell in Israel, awaiting trial for his crimes against humanity.  While he is reviled by almost everyone on earth as an American Nazi traitor, the truth is that he was actually an agent working for the American government during the war; this is a truth he cannot prove, though.  Thus, in this 1961 novel, the hero is ostensibly a Nazi war criminal.<br />The primary moral of Mother Night, Vonnegut tells us in his introduction, is that \\"we are what we pretend to be\\" and should thus be pretty darned careful about what we are pretending to be (a secondary moral being the less enlightening statement \\"when you're dead, you're dead\\").  In the eyes of the entire world, Campbell is exactly what he pretended to be during the war, a traitorous Nazi purveyor of propaganda who mocked and demoralized allied troops as well as regular citizens.  Internally, Campbell hardly knows what he is anymore; he claims no country, no political values, wanting only to live in a \\"nation of two\\" with his beloved wife Helga once again.  A series of significant events forces Campbell out of the cocoon of his past fifteen years, and his thoughts and actions along the way provide big juicy morsels of food for thought: taking personal responsibility for one's actions, the harsh truths of war and peace, the sometimes vast differences between truth and fact, individual redemption before self and society, finding direction and a purpose in a world gone mad, etc.  Vonnegut's scythe-like dark humor cuts deeper than mere satire, aiming directly at some of the darker sections of the human heart, areas which most individuals too often ignore or refuse to acknowledge.  The gallows humor can be quite funny on the surface, but it is in actuality a scalpel which Vonnegut wields to open up the heart and soul of the reader for self-examination.  Mother's Night, the title of which is taken from Goethe's Faust, is a relatively short but very powerful novel.of significant events forces Campbell out of the cocoon of his past fifteen years, and his thoughts and actions along the way provide big juicy morsels of food for thought: taking personal responsibility for one's actions, the harsh truths of war and peace, the sometimes vast differences between truth and fact, individual redemption before self and society, finding direction and a purpose in a world gone mad, etc.  Vonnegut's scythe-like dark humor cuts deeper than mere satire, aiming directly at some of the darker sections of the human heart, areas which most individuals too often ignore or refuse to acknowledge.  The gallows humor can be quite funny on the surface, but it is in actuality a scalpel which Vonnegut wields to open up the heart and soul of the reader for self-examination.  Mother's Night, the title of which is taken from Goethe's Faust, is a relatively short but very powerful novel.	2003-04-25
1146877:US	53016962	R22XRGJ32ZSK8G	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	55	58	N	N	The thrilling novel that made Grisham a household name	The Firm was published in 1991, and almost overnight John Grisham became a household name and a force to be reckoned with in the realm of fiction.  There must be something in the water down in Oxford, Mississippi; while Grisham is certainly no Faulkner, he is a man who knows how to make a novel come alive and ensnare any reader who comes along.  I really do not care for lawyer-type novels as a general rule, and the fact that Grisham makes such stories so gripping and fascinating has me quite in awe of his talents.  Mitch McDeere (whom many may still envision as Tom Cruise, since he played in the role in the movie based on this novel) is a highly intelligent yet monetarily challenged law student finishing up his degree with high honors at Harvard.  Holding serious offers from prestigious Chicago and Wall Street law firms for his services, he decides to go ahead and hear the pitch from a smaller law firm in Memphis.  What he hears is an offer he cannot believe and cannot refuse.  A starting salary significantly higher than he would make elsewhere, promises of large bonuses for passing the bar exam and succeeding on the job, an ascension to partner in as short a time as a decade, a new house with a miniscule mortgage rate, a brand new BMW, and other perks soon have Mitch and his wife Abby settling down in Memphis to enjoy a life of luxury (albeit with hard work on his part).  The firm really seems to care about Mitch and his family, wanting happy marriages with several children, to a degree that has Abby a little suspicious.  Mitch passes the bar exam, and life is great, despite the fact he is working eighty hours or more a week.  Then an FBI agent comes to see him, dropping hints of nefarious dealings at the law firm, asking him for help.  Thus begins a journey in which Mitch must first decide whether to risk the lives of himself and his wife to violate his legal oaths and sell out the Mafia-controlled law firm, or take his chances, make his millions, and hope the feds dont find enough evidence to eventually land him and all of his coworkers in prison.  It is really an exciting story, as the McDeeres have to deal with and evade both the feds and the Mafia in their efforts to somehow bring down the firm without sacrificing their own lives.<br />I found the schemes Mitch employed on his behalf were quite inventive and plausible, but as the novel progressed in the later stages I found myself wondering how the Mafia could really be incompetent enough in their surveillance to keep losing track of Mitch at crucial times.  I can understand the feds having a little trouble staying a step behind him, but you would think that the Mafia could have put an end to all of these games (and to Mitch) long before he got into a position to bring them down.  Also, Abbys transition from a housewife who wishes her husband wasnt spending all of his time at work to a wily assistant to her scared and scheming husband is a little abrupt.  I also had a hard time completely liking the protagonist after a certain indiscretion on his part early on.  Im not complaining, though, because the tension of the novel ratchets up nicely in the final stages and kept me turning the pages with bated breath.  I havent read Grishams more recent novels, so I cant say whether or not the quality of his writing has gone down over the years.  What I can say, having read both A Time to Kill and The Firm, Grishams first two novels, is that the man really and truly had it at the start of his career.  The action never ebbs, the story never bogs down, and the reader finds himself hanging on for dear life and loving every minute of it as he/she follows the course of whatever events Grisham chooses to relate.s dont find enough evidence to eventually land him and all of his coworkers in prison.  It is really an exciting story, as the McDeeres have to deal with and evade both the feds and the Mafia in their efforts to somehow bring down the firm without sacrificing their own lives.<br />I found the schemes Mitch employed on his behalf were quite inventive and plausible, but as the novel progressed in the later stages I found myself wondering how the Mafia could really be incompetent enough in their surveillance to keep losing track of Mitch at crucial times.  I can understand the feds having a little trouble staying a step behind him, but you would think that the Mafia could have put an end to all of these games (and to Mitch) long before he got into a position to bring them down.  Also, Abbys transition from a housewife who wishes her husband wasnt spending all of his time at work to a wily assistant to her scared and scheming husband is a little abrupt.  I also had a hard time completely liking the protagonist after a certain indiscretion on his part early on.  Im not complaining, though, because the tension of the novel ratchets up nicely in the final stages and kept me turning the pages with bated breath.  I havent read Grishams more recent novels, so I cant say whether or not the quality of his writing has gone down over the years.  What I can say, having read both A Time to Kill and The Firm, Grishams first two novels, is that the man really and truly had it at the start of his career.  The action never ebbs, the story never bogs down, and the reader finds himself hanging on for dear life and loving every minute of it as he/she follows the course of whatever events Grisham chooses to relate.	2003-04-24
1150016:US	53016962	R171CHEXOZGDJ6	0061008737	244235272	The House Next Door	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Southern Gothic meets suburbia in this haunting tale	Stephen King devotes a significant number of pages to Anne Rivers Siddon's The House Next Door in Danse Macabre, his remarkable study of all things horror.  Without King's reference, I would probably have never crossed paths with this novel.  Siddons is not a horror writer, yet in this, her second published novel, she has produced a rather remarkable work of psychological horror, tilling the same fertile fields of Southern Gothicism that a William Faulkner might have worked in decades earlier.  The Atlanta suburb of Siddons' creation is a social microcosm of the South in juxtaposition between the old and the new, a place where one's identity is determined by one's position and set of friends, and it is the effects of the house next door on this tight-knit, structured community that really serve as the focus of Siddons' attention.  As such, the \\"haunting\\" is never really creepy and is certainly not frightening in the least, especially given the fact that we see the effects of the horror through the eyes of our protagonist and her husband, relying on their reports of sights and sounds we really never get to witness firsthand.  There is no ghost in the normal sense here, no discernible force that seems to lie behind the horror of events.  Siddons' grounding of her tale in reality and in a community her readers can visualize and relate to in a tangible way is absolutely necessary in order for this novel to work.  As Siddons has said in reference to The House Next Door, \\"Without belief, there is no terror.\\"<br />Some readers have had trouble fully connecting with the narrator of events, Colquitt Kennedy, and her husband Walter, but I really do not.  Colquitt can sometimes become a little tiring in terms of her laments of mounting pain and sorrow, but she does not come across to me as a person who puts her social or mildly affluent social position ahead of her humanity.  After all, the Kennedys make some entirely self-less decisions when it comes to warning future homeowners of the danger lurking in the walls of the beautiful house next door.  The house is unique and brand new, a brilliantly designed structure erected on a site local architects claimed could never support a house.  The very antithesis of the traditional haunted Southern manor or plantation house, the house uses its loveliness to entice families inside its seemingly normal walls, somehow isolating each family member's greatest weaknesses and vulnerabilities and playing upon those to enact the destruction it thrives on.  The brilliant young architect becomes an important player in this drama, and his character helps build a bridge of plausibility between the brand new home and the tragedies befalling those who live within it.  The book is basically broken up into three sections, each one telling the story and eventual tragedy of a different new family, the haunting and tragic factors increasing dramatically as the house feeds itself on the evil forces it unleashes.  This premise works beautifully, making The House Next Door a fascinating read for both horror lovers and general readers alike, casting its nets far and wide to entrap readers of all sorts in its unsettling clutches.  The ending, which seems to disappoint some readers, really feels right to me and is by no means anticlimactic.  Anne Rivers Siddons succeeds in transplanting classic Southern Gothic horror into a modern, idyllic setting in which it seemingly does not belong.  This is what makes the house so dangerous and makes the story all the more fascinating.ers of the danger lurking in the walls of the beautiful house next door.  The house is unique and brand new, a brilliantly designed structure erected on a site local architects claimed could never support a house.  The very antithesis of the traditional haunted Southern manor or plantation house, the house uses its loveliness to entice families inside its seemingly normal walls, somehow isolating each family member's greatest weaknesses and vulnerabilities and playing upon those to enact the destruction it thrives on.  The brilliant young architect becomes an important player in this drama, and his character helps build a bridge of plausibility between the brand new home and the tragedies befalling those who live within it.  The book is basically broken up into three sections, each one telling the story and eventual tragedy of a different new family, the haunting and tragic factors increasing dramatically as the house feeds itself on the evil forces it unleashes.  This premise works beautifully, making The House Next Door a fascinating read for both horror lovers and general readers alike, casting its nets far and wide to entrap readers of all sorts in its unsettling clutches.  The ending, which seems to disappoint some readers, really feels right to me and is by no means anticlimactic.  Anne Rivers Siddons succeeds in transplanting classic Southern Gothic horror into a modern, idyllic setting in which it seemingly does not belong.  This is what makes the house so dangerous and makes the story all the more fascinating.	2003-04-22
1152451:US	53016962	R1S6Y40K2FXDUB	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A simply mesmerizing debut novel	Jeffrey Eugenides' first novel The Virgin Suicides is an almost surreal, haunting, wholly unforgettable work of literary art.  It has an almost unmatched depth and resonance that penetrates deeply into the ephemeral layers of life and humanity.  In company with the vaguely revealed narrator and his former childhood friends, the reader becomes a peeping tom spying on the five young ladies next door and developing an intense need to understand their innermost thoughts and feelings and to come to know what terrible forces lurking inside that increasingly deteriorating house could possibly lead each of them to take their own lives.  There's no real mystery to this story, as the reader is told from the very first page that the five girls will all commit suicide; the heart of the novel lies in the search for answers that can never truly be forthcoming.<br />The Lisbon girls - Cecilia (13), Lux (14), Bonnie (15), Mary (16), and Theresa (17) haunt every page of this novel; even as one reads about their lives during the tumultuous year in which all would commit suicide, one sees only ephemeral visions of what they could have been without any penetrating snapshots of their engaging in life in a literal sense.  Cecilia, the youngest, is the first to go.  Three weeks after slitting her wrists in an unsuccessful attempt to die, she leaves a party thrown for her own benefit and hurls herself from an upstairs window onto a picket fence.  The neighborhood boys are there when it happens and thus feel an intense link to the lovely girls next door who die without ever really having lived.  We hear their private conversations and speculations about the girls and witness their attempts to both penetrate the deadly gloom that soon wraps the house in a death shroud as well as to somehow save the girls from a fate seemingly forced upon them by destiny.  While certain adolescent issues of a sexual nature meander through their thoughts, the image they cast of the girls is one of purity of a sort.  Even Lux, the one sister who is far from virginal, comes across as some type of mystical being whose most sordid of acts seems less than unclean.<br />All we learn about the tragic sisters comes from our narrator and his friends, boys whose fascination and surreal love for the girls never loses its hold on them in later adulthood.  The images conveyed about the mysterious interior of the house and the complete and utter breakdown of the entire, tragic Lisbon family is filtered through their eyes.  The Virgin Suicides really is a type of ghost story and as such can only be analyzed and pondered over without being \\"solved.\\"  Eugenides does seem to wander off into tangents on a couple of occasions, but by and large he builds this story up beautifully to its previously stated yet still tragically shocking ending.  The novel gets under your skin and penetrates your very heart, leaving a very real emotional imprint on the reader's mind and soul.  This is an exquisitely written masterpiece of a novel, lyrically gripping in its style and mesmerizing in its emotional impact.sort.  Even Lux, the one sister who is far from virginal, comes across as some type of mystical being whose most sordid of acts seems less than unclean.  <br />All we learn about the tragic sisters comes from our narrator and his friends, boys whose fascination and surreal love for the girls never loses its hold on them in later adulthood.  The images conveyed about the mysterious interior of the house and the complete and utter breakdown of the entire, tragic Lisbon family is filtered through their eyes.  The Virgin Suicides really is a type of ghost story and as such can only be analyzed and pondered over without being \\"solved.\\"  Eugenides does seem to wander off into tangents on a couple of occasions, but by and large he builds this story up beautifully to its previously stated yet still tragically shocking ending.  The novel gets under your skin and penetrates your very heart, leaving a very real emotional imprint on the reader's mind and soul.  This is an exquisitely written masterpiece of a novel, lyrically gripping in its style and mesmerizing in its emotional impact.	2003-04-20
1153225:US	53016962	R3HEVWRV4QC3JX	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Make time to read A Time To Kill	A Time To Kill, John Grisham's first novel, is a remarkably compelling, bold, fearless, lofty achievement for a new writer.  While the book was picked up and published in small numbers at first, it was not until The Firm placed Grisham squarely on the map that this earlier effort was republished and made available for the masses of his new fans.  What impresses me most about A Time To Kill is the way in which Grisham grabs your attention and sucks you right into the story immediately every time you pick it up; my interest and fascination was retained throughout the whole 500+ pages.  I'm generally not a fan of lawyer or police novels, but the criminal events forming the crux of this novel are visceral right from the start, as little 10-year old Tonya Hailey, a black girl, is brutally raped and assaulted by two cruel white men.  Grisham doesn't wait around to throw his best stuff directly at the reader.  The two men are arrested and put on trial, but Carl Lee Hailey, Tonya's father, gets hold of an M-16 and blows both guys away (along with a deputy's lower leg) in the very halls of the courthouse.  Jake Brigance, our protagonist, is determined to get his new client acquitted, a very tough task when everyone knows how the man planned and carried out the murders in cold blood.  Naturally, some folks think Carl Lee should be declared a hero for what he did, while others argue that vigilante justice cannot be permitted.  Since a black man killed two white men for raping his black daughter, race quickly becomes the big tent under which a legal and social circus is performed in the small town of Clanton, Mississippi.  The black churches organize to support Carl Lee, calling in the NAACP and urging blacks from all over that part of the state to come to the courthouse demanding Carl Lee's release.  The defunct Klan reemerges in the town and goes well beyond simple intimidation of jurors and Jake Brigance himself.  Needless to say, there is a lot of human drama contained in these pages.<br />As eminently readable as this novel is, though, a few things about it bother me enough for me to take away one star from my rating.  The action is just not real enough.  Carl Lee is given unimaginable privileges by the black sheriff while being held in jail, for one thing.  The most prominent black preacher in the county has a number of sinful ways about him.  The judges seem to behave inappropriately at times, and some of the antics of Jake and the D.A. during the trial provide sources of humor that seem inappropriate.  As for Jack, I found it impossible to ever really like the man.  All he cares about is keeping this client and getting all the publicity for defending this man before the eyes of the nation.  He tells his wife he will drop the case if it looks like he or his family is in danger, but that is pledge is proven quite false.  He is rather unethical at times, proves himself to be less than careful in his trial preparation, and he spends the better part of the crucial days drinking like a fish.  John Grisham says there is a lot of himself in Jake Brigance, and maybe all lawyers really are as superficial as the protagonist, but I hope that is not the case.<br />As compelling a read as this book is, much of its fate naturally hinges on its conclusion.  Will Carl Lee be freed or sentenced to death?  I can accept the climax of these events as it is written, but it does feel somewhat rushed.  After oftentimes slowly and carefully picking over every bit of action and dialogue, things just happen too quickly in the end.  The judgment of the case also belies events in the courtroom, and one main character is all but forgotten at the end.  No first novel should be perfect, and this one certainly isn't, but it is nevertheless one of the most amazing first novels I have read from an author.  Grisham keeps your hands glued to the pages from start to finish.hese pages.<br />As eminently readable as this novel is, though, a few things about it bother me enough for me to take away one star from my rating.  The action is just not real enough.  Carl Lee is given unimaginable privileges by the black sheriff while being held in jail, for one thing.  The most prominent black preacher in the county has a number of sinful ways about him.  The judges seem to behave inappropriately at times, and some of the antics of Jake and the D.A. during the trial provide sources of humor that seem inappropriate.  As for Jack, I found it impossible to ever really like the man.  All he cares about is keeping this client and getting all the publicity for defending this man before the eyes of the nation.  He tells his wife he will drop the case if it looks like he or his family is in danger, but that is pledge is proven quite false.  He is rather unethical at times, proves himself to be less than careful in his trial preparation, and he spends the better part of the crucial days drinking like a fish.  John Grisham says there is a lot of himself in Jake Brigance, and maybe all lawyers really are as superficial as the protagonist, but I hope that is not the case.  <br />As compelling a read as this book is, much of its fate naturally hinges on its conclusion.  Will Carl Lee be freed or sentenced to death?  I can accept the climax of these events as it is written, but it does feel somewhat rushed.  After oftentimes slowly and carefully picking over every bit of action and dialogue, things just happen too quickly in the end.  The judgment of the case also belies events in the courtroom, and one main character is all but forgotten at the end.  No first novel should be perfect, and this one certainly isn't, but it is nevertheless one of the most amazing first novels I have read from an author.  Grisham keeps your hands glued to the pages from start to finish.	2003-04-19
1158427:US	53016962	RIERMW350DDUG	0786704454	817630267	The Loved Dead	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Lovecraft revisions offering some enjoyable reads	The Loved Dead assembles a number of stories that H.P. Lovecraft revised for less talented would-be authors of weird tales.  While it is quite impossible to know just how much of himself Lovecraft inserted into these tales, they are by no means to be assigned to his creative endeavors.  Personally, I don't see a lot of Lovecraft at all in these tales despite the sorts of cryptic, Mythos-related references made in a number of the selections.  Examining these stories in and of themselves, on their own merit, I must say I rather enjoyed a number of them, however.  Adolphe de Castro's The Last Test manages to insert a nice little aura of creepiness into what is essentially an unremarkable pulp horror tale.  Zealia Bishop, one of the better writers of Lovecraft-revised fiction, sets the story of Medusa's Coil in such an atmospheric setting that its far-fetched plot does only minimal damage to one's enjoyment.  Two entries from Hazel Heald are really quite good indeed; not only are The Man of Stone and Out of the Aeons compelling stories, they come closer than all of the other revised stories to capturing the spirit of Lovecraft himself.  Duane W. Rimel's The Tree on the Hill lacks an original ending but does succeed in tapping a small vein into the cosmological realm so richly mined by Lovecraft.  Rimel's The Disinterment also shows potential but is more seriously weakened by a far too predictable plot.<br />The remaining stories seem to decline in quality as one progresses through them.  1922's The Horror at Martin's Beach is remarkable not for its rather ineffective craftsmanship so much as its attribution to Sonia H. Greene, Lovecraft's wife of some two years.  C.M. Eddy, Jr. contributes four short stories to this collection: Ashes, The Ghost-Eater, The Loved Dead, and Deaf, Dumb, and Blind.  These tales just fall too much in line with standard, pulp horror themes that they become caricatures of themselves and of the weird tales in vogue at the time; a Lovecraft would have been able to make the ideas come out in an effective way, but nothing really seems to click in the revised words of Eddy himself.  Henry S. Whitehead makes a valiant effort in The Trap, but the story of a magical mirror capable of pulling someone into it and thus freeing that person from time and space just never finds a plane of plausibility upon which it might flourish.  The only two stories I did not care for at all in this book are R.H. Barlow's Till A' the Seas and The Night Ocean, both of which seem to be exercises in over-description lacking any discernible backbone of an actual plot.<br />While many of these stories possess an unmistakably amateurish quality and can by no means be associated with the literary genius and fruitful imagination of H.P. Lovecraft himself, I did get a lot of enjoyment from reading most of them.  Lovers of weird tales in all their sundry fashions should find several pleasant diversions in the pages of this book.  Those looking for Lovecraft-quality fiction, however, must never forget the fact that H.P. Lovecraft revised but did not actually write these tales.  I would not consider The Loved Dead a must-buy for casual Lovecraft fans because I don't detect much of his influence in these pages; of course, fanatical admirers of the master of the macabre will naturally want to add these revised stories to their collection.have been able to make the ideas come out in an effective way, but nothing really seems to click in the revised words of Eddy himself.  Henry S. Whitehead makes a valiant effort in The Trap, but the story of a magical mirror capable of pulling someone into it and thus freeing that person from time and space just never finds a plane of plausibility upon which it might flourish.  The only two stories I did not care for at all in this book are R.H. Barlow's Till A' the Seas and The Night Ocean, both of which seem to be exercises in over-description lacking any discernible backbone of an actual plot.  <br />While many of these stories possess an unmistakably amateurish quality and can by no means be associated with the literary genius and fruitful imagination of H.P. Lovecraft himself, I did get a lot of enjoyment from reading most of them.  Lovers of weird tales in all their sundry fashions should find several pleasant diversions in the pages of this book.  Those looking for Lovecraft-quality fiction, however, must never forget the fact that H.P. Lovecraft revised but did not actually write these tales.  I would not consider The Loved Dead a must-buy for casual Lovecraft fans because I don't detect much of his influence in these pages; of course, fanatical admirers of the master of the macabre will naturally want to add these revised stories to their collection.	2003-04-15
1161438:US	53016962	R2E20UWB97FFD8	0786709642	670752723	The Horror in the Museum and Other Revisions	Books	4	26	27	N	N	These revisions include a few of great interest to HPL fans	One of the means by which Lovecraft supported himself was in revising stories written by younger, would-be writers.  These revisions are problematic because it is virtually impossible to say how much of Lovecraft himself is to be found in them.  I believe that, with a few exceptions, the master of the macabre did not lend much of his influence in the retelling of these inferior tales, but a certain few of them do possess sufficient traces of Lovecraft to make them of interest to those followers in his footsteps.  Oddly enough, the two stories that actually list Lovecraft as co-author, The Crawling Chaos and The Green Meadow, are the worst of the bunch.  Both of these Elizabeth Berkeley stories are flights of fancy which forego any real plot in favor of lofty, dream-enshrouded flights of fancy which cannot even begin to compare to the Dunsanian, dream-cycle myths that Lovecraft perfected on his own.  William Lumley's The Diary of Alonzo Typer is a rather formulaic tale of ancient evil and the discovery of a stranger's ancestral lineage upon his return to the home of a dead forebear.  It gives lip service to such Lovecraftian gods as Shub-Niggurath but falls short of dramatically gripping the reader.  Wilfred Blanch Talman's Two Black Bottles is another unoriginal attempt to horrify the reader by invoking a soul-reclaiming restless spirit from the confines of a dark, defiled church's cemetery; this story succeeds rather well but possesses no real pizzazz.  Adolphe de Castro contributes The Electric Executioner, a rather enjoyable story that cannot but ultimately disappoint in regards to its highly improbably ending.<br />The revised work of two authors, Hazel Heald and Zealia Bishop, do merit a closer look.  Not only are their tales enjoyable and reasonably well-crafted, they do bear certain imprints of the master revisionist's singular hand.  Heald's Winged Death has nothing at all to do with the Cthulhu Mythos, instead offering the chronicles of a scientist's mad, wretched, and ultimately self-destructive plot to ingeniously kill a colleague whom he accuses of discrediting his work.  Heald's other tale, The Horror in the Museum, does attain a nice level of creepiness and a touch of cosmic horror.  The museum in question is a wax museum, and the strange owner suggests that his distinctly horrible wax figures are more than mere wax.  The protagonist, whose friendly interest in the singular artist turns to concern and fear at his increasingly mad utterings, agrees to spend a night alone in the dark museum, surrounded by horrible waxen figures and only two doors away from a creature the artist makes incredible claims about, eventually stating that it is a beast he has called down from Yuggoth itself, a beast through which the return of the Old Ones to Earth can be secured.  There is plenty of Cthulhian chanting and references to be found in this story, although it does not follow the letter of the original Mythos.  Zealia Bishop's tales also convey Mythos elements, yet her stories take the reader to Mexico and underneath the plains of Oklahoma, transplanting the abodes of ancient otherworldly creatures beneath the ground and reinterpreting the Mythos references in a Mexican-Spanish tradition.  The Curse of Yig invokes a snake-devil of Indian legendry who exacts a most bitter revenge on those who would harm his children among the snake population, one much more malign and vengeful than death itself.  The Oklahoma setting of The Curse of Yig is greatly expounded upon in the most significant tale of this collection, Bishop's The Mound.  An ancient mound is guarded by Indian spirits, and all white settlers who have dared explore the area have either returned no more or returned as raving madmen.  A scientist of the twentieth century cannot be expected to put stock in such tales, though, so our protagonist vows to explore the mound and finally uncover its secrets.  In a major discovery, he comes across a centuries-old account of a sixteenth century Spanish explorer who claims to have journeyed into an alien world underneath the mound, one where some well-known Lovecraftian otherworldy gods are spoken of, remembered, and worshipped.  It is rather fascinating to see a sort of conflated Mythos cosmology transplanted deep beneath the earth and to read of references to ancient gods such as Tulu that correlate with the Great Cthulhu.  Among the revisions in this collection, The Mound most clearly bears the influence of Lovecraft himself, and while one should by no means place it in the canon of his horrific literature, it does hold a power sure to hypnotize the seekers of Lovecraftian knowledge with its implications and parallel take on the Mythos itself.eenth century Spanish explorer who claims to have journeyed into an alien world underneath the mound, one where some well-known Lovecraftian otherworldy gods are spoken of, remembered, and worshipped.  It is rather fascinating to see a sort of conflated Mythos cosmology transplanted deep beneath the earth and to read of references to ancient gods such as Tulu that correlate with the Great Cthulhu.  Among the revisions in this collection, The Mound most clearly bears the influence of Lovecraft himself, and while one should by no means place it in the canon of his horrific literature, it does hold a power sure to hypnotize the seekers of Lovecraftian knowledge with its implications and parallel take on the Mythos itself.	2003-04-12
1167420:US	53016962	R1U6ZC0AWWYP1C	0807128066	239077026	They Fought Like Demons: Women Soldiers in the American Civil War (Conflicting Worlds Series)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Fascinating reading	This account of female combatants in the War Between the States is quite fascinating.  The notion of women fighting for the Rebs and Yanks was something I had never even thought about, so reading this book served as a significant learning experience for me.  Clearly, a great deal of research went into this monograph, and the authors do an excellent job of describing the significant limitations imposed upon the researcher into this topic.  Military records are incomplete, especially in the case of the Confederate Army, and some women served without ever being discovered at all.  In the case of many, there is no record of their real names.  The best substantive evidence comes from those whose actual gender was ascertained while being treated for serious wounds or who really let the cat out of the bag by giving birth.  It is quite amazing to me to learn that women in the late stage of pregnancy not only kept their gender a secret but actually fought fiercely in battle at the same time.  Women soldiers were also captured and imprisoned along with men, many of them refusing to divulge their secret despite the fact it might well win them release from the terrible conditions of prison camps.<br />Clearly, one must ask why women chose to fight.  The authors devote a lot of attention to this important question.  Many women took up arms in order to remain close to a loved one, be it a husband, fianc&eacute;, father, or brother; many fought for truly patriotic reasons, fuelled by the same motivations as men to defend their land and way of life.  Some fought for economic reasons, knowing they could earn much more money as a soldier than they ever could as females at home; some loved the independence and removal of Victorian restrictions that a soldier's life offered them.  Indeed, a small number of women had assumed male identities before the war began as a means of enjoying a better life for themselves, and some continued to live as men after the war ended for the same reasons.<br />The aspect of this story that I found most interesting was the reaction of male soldiers and the citizenry to the role women played in fighting.  To my surprise, contemporary men and women often celebrated these brave women who took up arms.  The revelation of discovery often came as a shock to the female soldier's comrades in arms, but by and large they were very supportive of those who were unmasked; even years after the war ended, they lent a lot of support to female soldiers who sought the pension they truly deserved for their service.  There was no shortage of newspaper stories about women soldiers during the war, and Victorian society was surprisingly supportive and proud of those women who were motivated to serve out of romantic or familial love or true patriotism.  These idealized motivations appealed strongly to the romantic notions of Victorian society.  Women who joined up for selfish, economic reasons, on the other hand, were often reviled.  The well-known lore and widespread respect for female soldiers continued up until the days of World War I, after which society and historians in particular either ignored, ridiculed, or cast aspersions on the internecine women warriors, and it is for this reason that the history of these unique soldiers was largely forgotten over the course of the twentieth century, only reemerging as a substantive topic in the final decade before the millennium.<br />There is much of interest in these pages: the means by which women soldiers managed to keep their real identities a secret, accounts of women in battle and the ranks several women attained as a result of their bravery and skill, stories of discovery and reenlistment(s), accounts of women captives in the worst of the prison camps, reports of children born on the front lines, information on the lives of several of these individuals in the years and decades following the war, etc.  Numerous anecdotes are as informative as they are extraordinary.  One of the slight issues I have with the monograph is the way in which information on each known female soldier was presented in piecemeal fashion-motivations, experiences, discovery, and the like are treated in separate chapters; I would have liked a continuous discussion of at least one prominent individual.  As things stand, it is difficult to achieve deep insight into any one such person's motivations, experiences, and thoughts as a whole.  This is a small criticism, however, because this book really is excellent.  Featuring voluminous footnotes and an impressive bibliography, They Fought Like Demons is a landmark achievement in women's history as well as the history of the War Between the States.ues I have with the monograph is the way in which information on each known female soldier was presented in piecemeal fashion-motivations, experiences, discovery, and the like are treated in separate chapters; I would have liked a continuous discussion of at least one prominent individual.  As things stand, it is difficult to achieve deep insight into any one such person's motivations, experiences, and thoughts as a whole.  This is a small criticism, however, because this book really is excellent.  Featuring voluminous footnotes and an impressive bibliography, They Fought Like Demons is a landmark achievement in women's history as well as the history of the War Between the States.	2003-04-07
1169906:US	53016962	R1FKPUF49QY5SF	0805775390	622421648	H.P. Lovecraft (Twayne's United States Authors Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A meritorious appraisal of Lovecraft's place in literature	Thanks to the urging of series editor Warren French, Twayne's United States Author Series includes this scholarly study of H.P. Lovecraft by Peter Cannon, and an excellent study of the neglected master of the macabre it is.  I would not classify this as an introduction to Lovecraft and his body of work, although some of the blurbs on the back of the book itself deem this a great introduction that speaks to both loyal fans and skeptics.  At least a rudimentary familiarity with Lovecraft's fiction, poems, and other writings is necessary in order to follow all of Cannon's arguments, and the Lovecraft neophyte will also find spoilers here for many of Lovecraft's most memorable works.  This should not be considered a biography of Lovecraft, although it does contain much that is biographical in nature.  This is as much literary criticism of an academic nature as it is biography, and Cannon manages to fuse the merits of both in an extremely instructive structural approach sure to enlighten even the most ardent of Lovecraft devotees.<br />Cannon's study begins with Lovecraft's childhood and early years, taking a look at the amateur journalism, travel pieces, and similarly obscure written pieces of those years.  He then provides the reader with a most illuminating study of Lovecraft's early adult writings of the late 1910s and early 1920s; here, he is particularly interested in six prominent themes which speak quite clearly to the influences, both literary as well as physical and environmental, that came together to form Lovecraft's oddly personal worldview: the past, the sea, below (as in subterranean secrets and horrors), beyond (as in cosmic horrors), dreamland (making special note of the story ideas Lovecraft gleaned from his dreams), and decadence.  By the mid-1920s, Lovecraft had come to see his beloved New England setting as the perfect environment for his horror stories, and this prominence on geography in the master horror writer's fiction leads Cannon to approach his mature output geographically.  Here he examines each story of the given period in terms of geography and a number of other factors, making great use of the voluminous collection of personal correspondence reflecting Lovecraft's own thoughts on his work.  The change evidenced in Lovecraft as well as his fiction from the move away from a stillborn marriage and unhappy abode in New York back home to the Providence he knew and loved is quite illuminating.  Cannon's treatment of Lovecraft's ideas and slowly evolving opinion of mankind in general was of great interest to me, and there is much to be learned from Cannon's short but illuminating examinations of Lovecraft's individual stories and poems.  Cannon points to a select number of the neglected revision stories Lovecraft basically ghost-wrote in \\"collaboration\\" with far less capable aspiring authors as holding great significance in the literary progression and legacy of the modern master of the macabre; Cannon's input here is invaluable because today's reader is hard pressed to determine just how strongly to associate Lovecraft with these revisions of other writers' amateurish fictional forays.<br />The book closes with a short look at Lovecraft's critical reputation, closing things out on a rather somber note.  As a great admirer of Lovecraft, it does bother me that, despite important strides in recent years, his place in literature is still far from secure as many scholarly critics basically ignore the man and belittle his admirers as \\"juvenile\\" hero-worshippers of some kind of false god of fiction.  Cannon's contribution to the Twayne's United States Authors Series is a step in the right direction, of course, but it does much to show just how long the journey to Lovecraft's critical acceptance by the academic community will be.  Featuring a number of illustrative footnotes and a very useful bibliography of primary and secondary sources, Cannon's short but piercing examination of Lovecraft's place in American literature is something all Lovecraft fans will want to own, enjoy, and learn from.terature is something all Lovecraft fans will want to own, enjoy, and learn from.	2003-04-05
1175150:US	53016962	RB1ILKIEV6A0I	0881847690	273436683	The Watchers Out of Time (Masters of Horror)	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Fifteen of August Derleth's less inspired Mythos tales	It is most unfortunate and wrong in more ways than one that this collection of stories is passed off as the work of H.P. Lovecraft. All of these stories were written by August Derleth, who was inspired by various little notes Lovecraft left behind, but the only indication of the true ownership of the tales comes in the list of sources from which these stories were assembled, a section quite easy to overlook by the general reader. Any Lovecraft disciple must have mixed feelings about August Derleth. His contribution to the Lovecraft legacy is undeniably significant; in the years after Lovecraft's death, Derleth almost single-handedly kept his memory alive, forming historic Arkham House to publish the master's stories himself. Derleth's contribution is much more controversial when it comes to extending the Cthulhu legacy, however, for his conception of the Mythos is significantly different from that of Lovecraft; Derleth tended to see things in black and white, good vs. evil. This bifurcation of the Mythos legacy is in sharp contrast to Lovecraft's original vision of a world where good and evil do not exist per se. Reading Derleth's Mythos stories poses a danger of the reader conflating Derleth's ideas and conceptions with those of Lovecraft, and I for one strive to keep the original legacy intact in my mind. This danger is exacerbated by Derleth's frequent citation of events and characters from Lovecraft's original writings. Dunwich and Innsmouth serve as frequent settings for these stories; familiar names such as Wilbur Whateley and the Whateley clan, Obed Marsh and his batrachian (which seems to be Derleth's favorite word) descendants are encountered at every turn; and all manner of dark tomes are referred to, those introduced by members of the Lovecraft Circle as well as others Derleth invents himself.<br />August Derleth was a perfectly competent writer capable of producing an impressive story every now and then. For the most part, however, his work is overly formulaic and repetitive, and, while he tries very hard to write the kind of stories Lovecraft wrote, his stories just don't captivate the reader or come alive with the type of overwhelming, cosmic menace that seemed to live in the very words Lovecraft put to paper. The fifteen stories collected here are remarkably similar in plot and presentation, and that helps make this a somewhat tedious read at times; sometimes the only real spark of interest generated in my mind was a curiosity to see just how commonplace a spin a given story would place on Lovecraft's otherworldly cosmology. When Derleth did dare to color outside the lines, his attempts come off rather strangely and almost comically. A case in point is The Dark Brotherhood, a tale in which a band of strange men bearing an incredibly strong resemblance to Edgar Allan Poe introduce a character clearly based on Lovecraft himself to a vision of another world. Having these alien creatures adopt the image of Poe makes the story memorable to the reader at the expense of the story's effectiveness.<br />You really won't find anything here that did not originate with Lovecraft; Derleth seems to have a literary mold in which he mixes Mythos beings and characters in random fashion from one story to the next. As I say, though, Derleth is a competent writer, so few of these stories are painfully hard to read; judged outside of the context of Lovecraft, they are effective albeit repetitive. As a Lovecraft fan, I enjoy Derleth's stories (and I might note that his best are to be found not here but in The Mask of Cthulhu and The Trail of Cthulhu), but they are just so lifeless that the memory of them begins to fade as soon as I finish them. I believe there is material here capable of entertaining both the Lovecraft devotee as well as the general horror fan. The important thing to keep in mind, though, is that these stories really should not be attributed in any way to Lovecraft, no matter what the book cover might want you to believe.elieve.	2003-03-31
1179028:US	53016962	R2PA5GC6E24K06	0679738908	514368968	A Gathering of Old Men	Books	5	51	52	N	N	A brilliant, moving story of race relations and humanity	A Gathering of Old Men, set in 1970s Louisiana, is one of the richest and most powerful novels about race relations written in the last few decades.  It's really a simple story that could be told fairly quickly, but the event upon which the novel is based is in some ways peripheral to the story.  The whole point of the novel is to pry deeply into the hearts and minds of men, both black and white, reveal the pains and struggles that each of them has either dealt out or dealt with, and to reveal the poignant humanity in a group of brave old men who have essentially counted for nothing in their own minds and are determined to take advantage of one last opportunity to stand up for themselves, their friends and families, and their ancestors.<br />Beau Boutan is dead, lying out in the weeds beside his shotgun, and everyone knows who killed him.  He was shot in Mathu's yard, and Mathu is the only black man on the place that has ever stood up for himself against the Boutans.  By the time Sheriff Mapes arrives on the scene, the situation is far from simple, though.  Eighteen old black men are assembled in the yard, each with a shotgun and an empty shell of the type that cut Beau down, and each one of them says he killed Beau.  Candy is there, the white lady half-raised by old Mathu after her parents were killed, and she is determined to defend Mathu and all of the blacks on her land the way her parents and grandparents defended them in the past.  She says she killed Beau and will confess the crime in court.  Mapes has a problem on his hands.  Fix Boutan, the dead man's father, is sure to come down to the quarters seeking revenge, and there is bound to be a lynching if Mapes can't get everything straightened out before Fix has time to get there.  All the old black men gathered in the yard are there because of Fix.  Each one of them has lived a long time without ever really standing up for himself; they've all taken abuse quietly, and they have seen their women and children abused right in front of their eyes for what seems like forever.  Now, they see they have a last chance to stand up for themselves against Fix and his cruel gang.  They have come for a fight, and no one is going to talk them out of it.<br />Gaines gives us multiple points of view in this novel.  Each chapter is related in first person by one of the characters, and the results are incredibly revealing.  We learn a great deal about these men, the lives they have led, and their own feelings about those lives.  It's really quite intense and revealing.  This is not a story of racial hatred, however, despite the fact that a number of white characters have led hateful lives.  Twenty years earlier, Fix Boutan would have been revenged his boy's murder without even thinking about it, and this is the Fix Boutan the old black men expect and indeed hope to take their stand against.  Times are changing, though, and the younger generation, men such as Beau's brother Gil, don't think the same way that the older generations do.  Thus, there is as much hope as anguish in this novel.  To some degree, not a lot happens in terms of action over the course of the story, so some may find the reading a little long and boring, but even those who don't fully appreciate the human dimensions of the story will be rewarded by the path the final chapters take and the action that does take place toward the end.  I have to say that Ernest J. Gaines proves himself to be an incredible writer, able to communicate thoughts, feelings, and history itself in a manner most writers can never hope to match.  A Gathering of Old Men isn't overly complex or lengthy, so there is no reason why anyone should deny himself or herself the pleasure of enjoying and learning from this true landmark of a novel.abused right in front of their eyes for what seems like forever.  Now, they see they have a last chance to stand up for themselves against Fix and his cruel gang.  They have come for a fight, and no one is going to talk them out of it.  <br />Gaines gives us multiple points of view in this novel.  Each chapter is related in first person by one of the characters, and the results are incredibly revealing.  We learn a great deal about these men, the lives they have led, and their own feelings about those lives.  It's really quite intense and revealing.  This is not a story of racial hatred, however, despite the fact that a number of white characters have led hateful lives.  Twenty years earlier, Fix Boutan would have been revenged his boy's murder without even thinking about it, and this is the Fix Boutan the old black men expect and indeed hope to take their stand against.  Times are changing, though, and the younger generation, men such as Beau's brother Gil, don't think the same way that the older generations do.  Thus, there is as much hope as anguish in this novel.  To some degree, not a lot happens in terms of action over the course of the story, so some may find the reading a little long and boring, but even those who don't fully appreciate the human dimensions of the story will be rewarded by the path the final chapters take and the action that does take place toward the end.  I have to say that Ernest J. Gaines proves himself to be an incredible writer, able to communicate thoughts, feelings, and history itself in a manner most writers can never hope to match.  A Gathering of Old Men isn't overly complex or lengthy, so there is no reason why anyone should deny himself or herself the pleasure of enjoying and learning from this true landmark of a novel.	2003-03-28
1181310:US	53016962	R1D6HYJFDQOZPQ	0385406703	171845078	Johnny and the Bomb Uk	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best book in Pratchett's Johnny Maxwell series	In my opinion, Johnny and the Bomb is the best book in Terry Pratchett's Johnny Maxwell trilogy.  While classified as juvenile fiction, this book bears the strongest resemblance of the three to Pratchett's Discworld ideas and characterizations, containing much more social commentary, satire, and sidesplitting comedy than Only You Can Save Mankind and Johnny and the Dead.  For such a normal twelve-year-old kid, Johnny Maxwell has some amazing adventures.  This time around, he becomes a time traveler.  Old Mrs. Tachyon, whom we have met briefly earlier in the series, is now revealed to be something more than a crazy bag lady; she is a time-traveling crazy bag lady.  When she turns up injured, Johnny and his friends summon an ambulance for her and take her trolley cart (complete with her ornery cat Guilty) to Johnny's garage for safe keeping.  Johnny notices that some of her bags seem to move of their own accord at times, and this discovery quickly leads to an episode of quite unexpected time travel.  Eventually, the gang (Johnny, Wobbler, Bigmac, Yo-less, and Kirsty) go back in time to 1941, the very day preceding an unexpected and accidental bombing of one section of town by German bombers.  They try to be careful not to mess the future up, but Bigmac finds himself in trouble with the police, Wobbler is assailed by a brat who keeps calling him a spy, and somehow the future gets mucked up a little bit in the process.  Finding their way back home to the future is a difficult task; arriving back home without Wobbler and having to figure out a way to go back and retrieve him is even harder, especially since it involves convincing the 1941 authorities that the town is going to be bombed at a specific time.<br />The characters of Johnny's remarkable friends are fleshed out in this novel to a much greater extent than they were in the previous two novels.  Yo-less, a black kid, is less than pleased to find himself dubbed Sambo by the folks living in 1941, and the extremely forceful young Kirsten is almost as upset about being treated like a \\"little lady.\\"  Johnny, for his part, often finds himself putting his sanity at risk by contemplating the ways and whims of time travel.  I found this book to be hilarious; the time travel part of the tale is a little wild and crazy, but hypotheses about the different legs of the Trousers of Time is vintage Pratchett material.  Old Mrs. Tachyon is a wonderful character, seemingly rather insane based on her thought processes and tendency to spout gibberish all the time, she is perhaps more sane than anyone else around her; time traveling is enough to warp anyone's mind, Johnny reasons.  I was rather delighted to hear Mrs. Tachyon mumble the words \\"Millennium hand and shrimp\\" at one point because these are the very same words often spoken by Foul Ole Ron on the Discworld.  This adventure really is the type of thing you might expect to find on Pratchett's famous planetary creation, and I daresay any Discworld fan should enjoy this book immensely.  I find myself wishing for more Johnny Maxwell stories; I feel as if I know these characters now, and they are a fascinating, increasingly funny bunch of guys to hang around with.orceful young Kirsten is almost as upset about being treated like a \\"little lady.\\"  Johnny, for his part, often finds himself putting his sanity at risk by contemplating the ways and whims of time travel.  I found this book to be hilarious; the time travel part of the tale is a little wild and crazy, but hypotheses about the different legs of the Trousers of Time is vintage Pratchett material.  Old Mrs. Tachyon is a wonderful character, seemingly rather insane based on her thought processes and tendency to spout gibberish all the time, she is perhaps more sane than anyone else around her; time traveling is enough to warp anyone's mind, Johnny reasons.  I was rather delighted to hear Mrs. Tachyon mumble the words \\"Millennium hand and shrimp\\" at one point because these are the very same words often spoken by Foul Ole Ron on the Discworld.  This adventure really is the type of thing you might expect to find on Pratchett's famous planetary creation, and I daresay any Discworld fan should enjoy this book immensely.  I find myself wishing for more Johnny Maxwell stories; I feel as if I know these characters now, and they are a fascinating, increasingly funny bunch of guys to hang around with.	2003-03-25
1184237:US	53016962	ROE7PB8BC42B4	0552527408	130118063	Johnny and the Dead	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You don't really live until you're dead	Johnny Maxwell is just a normal twelve-year old kid, or at least he tries to be. Things just seem to happen to him that don't happen to anyone else - aliens inside a computer game surrender to him and name him their Chosen One, for example (as told in the first book of this series). Compared to that adventure, seeing dead people almost seems rather prosaic. The Trying Times Johnny has been living in have advanced past his parents' shouting and Being Sensible About Things to Phase 3, which sees him now living with his grandfather. He often takes a short cut to school through a local cemetery, and it is there that he meets the Alderman, the long dead and buried Alderman. His friends Yo-less, Bigmac, and Wobbler can't see dead people the way Johnny suddenly can, but events soon convince them that Johnny isn't just fooling around with them. Johnny meets all of the dead people in the cemetery, all of whom are quite put out when they learn that their cemetery, a place which the rules of being dead say they cannot leave, has been sold by the city (for only five pence) to a corporation planning on building office buildings there. Since Johnny is the only human who can see them (and why Johnny can see them is rather a mystery, although the Alderman thinks it is because he is too lazy not to see them), the dead look to him to save their eternal resting place. Stopping a big corporation from doing something the city has granted them the legal right to do is no easy task, especially for a twelve-year-old boy and his friends, but Johnny is wonderfully resourceful.<br />The ending of this book didn't have much spark to it, but overall Johnny and the Dead is an even better read than the first Johnny Maxwell novel Only You Can Save Mankind. It also rings quite distinctly at times of the type of humor showcased by the author in his Discworld novels. There is one bit early on that is just hilarious. Wobbler puts the idea in Johnny's head that dead people basically lurch around like the zombie types in Michael Jackson's Thriller video, and this indirectly leads to the Alderman trying to moonwalk in the cemetery. The dead people as a whole put a lot of life into this book, oddly enough. Among the fascinating, entertaining dead folks we meet are an ardent suffragette, an inventor who is quite proficient at manipulating electronic equipment, a brilliant man named Einstein - Solomon Einstein the taxidermist, and a dyed-in-the-wool Marxist who is quite disappointed at the way things have gone in the world since his death. The vibrant personalities of the dead men and women more often than not clash in a number of very funny ways as they all try to cope with modern life or the lack of it.<br />This book does stand up fairly well on its own, but the characterization of Johnny and his friends is not detailed enough for you to really get to know them without having read Only You Can Save Mankind already. This is considered juvenile fiction, but as with everything Terry Pratchett writes, men and women of all ages, providing they have at least a nascent sense of humor, will find much to enjoy and laugh about in these pages.the zombie types in Michael Jackson's Thriller video, and this indirectly leads to the Alderman trying to moonwalk in the cemetery. The dead people as a whole put a lot of life into this book, oddly enough. Among the fascinating, entertaining dead folks we meet are an ardent suffragette, an inventor who is quite proficient at manipulating electronic equipment, a brilliant man named Einstein - Solomon Einstein the taxidermist, and a dyed-in-the-wool Marxist who is quite disappointed at the way things have gone in the world since his death. The vibrant personalities of the dead men and women more often than not clash in a number of very funny ways as they all try to cope with modern life or the lack of it. <br />This book does stand up fairly well on its own, but the characterization of Johnny and his friends is not detailed enough for you to really get to know them without having read Only You Can Save Mankind already. This is considered juvenile fiction, but as with everything Terry Pratchett writes, men and women of all ages, providing they have at least a nascent sense of humor, will find much to enjoy and laugh about in these pages.	2003-03-23
1185978:US	53016962	R2R1F05FZMALPP	0552139262	588939083	Only You Can Save Mankind	Books	5	24	25	N	N	It's just a game--isn't it?	Only You Can Save Mankind is the first book in Terry Pratchett's Johnny Maxwell trilogy.  While this is considered juvenile or young adult fiction, it's a lot of fun for adults as well.  It seems a little strange to journey with Terry Pratchett to a place other than the Discworld, but this little jaunt is quite enjoyable.  Johnny Maxwell is a rather typical twelve year old boy; he's not smart or popular or rich, and he tends to prefer operating below the radar of those around him.  He is living in Trying Times, basically having to take care of himself for the most part while his parents argue and come ever closer to splitting up.  Like any kid, he enjoys a good computer game every now and then, and his friend Wobbler, born to be a hacker, supplies him with just about any illegally pirated game he could want.  As earth's last remaining fighter, he has destroyed all but the last big alien ship in the game Only You Can Save Mankind when a message suddenly appears on the screen: We wish to talk.  Thus begins a journey that takes him inside the game as the Chosen One, the human who will lead the alien ScreeWee race back to safety beyond The Boundary.  The reptilian captain of the ScreeWee is tired of fighting; the human fighters appear out of nowhere, kill and destroy ships in her fleet, and keep coming back no matter how many times they are killed.  She has seen what happened to the Space Invaders and would rather surrender than die fighting.<br />You don't have to remember playing Space Invaders to enjoy this book, but it does make the story a little more enjoyable.  As always with Pratchett, the characters are well-developed and quite remarkable.  I really liked Wobbler, the future hacker who designed a game of his own called Journey to Alpha Centauri to be played in real time, meaning all the thousands of years it would take to reach Alpha Centauri is how many years the game would take you to actually finish it.  Beyond the comedy present in this story, there is also a message.  The backdrop of the earth-based events of the book is the Persian Gulf War, and the juxtaposition of this war that is real but seems like a game with the computer game that becomes real for Johnny Maxwell conveys a message about violence and one's attitude toward it.  It is not an overbearing theme, but it is there to some degree, helping make this short novel much more than just a juvenile read intended to entertain the reader and nothing else.  This is a short book that never falters from beginning to end, and it houses much more in its pages than might be apparent at first glance.  It is not as complicated or brilliant as the Discworld novels, but it is a fun read nonetheless, sure to entertain Pratchett fans while capturing the attention and interest of young readers.o a message.  The backdrop of the earth-based events of the book is the Persian Gulf War, and the juxtaposition of this war that is real but seems like a game with the computer game that becomes real for Johnny Maxwell conveys a message about violence and one's attitude toward it.  It is not an overbearing theme, but it is there to some degree, helping make this short novel much more than just a juvenile read intended to entertain the reader and nothing else.  This is a short book that never falters from beginning to end, and it houses much more in its pages than might be apparent at first glance.  It is not as complicated or brilliant as the Discworld novels, but it is a fun read nonetheless, sure to entertain Pratchett fans while capturing the attention and interest of young readers.	2003-03-21
1189053:US	53016962	R235UC0XYICFPI	0575601558	490800220	THE UNADULTERATED CAT	Books	5	185	187	N	N	Hilarious insight into cat behavior	Terry Pratchett is, as far as I'm concerned, the funniest writer to ever live, and while The Unadulterated Cat flies far afield of the mythical Discworld universe, it is simply hilarious.  You don't have to be a cat lover to enjoy it, but only the cat lover can appreciate the strong current of truth that runs throughout this wildly comical look at the world of our feline friends.  The Campaign For Real Cats, Pratchett tells us, wants to celebrate the dwindling number of Real Cats in the world by helping people identify Real Cats among their modern, Unreal Cat compatriots.  To this end, Pratchett goes about describing how to spot a Real Cat in any of its several variations, defines eleven types of cats such as your classic farm cat, boot-faced cat (as Real as they come), arch-villain's cat (always Unreal), and cartoon cats.  He offers useful tips on naming cats, describes common illnesses such as impatient feet, gives tips on feeding and disciplining cats, describes common cat games, indulges in the theory of the Schrodinger, time-traveling cat, looks at the cat in history, and offers other insightful, highly comical ideas and theories on cat-ness in general.  All of these subjects are examined, of course, from the point of the view of the cat.  By far the funniest and most insightful section is devoted to the games cats play; the book's worth acquiring for this one section alone.<br />I should point out the fact that this is in no way a useful guide for current or potential cat-owners; this is rollicking comedy from first page to last.  Given this point, there are still a number of astute observations that will make cat lovers smile and perhaps even guffaw, for the behaviors Pratchett expounds upon are quite familiar to those sharing their lives with feline friends.  Pratchett really captures the cat personality remarkably well at times; for example, he expounds upon the common shifty look cats wear by describing one particular cat as breathing in a manner that suggests it is stealing air with every breath it takes.  This book is so insightful and screamingly funny that all Pratchett fans will surely get a big kick out of it.  The numerous cartoons of Gray Jolliffe that fill this little book are also excellent, simple yet evocative.  The Unadulterated Cat is a short read, mind you, requiring much less than an hour's effort, but it is so good that upon finishing it, you are quite likely to turn all the way back to the beginning and start again or, at the very least, go back to the sections you enjoyed the most and read them once more.ests it is stealing air with every breath it takes.  This book is so insightful and screamingly funny that all Pratchett fans will surely get a big kick out of it.  The numerous cartoons of Gray Jolliffe that fill this little book are also excellent, simple yet evocative.  The Unadulterated Cat is a short read, mind you, requiring much less than an hour's effort, but it is so good that upon finishing it, you are quite likely to turn all the way back to the beginning and start again or, at the very least, go back to the sections you enjoyed the most and read them once more.	2003-03-18
1190000:US	53016962	R2IZVOHZTF40B7	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Uniquely interesting	Waiting For Godot is certainly an interesting and unique drama.  The sparse presentation and sense of hopelessness underlying this tragicomedy appeals to the existentialist in me, but I was not moved or stimulated enough to grant this work five stars.  I daresay that the effect of Waiting For Godot is much more impactful and effective when performed on stage than it is when read, particularly in terms of the lyrical dialogue that often comes to the fore.  To a large degree, this is a play about nothingness (which is quite different from a play about nothing), so I find it rather strange that it is hailed as one of the greatest dramas of the 20th century.  This kind of thing usually suits my tastes but few others'.  There's no fantabulous show designed to bedazzle the ideas of the spectator, just a country road and a tree set during the evening hours.  The cast numbers five individuals: the two unfortunates Estragon and Vladimir, Pozzo and his \\"slave\\" Lucky, and a little boy (possibly, in the context of the play, two little boys who may or may not look exactly alike).  Estragon and Vladimir spend their time examining their hats, worrying with their boots, thinking about separating or just hanging themselves to be done with it all, and of course waiting for Godot.  I don't want to ruin this for anyone, but you never meet or find out if this mysterious Godot even exists.  Some critical thinkers (along with a few of your basic pseudo-intellectual crackpots) seem compelled to interpret Godot as a God-figure, but I see no reason to make that speculative leap.<br />Estragon and Godot really have no sense of who, where, and when they are, as becomes clear in their interactions with the wealthy passerby Pozzo and Lucky, his personal servant who is as much a trained mule as he is a man.  Lucky can \\"think,\\" though, and you'd better grab a seat and hold on when he gets started.  After the first night comes, Estragon and Vladimir return to the same spot to once again wait on Godot, and once again Pozzo, now suddenly blind, and Lucky return.  No one seems to remember anything much about the others or of the previous day with the exception of Vladimir, and the interaction between the four major characters certainly introduces some comedy, albeit of a tragic, resigned sort.  The comedy actually makes the drama more tragic, so its classification as a tragicomedy in two acts is pretty apt.  I don't see a lot of hope revealed here, although others seem to.  Life is simply meaningless is the message I get most clearly out of it, so the only hope I perceive comes in the form of waiting for something that may or may not happen while doing nothing yourself to make anything happen.  We are all waiting for something, I suppose, but such a vivid portrayal of the utter futility of such behavior strikes me as more depressing than inspiring.  This drama really deserves multiple reads in order for its true essence to work its way closer to the surface; it may well be, I freely admit, that I have yet to spot whatever essence the play intends to reveal to me.  I won't deny Waiting For Godot is a landmark drama, and I fear this review has done it very little justice, but I consider the act of writing it a victory of sorts over the useless practice of waiting for Godot to come and explain everything to me and take care of all my questions and troubles.odot, and once again Pozzo, now suddenly blind, and Lucky return.  No one seems to remember anything much about the others or of the previous day with the exception of Vladimir, and the interaction between the four major characters certainly introduces some comedy, albeit of a tragic, resigned sort.  The comedy actually makes the drama more tragic, so its classification as a tragicomedy in two acts is pretty apt.  I don't see a lot of hope revealed here, although others seem to.  Life is simply meaningless is the message I get most clearly out of it, so the only hope I perceive comes in the form of waiting for something that may or may not happen while doing nothing yourself to make anything happen.  We are all waiting for something, I suppose, but such a vivid portrayal of the utter futility of such behavior strikes me as more depressing than inspiring.  This drama really deserves multiple reads in order for its true essence to work its way closer to the surface; it may well be, I freely admit, that I have yet to spot whatever essence the play intends to reveal to me.  I won't deny Waiting For Godot is a landmark drama, and I fear this review has done it very little justice, but I consider the act of writing it a victory of sorts over the useless practice of waiting for Godot to come and explain everything to me and take care of all my questions and troubles.	2003-03-18
1192415:US	53016962	R1D8L8QODVWOBD	0812500709	674950171	The Night of the Ripper	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Too superficial and sensational to be effective	Working from the facts of the Whitechapel murders, Robert Bloch takes on Jack the Ripper in The Night of the Ripper and proposes a novel, logical, yet highly imaginative solution to the crimes.  This is pure fiction, so one should not think that Bloch proposes a reasonable theory behind the Ripper murders and the identity of Saucy Jack.  A number of entirely fictitious characters find themselves at the heart of this tale of murder.  Mark Robinson, a young American doctor working at London Hospital, becomes the centerpiece of the action, working in conjunction with Inspector Abberline to find a solution to the horrific crimes sending London into fits of panic.  Eva Sloane, a young nurse at the hospital, catches his eye early on and becomes the object of his unrequited affections and concern.  With several of the doctors at the hospital initially considered suspects of a sort, particularly the eccentric Dr. Hume who seems to enjoy his surgical work just a little too much, Robinson adopts the role of Eva's protector, but this aspect of the story could have been much better incorporated into the larger picture of the murders.  While this novel failed to win me over completely, I must say that the ending, highly imaginative as it is, does provide a surprise or two and in its way manages to explain some of the discrepancies in the Ripper evidence, particularly that surrounding the most brutal slaughter of Mary Jane Kelly.  One interesting touch that I did like was Bloch's means of introducing each chapter; working his way through history, he gives short descriptions of some of mankind's most brutal and horrifying activities.<br />It may well be that someone unfamiliar with the details of the Ripper murders would enjoy this novel more than I did.  Being an armchair Ripperologist myself, the true facts of the actual murders in this novel fail to shock or horrify me; rather, I tend to dwell on the facts that Bloch left out and the general incompleteness of the facts he chose to play with.  Bloch also chose to mention all manner of past theories over the course of the novel without attempting to explain the real significance (or impossibility) of some of them.  Also, I can't say I care for the insertion of such well-known characters as Arthur Conan Doyle, Oscar Wilde, George Bernard Shaw, and John Merrick (the Elephant Man) into the narrative.  These characters serve no purpose at all in this novel beyond making it more sensational; each of them makes a brief, wholly unimportant appearance and is then forgotten.  As talented a writer as Bloch was, I can't imagine why he would resort to such needless sensationalism.  The main problem I have with the novel is in fact the shallowness of all the characters.  These characters never come alive; for the most part, we merely watch them come and go like puppets controlled by the author.  The presentation of such historical individuals as Inspector Abberline, Sir William Gull, and Sir Charles Warren is superficial and more misleading than insightful.  Abberline remains quite inscrutable, although Bloch chooses to repeat ad nauseum the conditions of the poor man's troublesome stomach.<br />Only a certain breed of author would attempt a fictionalized explication of Jack the Ripper's crimes.  Bloch was certainly one of that rare breed, but I believe his fictional engine was not clicking on all cylinders as he wrote The Night of the Ripper.  His determination to bring in some of the actual facts of the murders, give lip service to all manner of Ripper theories, and insert a number of famous men having little or no connection to the crimes seemed to distract him from the more important issue of character development; that deficiency makes this novel a superficial read that fails to impress this reader.to play with.  Bloch also chose to mention all manner of past theories over the course of the novel without attempting to explain the real significance (or impossibility) of some of them.  Also, I can't say I care for the insertion of such well-known characters as Arthur Conan Doyle, Oscar Wilde, George Bernard Shaw, and John Merrick (the Elephant Man) into the narrative.  These characters serve no purpose at all in this novel beyond making it more sensational; each of them makes a brief, wholly unimportant appearance and is then forgotten.  As talented a writer as Bloch was, I can't imagine why he would resort to such needless sensationalism.  The main problem I have with the novel is in fact the shallowness of all the characters.  These characters never come alive; for the most part, we merely watch them come and go like puppets controlled by the author.  The presentation of such historical individuals as Inspector Abberline, Sir William Gull, and Sir Charles Warren is superficial and more misleading than insightful.  Abberline remains quite inscrutable, although Bloch chooses to repeat ad nauseum the conditions of the poor man's troublesome stomach.  <br />Only a certain breed of author would attempt a fictionalized explication of Jack the Ripper's crimes.  Bloch was certainly one of that rare breed, but I believe his fictional engine was not clicking on all cylinders as he wrote The Night of the Ripper.  His determination to bring in some of the actual facts of the murders, give lip service to all manner of Ripper theories, and insert a number of famous men having little or no connection to the crimes seemed to distract him from the more important issue of character development; that deficiency makes this novel a superficial read that fails to impress this reader.	2003-03-15
1197516:US	53016962	R27COYKLTVQ7P7	0140434135	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	139	143	N	N	Absolutely delightful	I approached this book somewhat warily, knowing that Northanger Abbey was to some degree a satirical take on the immense popularity of Gothic romances such as Ann Radcliffe's The Mysteries of Udolpho, a book I dearly love.  Happily, Austen's means of poking fun at Gothic horror literature are far from mean-spirited and, as a matter of fact, can be delightfully humorous indeed.  Her heroine, Catherine Morland, is by no means the type of heroine to be found in the giant tomes of Radcliffe and her indulgent imitators, as Austen tells her reading audience directly from the very start.  \\"Almost attractive\\" on a good day, this unintellectual tomboy has reached her fifteenth year without inspiring a young man's fancy, nor would she be able to delight him with musical skill or even draw his profile in her secret notebooks if she had.  Having encountered no strangers who would prove to be a lord or prince in disguise, her heroic ambitions seem stymied at best until fate steps in and grants her a stay of several weeks in the delightful town of Bath.  Making her transition from nave girl to equally nave young lady, Catherine almost immediately falls quite in love with young Henry Tilney, while at the same time she becomes intimate friends with an older young lady named Isabella, whose inconstancy as both friend and intended beloved of Catherine's own brother eventually brings her much pain.  To her intense delight, however, Catherine is invited by General Tilney, Henry's father, to spend some few weeks in his home, Northanger Abbey.  Her joy at spending such private time in the company of her beloved and new best friend Eleanor Tilney is immense, but equally exciting to her is the chance to spend time in a mysterious former abbey of the sort she has read so much about.  Such Gothic romances as Udolpho have been the source of her recent heroic training, and she is wildly desirous and fully expectant of discovering hidden passages, dark secrets, frightening circumstances, and possibly even incalcitrant perfidy in the halls of her beloved's family home.  Her overactive imagination runs wild in Northanger Abbey, bringing her a fair share of embarrassment, but the very sweet and tender sensibilities that fuel her fire for Gothic mystery make her all the more endearing to me.  Catherine is remarkably innocent, and as such she is absolutely delightful in my eyes.<br />Much of the story does fit in with your typical Gothic novel, but the frightening and dismaying things Catherine eventually discovers are of a far from supernatural sort.  Ever so gradually, a true monster slowly coalesces from the pages of this remarkable novel.  I, like young Catherine, was somewhat overenthusiastic concerning the Gothic qualities of this adventure I feel I shared with her, and the truly despicable thoughts and actions of the book's villain did not immediately strike me as forcefully as they should have; the afterword by Elizabeth Hardwick included in my Signet Classic copy of the book, however, served to make me fully comprehend its import.  Greed, selfishness, pride-these are the horrors of Northanger Abbey, and it does deeply hurt a reader of romantic sensitivity to stand idly by, unable to aid and assist a sweet young lady such as Catherine in her time of despair and emotional suffering.<br />Lovers of Gothic horror or literature in general will surely find nothing but delight in the pages of Northanger Abbey.  Austen's critique of Gothic literature is quite subdued, and I actually find immense pleasure in the overindulgence the author sometimes employs in her attempts to satirize it.  Written by Austen at a tender age (though not published until the year following her death), Northanger Abbey features incredibly human, complex characters full of wit and charm.  The hidden motives of seemingly delightful friends is brought to light, teaching young Catherine as well as the reader a painful lesson in real life, yet romance stands at the ready to right thewrongs of self-interest, deception, and greed.  I absolutely adore this novel and everything about it.e wrongs of self-interest, deception, and greed.  I absolutely adore this novel and everything about it.	2003-03-12
1202281:US	53016962	R32HP0BLWVKSU2	0688051766	215468813	The Black Hope Horror: The True Story of a Haunting	Books	3	26	29	N	N	A tale of high strangeness indeed	There's nothing like a good ghost story, especially when it's a true one, but I must say that The Black Hope Horror is a rather unusual tale full of untraditional, poltergeist-type events.  Ben and Jean Williams were the first couple to move into the new Section 8 subdevelopment, but the home of their dreams soon became the home of their darkest nightmares.  At first, strangeness came in the form of material things: snakes, many of them poisonous, all over the place (not necessarily unusual), freak rainstorms leaving behind large numbers of huge worms, invasions of giant ants oblivious to hot water cycles of dishwashers, toilets which flushed themselves at all hours of the day and night.  Members of the family also often had the feeling they were being watched by someone or something, footsteps began to haunt the halls, and the older and younger members of the family changed significantly in terms of their personalities.  Cold spots manifested themselves quite often, and electrical malfunctions of an inexplicable sort began happening.  One night, Ben encountered two black forms whose icy, enveloping touch sent him to the hospital with something akin to an asthma attack.  Similar events influenced the lives of neighbors as the new community began to grow, although no one communicated their experiences with one another until two decomposed bodies were found buried beneath one neighbor's backyard, thus confirming the Williams' fears about the sinkholes in their own property.  The family is shocked to learn that the development was constructed above an old black cemetery.<br />Assuming this story is true (and handfuls of families don't just leave homes and their investments behind and let their properties be foreclosed upon without good reasons), it is quite an interesting, somewhat nontraditional haunting.  Two things about this book pose a small problem in my mind, though.  First and foremost is the style of the narrative.  This is basically the Williams' story as told to John Bruce Shoemaker, and he writes of these events as if he were there recording everything that happened along the way.  Memories, especially negative ones such as these, become distorted rather quickly, and I find the plethora of direct quotations from multiple family members, including some this author never met, somewhat laughable.  I think the story would be more believable if it was simply described in standard, objective narrative form.  Secondly, there is far too much emphasis placed on peripheral events; I refer especially to the very unusual number of emotional problems, sicknesses, and deaths that affected the Williams' while they lived in the house.  I just think too many things are blamed on the \\"haunting.\\"  The fact that a couple visits the house a time or two just doesn't seem to explain the breakup of marriages.  While it is quite remarkable to see six close family members die in a period of only three years or so, it does not mean the \\"things\\" were causing all of the problems.  After all, Jean and Ben never got sick or divorced and they lived in the house for several years.<br />This is a vivid, sometimes fascinating tale of undeniably bizarre events; there aren't as many goose pimple sections as you might find in a more traditional haunting account, but clearly something of a very unusual nature took place on this area of land that was once Black Hope Cemetery.  I don't think this book will change anyone's opinion about ghosts or unduly frighten anyone, but certainly there are elements here of high strangeness that make for a compelling read.  Even if you set aside the whole haunting premise, what you have left is a pretty powerful human interest story.d to John Bruce Shoemaker, and he writes of these events as if he were there recording everything that happened along the way.  Memories, especially negative ones such as these, become distorted rather quickly, and I find the plethora of direct quotations from multiple family members, including some this author never met, somewhat laughable.  I think the story would be more believable if it was simply described in standard, objective narrative form.  Secondly, there is far too much emphasis placed on peripheral events; I refer especially to the very unusual number of emotional problems, sicknesses, and deaths that affected the Williams' while they lived in the house.  I just think too many things are blamed on the \\"haunting.\\"  The fact that a couple visits the house a time or two just doesn't seem to explain the breakup of marriages.  While it is quite remarkable to see six close family members die in a period of only three years or so, it does not mean the \\"things\\" were causing all of the problems.  After all, Jean and Ben never got sick or divorced and they lived in the house for several years.  <br />This is a vivid, sometimes fascinating tale of undeniably bizarre events; there aren't as many goose pimple sections as you might find in a more traditional haunting account, but clearly something of a very unusual nature took place on this area of land that was once Black Hope Cemetery.  I don't think this book will change anyone's opinion about ghosts or unduly frighten anyone, but certainly there are elements here of high strangeness that make for a compelling read.  Even if you set aside the whole haunting premise, what you have left is a pretty powerful human interest story.	2003-03-08
1206118:US	53016962	RLCQEVQJYD0BF	B000067DTW	714014134	The Custom of the Sea	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A shocking tale of shipwreck and the means of survival	The Custom of the Sea is a rather macabre yet fascinating tale of human survival and legal chicanery.  One tends to think of desperate acts of cannibalism as the stuff of horror movies, but enough shipwrecked men resorted to this most desperate of means for it to become an unspoken law of sailors.  This is an account of the doomed yacht Mignonette which went down in 1884 in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, far from land as well as the trade lanes most other ships pursued.  Captain Tom Dudley, by all accounts a kind and good man, and his three hands drifted for weeks inside a leaky, tiny dinghy, surviving on two tins of turnips and a small ration of water.  Ravished by weather conditions, fear, starvation, and especially thirst, they persevered as long as they could, but eventually Dudley knew that the lot must be cast and one man die in order that the others might survive a little longer.  When the youngest hand succumbed to the temptation of quenching his thirst by drinking sea water and rapidly approached death, the decision was made by Dudley and his first made Stephens to kill him.  Blood quenched the terrible thirst of the men, including the third man Brooks who partook of the terrible rations as willingly as his mates, and human meat sustained all three men long enough for a ship to finally rescue them after almost four weeks adrift.  The captain who saved the men understood, as most sailing people did, that Dudley had done what had to be done.  When the men finally made it back home, they were shocked to find themselves charged with murder.  The case was a sensation, and the conviction of Dudley and Stephens for willful murder provoked a myriad of outcries from all over the country while setting a legal precedent of unusual distinction.<br />The book begins somewhat slowly, at least for me, as the author devotes a significant amount of time to the life and duties of men aboard ship.  The story of the destructive storm they encounter and their ordeal at sea is of course quite gripping.  The second half of the book basically covers their arrest and trial, and while this part of the story necessarily lacks some of the human drama that has come before it, the miscarriage of justice described by the author increasingly raises one's hackles as the book nears its end.  Such an act of desperate cannibalism cannot be condoned, of course, but it is certainly understandable under the desperate conditions these sailors found themselves in.  The moral and ethical issues underlying the controversy are debatable, but the story that comes out here is one of judicial abuse.  The Home Office, having failed earlier to outlaw \\"the custom of the sea,\\" basically used this case to obtain its elusive goal, railroading the unfortunate sailors.  Their conviction was guaranteed from the start, a fact their own lawyer knew but did not divulge to them at the time.  Most remarkably, the presiding judge basically told the jury they must convict the men of murder yet went on to resort to an archaic legal maneuver that took judgment out of the hands of the jury (for fear that local sentiment might result in an acquittal) and made the royal court both judge and jury.  I'm not a lawyer, but the legal jurisprudence of this case would seem to be of great significance.<br />The book does drag in a couple of places.  Hanson takes the time to comment on the history of shipwrecks and of cannibalistic survival methods of desperate men.  He also goes into great detail as to life on board a ship and the pitiful state of mandated food rations.  These facts are all interesting and provide a useful background to the story of the Mignonette, but they do take away from the driving force of the tale.  I should say that the story is written in a narrative form, for the most part.  While this makes the book more compelling, it does pose a problem in terms of the facts.  The author describes the life and times of these men as if he were there recording their thoughts anddeeds from the day they sailed to the day their legal ordeal finally ended.  That kind of narrative would not make for good history in an academic sense, but it does make for a compelling, eye-opening read.nd deeds from the day they sailed to the day their legal ordeal finally ended.  That kind of narrative would not make for good history in an academic sense, but it does make for a compelling, eye-opening read.	2003-03-05
1208651:US	53016962	R2TCC4GMU7X3HY	0910489130	714481423	Cold Print	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An immensely important expansion of Lovecraft's Mythos	Cold Print contains a number of stories based on and influenced by Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos.  I find Campbell unique among those writers who have followed in the footsteps of the master of the macabre, and the author's introduction to this volume of short stories is quite illuminating.  Campbell based much of his early work on standard Lovecraft themes and styles.  Over time, however, he found himself rather frustrated with the types of Cthulhu Mythos stories being written by modern writers, feeling that most of them dealt far too much with the genealogies of the old gods lying outside space and time and concentrated far too much on exaggerations of the writing style of Lovecraft.  His insights give me a much greater appreciation of the later works collected here, particularly The Voice at the Beach, of which he seems to be the most proud.  Campbell most appreciates Lovecraft's ability to suggest far more than he showed, and in his own emulation of this central theme his later works strike some, such as Lovecraft authority Lin Carter, as insufficiently Lovecraftian.  While other writers have expended a great amount of effort filling in the gaps of Lovecraft's list of monsters and otherworldly forces, Campbell has tried to dramatically expand the original vision of the Mythos.<br />The progression of Campbell's writing is easy to discern in these pages.  The oldest of these fifteen stories, dating back to the 1960s, are grounded in the traditional Lovecraftian universe.  What you find here are dark, corrupted churches where dark deeds have shunned the light of Christianity, ancient, reptilian gods buried deep in the ground struggling to reemerge with the help of frightening acolytes, lives preserved for hundreds of years by means of secret rites best left undiscovered, frightening journal accounts of hideous revelations leading to the ultimate sacrifice of those who stumbled upon ancient knowledge accidentally, a plethora of references to dark tomes such as the Revelations of Glaaki, and explorations of obscure references to the insect-beasts from Shaggai and entities such as the blind god Azathoth and Daoloth, the Render of the Veils.<br />Eventually, the stories began to change as Campbell sought new inspiration from the Mythos in the 1970s and 1980s.  Among the Pictures Are These, for example, is not a story at all, but rather a description of a number of dark sketches drawn by the author in his youth.  The Tugging is built around the sharing of dark dreams by father and son, and an esoteric calling from the dream world that determines the protagonist's thoughts and movements.  The Faces at Pine Dunes remains firmly entrenched in modernity, as a young man seeks to understand his parents' incessant traveling and, more importantly, their decision to remain outside the dark woods of Pine Dunes; the story's culmination before a bog from which a gurgling, mud-drenched entity emerges betokens a human's return to that which lies outside more than an invasion of unworldly forces striving to regain control over our world.  The Voice of the Beach is clearly the most important story to be found here.  A cursory reading results in disappointment because it mentions nothing about Old Ones or dark grimoires filled with forbidden writing, nor does it showcase the type of all-pervasive menace Lovecraft constructed his dark tales around.  A rereading of the book's introduction, however, allows one to place the story in the context of Campbell's unique vision.  This remarkably new and abstract form of Lovecraftian art betrays hidden wonders writhing below a surface seldom scratched by other writers in the field.<br />I actually enjoy reading Mythos tales told in the traditional vein, and for this reason I find Campbell's earlier stories much more fun to read than his more esoteric, later ones.  However, I am much more impressed by the later tales reflecting a totally new type of storytelling based on the original influence of Lovecraft.  Campbell's criticism of those who search for the heart of Lovecraft and the Mythos in genealogies of the Ancient Ones and in the traditional writing style of the Cthulhuian canon, refusing to consider untraditional stories such as those Campbell has contributed, is very telling, enlightening, and inspiring, and I for one can only praise Campbell for the groundbreaking contributions he has made in the field of Lovecraft-influenced horror.Campbell's criticism of those who search for the heart of Lovecraft and the Mythos in genealogies of the Ancient Ones and in the traditional writing style of the Cthulhuian canon, refusing to consider untraditional stories such as those Campbell has contributed, is very telling, enlightening, and inspiring, and I for one can only praise Campbell for the groundbreaking contributions he has made in the field of Lovecraft-influenced horror.	2003-03-03
1213086:US	53016962	R1IF3DVE263WVI	0890838151	805130938	Mysteries of the Worm	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Robert Bloch's contributions to the Cthulhu Mythos	Mysteries of the Worm is a collection of early Robert Bloch stories, several of which had not seen print in over four decades, based on the Cthulhu Mythos cosmology created by H. P. Lovecraft.  As a teenaged burgeoning author, Bloch attained a place in the lofty Lovecraft Circle in the two or three years before HPL's untimely death, and his early writing was heavily influenced by Lovecraft.  The earliest of these stories dates back to 1937, and it is rather easy to see Bloch's transition as a writer as one journeys from one story to the next.  Early pieces such as The Secret in the Tomb are highly derivative of Lovecraft in terms of mood, setting, language, and flourishing style.  The Mannikin bears the influence of Lovecraft's The Dunwich Horror and The Thing on the Doorstep.  In time, Bloch began making his own contributions to the Mythos by exploring a newly-discovered avenue of HPL's geometrically twisted cosmos.  In The Shambler From the Stars, Bloch introduces his own dark tome of mystic lore, Ludvig Prinn's De Vermis Mysteriis, or The Mysteries of the Worm, and it is this contribution to the Mythos that Bloch is most remembered for.<br />The Shambler From the Stars is quite interesting because a character clearly based on Lovecraft comes to a nasty end similar to that of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred himself.  Dark Demon features yet another Lovecraft-based character, this one an author who comes to believe that his weird fiction is in fact truth he has been ordained to preach by Nyarlathotep himself.  What I find most interesting about Bloch's stories, however, is the incorporation of Egyptian mythology into the Mythos.  Inspired by Lovecraft's mention of Nephren-Ka in The Haunter of the Dark, Bloch takes us into the history of this evil pharaoh whose existence was supposedly all but expunged from Egyptian history.  Nephren-Ka and his acolytes worshipped Nyarlathotep himself, and Bloch has ancient remnants of the group surviving under Cairo itself, while some of the worshippers along with a number of the priests of the god Bubastis escaped Egypt and settled eventually on the coasts of Britain, underneath the moors of Cornwall, where they continued their efforts to create a hybrid with the attributes of their deity.<br />Bloch later looked back on many of these early tales with some embarrassment, pointing out the amateur quality many of them possessed.  I, however, find all of these stories quite good and great fun to read.  I would just point to one other story at this time as being of special interest.  After Bloch killed \\"Lovecraft\\" in The Shambler From the Stars, HPL kindly reciprocated by killing a Bloch-based character in his classic tale The Haunter of the Dark.  That happens to be one of my favorite HPL stories, so I was quite happy to find that Bloch had actually written a sequel to it in the form of The Shadow From the Steeple.  While it lacks the stultifying menace of HPL's master work, it proved quite interesting and nostalgic to take up the events surrounding that old church steeple and the Shining Trapezohedron found there, the frightful jewel that served as a gateway through which Nyarlathotep, the Haunter of the Dark, could manifest himself on Earth.<br />Featuring an introduction by Call of Cthulhu series editor Robert M. Price, an afterword by Robert Bloch himself, an essay by Lin Carter on Bloch's contribution to the Mythos, and a very helpful introduction to each story contained herein, Mysteries of the Worm is a book that all Cthulhu Mythos acolytes should own.  While the stories aren't as complex and nourishing as HPL's own fictional creations, they not only satisfy the eternal desire for good Mythos-based weird fiction, they open up new avenues of the whole cosmology that are fascinating in and of themselves.me of the worshippers along with a number of the priests of the god Bubastis escaped Egypt and settled eventually on the coasts of Britain, underneath the moors of Cornwall, where they continued their efforts to create a hybrid with the attributes of their deity.  <br />Bloch later looked back on many of these early tales with some embarrassment, pointing out the amateur quality many of them possessed.  I, however, find all of these stories quite good and great fun to read.  I would just point to one other story at this time as being of special interest.  After Bloch killed \\"Lovecraft\\" in The Shambler From the Stars, HPL kindly reciprocated by killing a Bloch-based character in his classic tale The Haunter of the Dark.  That happens to be one of my favorite HPL stories, so I was quite happy to find that Bloch had actually written a sequel to it in the form of The Shadow From the Steeple.  While it lacks the stultifying menace of HPL's master work, it proved quite interesting and nostalgic to take up the events surrounding that old church steeple and the Shining Trapezohedron found there, the frightful jewel that served as a gateway through which Nyarlathotep, the Haunter of the Dark, could manifest himself on Earth.<br />Featuring an introduction by Call of Cthulhu series editor Robert M. Price, an afterword by Robert Bloch himself, an essay by Lin Carter on Bloch's contribution to the Mythos, and a very helpful introduction to each story contained herein, Mysteries of the Worm is a book that all Cthulhu Mythos acolytes should own.  While the stories aren't as complex and nourishing as HPL's own fictional creations, they not only satisfy the eternal desire for good Mythos-based weird fiction, they open up new avenues of the whole cosmology that are fascinating in and of themselves.	2003-02-27
1217062:US	53016962	R2EXF5AB7TCNLC	0451208048	506898227	The Haunting of the Presidents: A Paranormal History of the U.S. Presidency	Books	2	28	40	N	N	Incredible claims with few details or supporting evidence	The idea of assembling together evidence on the reported hauntings at the White House and other important historical sites seems like an idea long overdue.  One hears stories about Lincoln's ghost and other such rumors, but there really is no authoritative book detailing all of the facts and legends.  Unfortunately, I must say that there is still no such authoritative book.  Martin and Birnes have certainly presented readers with a lot of information; apparently, they have never met a rumor or unsupported fact they didn't like.  That becomes a problem.  These pages contain more ghost references than I would ever imagine possible, thus making the need for supporting documentation crucial.  Frankly, almost nothing the authors give us supports what they are saying.  Going beyond the sore lack of provenance to these reports, I became increasingly frustrated at the huge leaps of faith and incredible assumptions the authors try to pass off as fact.  More times than I can count, we are told that this ghost has been known to appear here or that ghost would return a century later.  Only rarely do we get any details whatsoever to back up these incredible statements.  Matters only get worse as one forges ahead.  Along with the lack of any detail whatsoever, the authors begin to tell us that a certain manifestation must surely have been that of a certain individual.  Somebody may or may not have seen something at a certain place, but the authors conclude that the person almost certainly witnessed the apparition of some famous person.  When they delve into the subject of spiritualism and psychic abilities among the presidents, they provide private dialogue between parties that they cannot possibly have documented.  The most absurd statement in the book involves the authors' refusal to let the supposed death curse on zero-year presidents die; perhaps, they opine, President Reagan began \\"dying\\" at the hands of Alzheimer's Disease before he finished his second term.<br />There are just tons of examples of unsupported accounts and conclusions in this book, so many that I cannot put much faith in anything reported on these pages.  I know this is not an academic text and I don't expect footnotes, but I do expect to actually learn the most basic of details of the reports cited.  There is a significant bibliography in the back of the book, but even there the authors say that there was not enough room to list all of the sources they used.  The trouble does not end here, as the authors make authoritative statements about such controversial events as the Kennedy assassination; these guys have an answer for every mystery in American history.  Undoubtedly, there is some factual, important information in this book, but it's hardly worth finding amid the morass of unreliable reporting.  While this book was interesting, I began to regard it as rather foolish halfway through it.  The authors have some of these spirits making more public appearances in death than they ever did in life.  My final complaint concerns the political agenda that clearly finds its way into the final hundred pages; the authors resort to snide comments and accusations that made clear their stand on modern-day politics.  I don't care what the authors' political views are, but I don't think they have any place in a book supposedly devoted to presidential hauntings.just tons of examples of unsupported accounts and conclusions in this book, so many that I cannot put much faith in anything reported on these pages.  I know this is not an academic text and I don't expect footnotes, but I do expect to actually learn the most basic of details of the reports cited.  There is a significant bibliography in the back of the book, but even there the authors say that there was not enough room to list all of the sources they used.  The trouble does not end here, as the authors make authoritative statements about such controversial events as the Kennedy assassination; these guys have an answer for every mystery in American history.  Undoubtedly, there is some factual, important information in this book, but it's hardly worth finding amid the morass of unreliable reporting.  While this book was interesting, I began to regard it as rather foolish halfway through it.  The authors have some of these spirits making more public appearances in death than they ever did in life.  My final complaint concerns the political agenda that clearly finds its way into the final hundred pages; the authors resort to snide comments and accusations that made clear their stand on modern-day politics.  I don't care what the authors' political views are, but I don't think they have any place in a book supposedly devoted to presidential hauntings.	2003-02-24
1221048:US	53016962	R1ZK6CTLEYG1HD	0192833944	876021300	The Monk (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	100	101	N	N	The most influential of the Gothic horror novels	The Monk is perhaps the most significant and certainly the most controversial of the Gothic novels of the late 18th century.  Amazingly, its author, nineteen-year-old Matthew Lewis, wrote the novel in a period of only six weeks.  Although inspired by the work of Ann Radcliffe (among other Gothic writers), Lewis goes far beyond the sensibilities of his predecessors and does not choose to explain away the supernatural events fuelling this inflammatory novel.  The Monk is a tale of human evil in its most vile form; the unspeakable acts described in these pages are committed by the supposedly most devout individuals in society.  The Catholic Church was incensed with the novel's publication, and it is actually quite remarkable that The Monk was published at all and that its author faced nothing more dire than censorship and indignant protest as a consequence of it.<br />Ambrosio is the most celebrated, revered monk in Madrid (in the era of the infamous Spanish Inquisition) - his sermons attract crowds far too large to gain admittance to the sanctuary, and everyone holds him up as a veritable saint walking the earth.  His fall from grace is precipitous indeed.  Secretly, Ambrosio is vain and proud, blissfully assured of his own near-perfection.  At the first temptation of lust, however, this holy man reveals himself to be the ultimate hypocrite, giving in rather easily to the type of desire he rails against each Sunday.  After learning that his friend Rosario is in fact a lovely woman in disguise named Matilda, he revels in the love she declares for him and quickly becomes her secret lover.  Quickly and ever more thoroughly consumed by his new-found passion and carnal lasciviousness, he grows tired of the ever-willing Matilda and turns his perverted eye toward the sweet and wholly innocent young Antonia.  Through the witchcraft of Matilda, he comes to consort with demons in the sacred crypts underneath the abbey itself, giving up his morality and piety in the blind pursuit of actions worse than mere rape.<br />Ambrosio is not the only hypocritical, secretly sinful church official in Madrid, however.  The prioress of the convent bordering the abbey is a sickeningly cruel and spiteful agent of perfidy herself.  When she discovers that Agnes, one of her novitiates, is pregnant, she is so mortified at the impending shame this fact will bring down upon her and the convent that she resorts to the most barbaric of punishments for the poor and pitiable young lady.  While her crimes do not quite exceed those of Ambrosio, the devastating consequences of her sinful acts result in long-lasting, deeply grievous repercussions.<br />The novel takes a while to really come together.  After seeing Ambrosio in his publicly sanctimonious guise and watching his pitiful descent into the passions and lusts inspired by Matilda, we spend a great deal of time becoming acquainted with Antonia, Agnes, and the gentlemen who love them and will eventually fight bravely to try and save them both physically and morally from their sad fates.  The story of the Bleeding Nun apparition is an important part of this section of the book and gives the reader his first real introduction to the supernatural aspects of the story.  It is almost possible to forget about Ambrosio completely for a time; when he returns to the story, however, he commits unspeakable acts and profanes the very name of the God he supposedly serves in such excess that he earns a permanent spot in the annals of literature's most despicable villains.<br />It is in the crypts, among the moldering corpses of the dead, that the most blasphemous acts take place.  Antonia's fate is quite horrible, but it is actually Agnes' tale of woe that takes the reader to the most horrific of extremes.  Just when the worst seems to be over, we learn in graphic detail the almost unimaginable extent of the ordeal suffered by Agnes and her innocent child - the tale is quite gruesome even by today's standards, almost unimaginably so by those of Lewis' own time.  The suffering of the innocent Agnes and Antonia is, in my opinion, unparalleled in the realm of Gothic horror.<br />Even some critics who are less than found of the Gothic horror genre have embraced this novel, partly because it does distinguish itself from the more Romantic writings of an author such as Ann Radcliffe.  As such, it seems less pretentious and much more visceral than the typical Gothic tome.  Lewis holds nothing back in presenting his portrayal of evil in the hearts of men and women.  There is a love story aspect to the events surrounding Agnes and Antonia, but the author does not indulge in flowery descriptions of love, nor does he concern himself with rapturous expositions on the beauty of nature.  There is very little of beauty to be found in these pages at all, and what innocence exists is ultimately lost at the hands of corrupted servants of God.  With such complexity underlying the plot, The Monk is open to a number of interpretations, and its microscopic portrayal of evil's power to overcome the best of men and women continues to fascinate and leave a lasting impression on one generation of readers after another.  Even in our own time, The Monk is more than capable of shocking the reader with its unbridled revelations.inably so by those of Lewis' own time.  The suffering of the innocent Agnes and Antonia is, in my opinion, unparalleled in the realm of Gothic horror.<br />Even some critics who are less than found of the Gothic horror genre have embraced this novel, partly because it does distinguish itself from the more Romantic writings of an author such as Ann Radcliffe.  As such, it seems less pretentious and much more visceral than the typical Gothic tome.  Lewis holds nothing back in presenting his portrayal of evil in the hearts of men and women.  There is a love story aspect to the events surrounding Agnes and Antonia, but the author does not indulge in flowery descriptions of love, nor does he concern himself with rapturous expositions on the beauty of nature.  There is very little of beauty to be found in these pages at all, and what innocence exists is ultimately lost at the hands of corrupted servants of God.  With such complexity underlying the plot, The Monk is open to a number of interpretations, and its microscopic portrayal of evil's power to overcome the best of men and women continues to fascinate and leave a lasting impression on one generation of readers after another.  Even in our own time, The Monk is more than capable of shocking the reader with its unbridled revelations.	2003-02-20
1222472:US	53016962	R23FKU7A808Q41	1889186007	680826216	Painfreak	Books	4	1	1	N	N	10 stories of pure erotic horror	This collection of 10 stories of erotic horror by Gerard Daniel Houarner is rather hard to find; to the best of my knowledge, it was limited to 500 copies signed by the author and Tom Piccirilli (who wrote the introduction).  Painfreak itself refers to a club, although club is hardly the right word for it.  Painfreak is one of those mysterious places that moves all over the world, appearing in whichever location seems to need it most at the time; its owners and staff seem to exist outside of town itself and never change.  You can only enter its doors by invitation, and many are the souls who enter never to return.  Inside, men and women seek and learn the ecstasy of both pleasure and pain, although some are too timid to go all the way that Painfreak professionals do.  A few of these stories do not really have anything to do with Painfreak, but they all are built on extreme sex and violence.<br />\\"Painfreak\\" introduces us to the secret club as one man follows his wayward wife back to the place he thought they had both given up several years earlier.  \\"Safe Word\\" is the story of a young woman sent out on the streets to arouse and then punish random individuals for the pleasure of her master.  \\"Painted Faces\\" is a particularly disturbing tale of domination, childhood trauma, and murder.  In \\"The Night Pain,\\" a rather pathetic young man employs horribly bizarre means to compel a woman to be his.  \\"Hot Thing\\" is a rather surreal and ultimately flawed piece involving unusual means for securing one's pleasures.  \\"Trail of Pain & Letters\\" is written in the form of letters from a dominatrix to her slave, and it boasts a particularly satisfying ending.  \\"Tongue\\" did not impress me very much; it is another tale of childhood trauma impinging on adult behavior.  Rounding things off is The Max Trilogy.  These three stories all revolve around Max and the Beast within him, and his special relationship with a pair of twins.  The three of them sate their passions by torturing unfortunate souls both physically and emotionally, living lives akin to vampires of a particularly erotic nature.  They have their own enemies, however.  Max, for example, is led by temptation to the unholy walls of Painfreak for the first time in years, and here he encounters an amalgamated force of all of his former victims.  For the twin girls, the greatest danger comes in the form of their unknown father, a man intent on finding or else recreating his own long-lost twin.<br />A couple of these stories do not work exceedingly well in my mind, and sometimes the degree of eroticism in the horror becomes repetitive, but for the most part these are stand-out stories in the realm of erotic horror.  The Painfreak concept works particularly well and really gives this book of stories a strong collective identity.  The whole sex-pain-pleasure concept is an increasingly familiar one to readers of extreme horror, and Houarner proves himself an adept practitioner of the literary dark arts.nate souls both physically and emotionally, living lives akin to vampires of a particularly erotic nature.  They have their own enemies, however.  Max, for example, is led by temptation to the unholy walls of Painfreak for the first time in years, and here he encounters an amalgamated force of all of his former victims.  For the twin girls, the greatest danger comes in the form of their unknown father, a man intent on finding or else recreating his own long-lost twin.  <br />A couple of these stories do not work exceedingly well in my mind, and sometimes the degree of eroticism in the horror becomes repetitive, but for the most part these are stand-out stories in the realm of erotic horror.  The Painfreak concept works particularly well and really gives this book of stories a strong collective identity.  The whole sex-pain-pleasure concept is an increasingly familiar one to readers of extreme horror, and Houarner proves himself an adept practitioner of the literary dark arts.	2003-02-19
1226921:US	53016962	R1ZPWQUIVI27CB	0812566572	981105427	Marrow	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Flawed but compelling and exciting	No one knew where the gigantic ship came from or how old it was or who built it.  It sailed the galaxies for untold eons before intelligent life forms discovered it.  The first discoverers attempted to destroy it, fearing its immensity, but the Ship was made to withstand the worst of weapons.  Eventually, some creatures boarded the ship and made it their home.  Over the millennia, it became a universe all its own, filled with untold types of species and creatures living inside immense areas of their own design, creatures whose knowledge had made them virtually immortal.  One day, out of the blue, the ship's best captains were assembled and shown an inconceivable site-the gigantic spaceship, bigger than worlds, had a planet inside its core.  The captains were sent to explore the fearsome, inhospitable planet, and in so doing they became trapped on the harsh land they called Marrow.  For millennia they worked and waited, unsure if the Master and the ship's passengers had perished or simply forgotten them.  The children of the settlers broke away from their Loyalist forebears and forged their own society, calling themselves the Waywards, great Builders reborn.  Miocene, the Loyalist leader, and her son Till became bitter enemies.  After untold years of waiting, the return of the lost captains would change life inside the Ship forever.<br />The book moves along quite well as we see the selected captains travel down to the impossible planet Marrow and forge a life for themselves after their entrapment in that fierce environment.  The first problems come with the return of the lost Captains from Marrow back to the ship.  The novel seems to be too epic in its scope, and Reed basically skips right over some of the drastic changes that have taken place on Marrow.  The actions of Miocene, a central character, change drastically during these years hidden from our eyes, and her role in the takeover of the Ship never makes perfect sense to me.  The first half of the book builds up to the return from Marrow to the ship, yet the section following that historic event disrupts the flow of the story by pausing to explain what has been going on onboard the ship over the intervening years and acquainting us with Pamir, one of the novel's prominent heroes in the battle for control of the Ship.  This does great damage to the flow of the novel, and it never fully recovers its initial momentum.  Things begin to happen too fast toward the end, and the actions and motivations of several key characters are hard to discern.<br />While this book does have a few weaknesses in plot and character development, the overall story is wonderfully different and quite enjoyable.  With the exception of the interlude of sorts in the middle, the plot moves along very well.  Sometimes it moves too fast, causing me trouble in correlating what was being done by whom and for what reason.  Some of the science is not adequately explained, but this was not a big issue for me because I found the whole idea behind the novel delightfully different and compelling.  Once the story gets going, its energy drew me further and further into it and left me anxious to see just how events would play out in the end.  A few surprises could have been explained more fully, but overall I was quite impressed with this science fiction novel.s up to the return from Marrow to the ship, yet the section following that historic event disrupts the flow of the story by pausing to explain what has been going on onboard the ship over the intervening years and acquainting us with Pamir, one of the novel's prominent heroes in the battle for control of the Ship.  This does great damage to the flow of the novel, and it never fully recovers its initial momentum.  Things begin to happen too fast toward the end, and the actions and motivations of several key characters are hard to discern.  <br />While this book does have a few weaknesses in plot and character development, the overall story is wonderfully different and quite enjoyable.  With the exception of the interlude of sorts in the middle, the plot moves along very well.  Sometimes it moves too fast, causing me trouble in correlating what was being done by whom and for what reason.  Some of the science is not adequately explained, but this was not a big issue for me because I found the whole idea behind the novel delightfully different and compelling.  Once the story gets going, its energy drew me further and further into it and left me anxious to see just how events would play out in the end.  A few surprises could have been explained more fully, but overall I was quite impressed with this science fiction novel.	2003-02-15
1231715:US	53016962	R3MAGNU43H9RM7	0785214232	951399083	30 Days to Understanding the Bible in 15 Minutes a Day!	Books	3	10	20	N	N	Only useful to those with no Bible knowledge whatsoever	Frankly, I was disappointed by this book. Having been raised as a Southern Baptist, I found myself thinking more about the people and matters the author left out of the book than the material he included. Naturally, it is quite difficult to cover the entire Bible in one normal-sized book, but I found this work to be overly simplistic and lacking in its overall presentation of the true meaning of the Bible and Christianity. The author devotes the first two-thirds or so of the book to a presentation of the geography and history of Biblical times, coupled with a quick summation of the poetical, prophetic, and instructional books. Having completed that task, he ends by summing up eight basic principles of the Bible. I had expected to find the real meat of the book in this last section, but I found it sorely wanting in terms of its exposition of Christian doctrine and guidelines. The real meaning of Jesus' life never really emerged from the pages, and the importance of faith, while addressed, was not stressed or explained as much as I would have liked or expected it to be.<br />Certainly, the author's motives are noble, but his desire to make this book accessible to anyone and everyone results in a dry presentation that is not very compelling. This book would be most useful to persons without any kind of religious background, but I fear that it will not bring real understanding to most of its readers, nor do I think it will convince many sinners to seek God. Anyone brought up as a church-goer in a Christian denomination will learn nothing he/she didn't already learn in Sunday School as a child.	2003-02-11
1232298:US	53016962	R1ZYOYYJHR3SGT	0893671789	810527544	Basic Beliefs: An Introduction Guide to Christian Theology	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Basics of Christian Beliefs	Although this book is several decades old now, it is still a useful guide to Christian life. The author does a good job of discussing several specific issues the church and the Christian need to address; while he does not go into detail about any of these issues, he does say enough to cover each topic pretty well. As the subtitle says, this is an introductory guide to Christian theology (not &quot;introduction guide&quot; as this listing shows); it has the feel of a primer or textbook. In fact, each chapter ends with a set of questions drawn from the material just covered--I myself don't feel these questions are that useful, and I imagine most readers will just skip right over them. Early on, DeMaray tries to prove that God exists; while I do not argue with his conclusion, I did find the kinds of logical arguments he uses to make his case pretty weak (i.e., if the world exists, God exists; if sin exists, God exists, etc.). Since faith in God is a prerequisite for Christianity, I feel he could have just skipped over the philosophically impossible task of proving God exists. I was particularly interested in reading the author's opinion concerning several key sacraments and other issues, particularly baptism. As a Southern Baptist who believes in believer's baptism by immersion, I thought the author might present this belief in a negative light. However, I found that the author does a very good job of addressing the differing beliefs among all Christian denominations on this and every other topic (with the exception of the Catholic belief in purgatory, which he does criticize to some degree). Moreover, he goes out of his way to express the thought that faith is much more important than the form in which that faith is expressed.	2003-02-11
1242353:US	53016962	R2O8CY9NDNN53O	0451527631	315718149	Looking Backward (Signet Classics)	Books	5	36	48	N	N	A warmly human and enlightening read	Having never really heard of this novel or its author before, I was rather surprised to discover how immensely popular it was at the end of the nineteenth century.  Edward Bellamy does an excellent albeit sometimes pedantic job of communicating his socioeconomic views and provides an interesting and informative read, despite the fact that the utopia of his fictional creation is a socialist nightmare in the realm of my own personal philosophy.  It is very important to understand the time in which Bellamy was writing, especially for a conservative-minded thinker such as myself who holds many of Bellamy's views as anathema.  It was the mid-1880s, a time of great social unrest; vast strikes by labor unions, clashes between workers and managers, a debilitating economic depression.  Bellamy, to his credit, in no way comes off as holier than thou; his wealthy protagonist recognizes his own responsibility in seeing the world in the eyes of the more prosperous classes, basically ignoring the plights of the poor and downtrodden, having inherited rather than earned the money he is privileged to enjoy, etc.  This makes the character's observations and conclusions very impactful upon the reader.  <br />While I do respect Bellamy's views and understand the context in which they germinated, I cannot help but describe his future utopia as nothing less than nave, socialistic, unworkable, and destructive of the individual spirit.  Indeed, it sounds to me like vintage Soviet communism, at least in its ideals.  Bellamy is a Marxist with blinders on.  I should describe the actual novel at this point.  The protagonist, an insomniac having employed a mesmerist to help him sleep through the night,  finds himself waking up not the following morning in 1887 but in a completely changed world in 2000.  His bed chamber was a subterranean fortress of sorts which only he, his servant, and the mesmerist (who left the city that same night) even knew about, and apparently his home proper burned down on that fateful night and thus his servant was clearly unable to bring him out of his trance the following morning.  It is only by accident that Dr. Leekes of twentieth-century Boston discovers the unknown tomb and helps resuscitate its remarkable inhabitant.  20th-century life is wholly unlike anything the protagonist has ever known, and the book basically consists of a number of instruction sessions by the Leekes as to how society has been virtually perfected over the preceding 100 years.  There is no more war, crime, unhappiness, discrimination, etc.  There are no such things as wages or prices, even.  All men and women are paid the same by virtue of their being human beings; while money does not exist, everyone has everything they possibly need easily available to them for purchase with special credit cards.  Every part of the economy is controlled by the national government, and it is through cooperation of the brotherhood of men that production has exceeded many times over that of privately controlled industries fighting a war against each other in the name of capitalism.  <br />Bellamy's future utopia is most open to question in terms of the means by which individualism is supposedly strengthened rather than smothered, how a complex but seemingly set of incentives supposedly keep each worker happy and productive, how invention or improvement of anything is possible in such a world, and how this great society does not in fact become a mirror of Khrushchev's Russian state.  Such a society consisting of an \\"industrial army\\" and controlled in the minutest of terms by a central national authority simply sounds like Communism to my ears and is equally as unsustainable.  Of course, Bellamy wrote this novel many years before the first corruptions of Marx's dangerous dreams were made a reality on earth.  As I said, I disagree with just about everything Bellamy praises, and I think almost anyone would agree his utopia is an impossibility, but I greatly respect the man for his bold, humanitarian vision and applaud his efforts to make the world a better place.  In fact, many groups organized themselves along the lines of the world Bellamy envisioned, so the novel's influence on contemporary popular thought is beyond question.  Looking Backward remains a fascinating read in our own time.  <br />I should make clear that the novel is not completely a dry recitation of socioeconomic arguments and moralistic treatises.  Bellamy makes the story of this most unusual of time travelers a most enjoyable one, bringing in an unusual type of old-fashioned romance to supply the beating heart of a novel that had the potential to become overly analytical and thus rather boring reading otherwise.  He also managed to grab me by the scruff of the neck and shake me around a couple of times with his concluding chapter, quite shocking me with a couple of unexpected plot twists.  This great humanist of the late nineteenth century can teach us all something about what it means to be truly human, although I fear that his socioeconomic theories are themselves far too romanticized to have much practical relevance in the lives of modern men and women.	2003-02-03
1255260:US	53016962	R1CLB6W652JK4B	0802842836	521049558	The Original Jesus: The Life and Vision of a Revolutionary	Books	4	38	39	N	N	A clear, insightful introduction to the historical Jesus	In The Original Jesus, author Tom Wright examines Jesus in the historical perspective.  He attempts to take you back to Jesus' own time in order for the reader to recognize the message Christ was actually proclaiming and to interpret it and the Gospels in the context of those times.  In other words, Wright tries to \\"take you there\\" to see Jesus as he was two thousand years ago.  It is a short and seemingly uncomplicated book, filled with a number of illustrations of Jesus in the Holy Land, yet it does succeed surprisingly well in its aims.  I consider myself fairly knowledgeable about the subject of Jesus' words and deeds, and Wright gave me new perspectives that certainly enhance my understanding.  He calls Jesus a revolutionary in the sub-title, and he does a great job of showing just how revolutionary his message was based on the context of the time.  Under Wright's guidance, even as seemingly esoteric a fact as the nature of the area in which Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount becomes theologically important.  The history of Israel and her covenant with God serve as the lynchpin of the message Wright gleans from the Gospels.  He argues that the Gospels were written for two main reasons: to tell the story of Jesus and to address the contemporaries of the individual Gospel writer.  It is in this context, he says, that the discrepancies between the Gospel accounts can be explained, and he offers a helpful summation of the purposes and target audiences of each of the four books.  By understanding the worlds out of which the Gospels were penned, one can gain greater insight into the good news revealed in each book.<br />Wright mentions the ideas of the Jesus Seminar and clearly disagrees with their practice of questioning everything in the Gospels hypercritically.  He clearly believes the Gospels are meant to show us the true life and work of Jesus, despite any differences in facts between their accounts, and that one's depth of comprehension can be greatly increased by understanding the historical context of Jesus' time on earth.  This book can easily be read in one sitting and is a great starting point for anyone interested in pursuing his/her own search for the historical Jesus.  Wright includes a bibliography of recommended sources for those who wish to continue the quest.creased by understanding the historical context of Jesus' time on earth.  This book can easily be read in one sitting and is a great starting point for anyone interested in pursuing his/her own search for the historical Jesus.  Wright includes a bibliography of recommended sources for those who wish to continue the quest.	2003-01-23
1255830:US	53016962	R28S64OOH23OI0	0684823691	18666983	Sightings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No mystery is closed to an open mind	Susan Michaels was the one and only writer for the television series Sightings, and this book recounts some of the more interesting topics covered by the groundbreaking show.  Whether you believe any or all of the accounts presented here is not crucial to your enjoyment of the book because Michaels is a talented writer who knows how to tell stories in a fascinating yet concise manner.  I myself am pretty open to all kinds of paranormal possibilities, and there are a couple of stories here that don't seem to merit inclusion in my opinion; nevertheless, they are interesting and who can say where the truth lies in each case?  The book itself is broken up into three main sections: Hauntings, UFOs, and the catch-all Unexplained.  While the book cannot even begin to give a detailed treatment of the subjects addressed, it does present a wonderful cross section of unexplained happenings, many of them quite familiar to those of us interested in such topics-e.g., the death of Thomas Mantell, the mass UFO sightings in Mexico City during the 1990s, the haunted castle of Berry-Pomeroy, and the Iranian UFO incident of 1976.  There are stories on cattle mutilation, past life memories, psychic detectives, spontaneous human combustion, alien abduction, crop circles, and a number of additional fascinating topics.  Most esoteric among the chapters is the story of the reputed curse that stunted a young Orson Welles' future career in the field he had already mastered.  The ghost section is particularly impressive, highlighting some incredible investigations that I remember quite vividly from the Sightings television series.  New evidence discovered by the Sightings teams is mixed with long-debated incidents and events that have achieved classic status among students of the unexplained.<br />You don't have to believe all of the stories you read here; in fact, you should not believe them uncritically.  Susan Michaels gives you the objective facts of the cases in question; in the tradition of the Sightings television show, she leaves the answers open and subject to thought and interpretation on the part of the audience.  Few books explore such a rich cross-section of unexplained phenomena as effectively as this book does, and I recommend it highly to all those open-minded enough to accept the possibility that the impossible sometimes happens.on of the Sightings television show, she leaves the answers open and subject to thought and interpretation on the part of the audience.  Few books explore such a rich cross-section of unexplained phenomena as effectively as this book does, and I recommend it highly to all those open-minded enough to accept the possibility that the impossible sometimes happens.	2003-01-23
1258096:US	53016962	RC5091738LFMG	0441009867	869734328	Vampire Sextette	Books	2	10	10	N	N	These six vampire novellas are quite anemic	In his introduction to this collection of six original erotic vampire novellas, editor Marvin Kaye insists that he has included stories of \\"the traditional bloodsucking variety.\\"  If that is his intent, I have to say he failed rather miserably.  You will find no vampires in this collection that resemble the traditional image of the breed.  In a couple of cases, vampirism seems to be an after-thought having no real connection to the story being told.  There is a fair share of eroticism in these pages, but as often as not it strikes me as gratuitous and thus ineffective.<br />Kim Newman's The Other Side of Midnight is, frankly, a mess.  There is hardly any plot at all to it.  Genevieve is an elder vampire going on six hundred years old, currently working as a private detective in California.  Someone is obsessed with remaking Dracula movies, including the great Orson Welles.  Welles hires Gene to find out about the man financing his project, a horrible remake of the Dracula story that was supposed to be Welles' big comeback movie.  In the midst of a plethora of Hollywood name-dropping, we also have Barbie the Vampire Slayer who is following the designs of the Overlooker (who happens to be a high school librarian).  Somehow all of these people are related, but the whole story is a ridiculous farce subsisting solely on nonsense.<br />Nancy Collins' Some Velvet Morning features Sonja Blue, the vampire/vampire slayer who has walked the pages of much of the author's fiction.  Sporting a black leather motorcycle jacket and mirrored sunglasses, she is the Blue Monster who badly wounded the Contessa years earlier and is determined to finish her off once and for all.  The Contessa is not a typical vampire; rather, she is a strega, one who has transformed herself into an Undead creature through black magic.  Rather than drink the blood of her victims, she washes in their blood in order to retain your youth and vitality.  She has her own private renfield named Phaedra who seduces men and brings them home to supply her mistress' needs.  I really enjoyed this story once I got past the overtly sexual descriptions early on.  Although Sonja is not heavily featured in the story as a whole-it is really the Contessa's story-she comes across as a most unusual \\"hero.\\"  We know she is a vampire, and we know her transformation was not a wanted one, but we are given few clues about her history and motivations.<br />The prolific Brian Stableford contributes the tale \\"Sheena\\" about a young Goth rock singer/songwriter.  The protagonist Tony Weever meets Sheena at work and becomes intrigued with her slight, deeply mysterious presence.  Sheena introduces Tony to a Gothic-dominated world built on memories of past lives, weaving a spell of sorts over him that leads him to thirst for the type of life in which the two of them can be truly together.  The story reads pretty well throughout but peters out into a slightly esoteric conclusion involving uncommon shades of vampirism.<br />S. P. Somtow's Vanilla Blood is just puerile nonsense, pornography disguised as vampiric fiction.  It consists almost exclusively of the transcript of a ridiculous murder case.  A young man killed his family and went on a murder spree, and the trial details the events leading up to his crime.  The witnesses are teenagers who describe disgusting vampiric activities in graphic terms that would never be permitted in any courthouse in the country, much of which has little to do with the facts of the purported murder case.  This courtroom farce is inane and not at all worth reading.<br />Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's In the Face of Death seems to have a lot of potential early on but slowly fizzles as the story progresses.  This is basically a tale of an affair between William T. Sherman's and a high-society vampire in 1855.  My intense dislike of Sherman admittedly affected my capacity for embracing the story; I had no desire to picture the man naked and engaging in passions of the flesh, I canassure you.  To the story's detriment, it never rises above the prurient level of Sherman's adulterous liaisons with Madelaine, a youthful vampire already well over a century old.  Sherman comes off as a weak, pathetic fool unable to control his passion for Madelaine despite his responsibilities to a wife and children of his own.  As far as the vampirism aspect of the tale is concerned, it is quite remote.  We hear of Madelaine's chests of native soil and her lining of her shoes with it so as to walk in the light of day, and that's about it.  The only moments involving lips and necks coming together involve kissing and nothing more.  I just don't think there is much to this particular story; the inclusion of a famous man of history in its pages serves no other purpose than to make the work stand out among other genre pieces.  I would not even call this horror; it is basically a romance.<br />The concluding piece is the unusual vampire tale The Isle is Full of Noises by Tanith Lee.  It does live up to its billing as a vampire story unlike any I've read before, but the story didn't work for me at all.  Lee intimately links a vampire with a piano, and no amount of literary preening makes the connection an effective one.  The story also contains a story within a story, sometimes making things confusing.  The premise sounds good; the protagonist works out her frustrations of an unrequited love by writing the man into her works of fiction, punishing him in the only fashion she knows how.  Quickly, though, the story gets bogged down in two competing storylines (one of them a story within a story) of converging vampiric pianos.  The whole thing is just too murky to be effective., I can assure you.  To the story's detriment, it never rises above the prurient level of Sherman's adulterous liaisons with Madelaine, a youthful vampire already well over a century old.  Sherman comes off as a weak, pathetic fool unable to control his passion for Madelaine despite his responsibilities to a wife and children of his own.  As far as the vampirism aspect of the tale is concerned, it is quite remote.  We hear of Madelaine's chests of native soil and her lining of her shoes with it so as to walk in the light of day, and that's about it.  The only moments involving lips and necks coming together involve kissing and nothing more.  I just don't think there is much to this particular story; the inclusion of a famous man of history in its pages serves no other purpose than to make the work stand out among other genre pieces.  I would not even call this horror; it is basically a romance.<br />The concluding piece is the unusual vampire tale The Isle is Full of Noises by Tanith Lee.  It does live up to its billing as a vampire story unlike any I've read before, but the story didn't work for me at all.  Lee intimately links a vampire with a piano, and no amount of literary preening makes the connection an effective one.  The story also contains a story within a story, sometimes making things confusing.  The premise sounds good; the protagonist works out her frustrations of an unrequited love by writing the man into her works of fiction, punishing him in the only fashion she knows how.  Quickly, though, the story gets bogged down in two competing storylines (one of them a story within a story) of converging vampiric pianos.  The whole thing is just too murky to be effective.	2003-01-21
1261936:US	53016962	R2IKTMK7T0IS66	0025210602	138435148	The nameless	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Campbell's conclusion is a betrayal of the evil he created	I had high hopes for this novel.  Ramsey Campbell, a master of psychological horror, seemed poised to add some uncharacteristically tangible frights and perhaps even it a bit of good old-fashioned gore to this particular work of fiction.  The concept is far from original-cult activity at its most disturbing-but I anxiously awaited the results of the author's decision to really get his hands dirty this time.  The book crawled along in places, but intermittent moments of foreboding kept my optimism intact as I continued my quest to reach what I felt would be the shocking conclusion.  Sadly, all of this great buildup essentially came to naught in the form of a sudden, anticlimactic, depressingly disappointing ending.  This novel proves that where there's smoke, there is not in fact always fire.  I actually felt cheated by the seeming rush job of an ending here, and I can only look back with regret at the high hopes I associated with this book as I made my way through it.  After the complete absence of tension or excitement at the end, one is left with a number of unanswered questions and a small set of characters who apparently served no purpose whatsoever in the narrative.  It is as if the author suddenly decided at the last minute that he just didn't care anymore.<br />Perhaps the term \\"the nameless\\" makes you think of unimaginable entities out of space and time with revoltingly indescribable features; it certainly brought a Lovecraftian connotation to my mind initially.  In terms of this novel, though, the Nameless are a cult who forego all earthly experience (such as names) in service to their cause.  It remains unclear, but there goal seems to consist of gaining power for themselves and presumably opening the door for something evil, I suppose, to manifest itself.  All I really know is that they were obsessed with torturing their victims and offering them up as sacrifices to nefarious agents (or so we are told but never really shown).  There is some type of nonhuman agent associated with them, but I never really learned what it was or why Campbell thought it needed to be included in the first place.  This cult had kidnapped Barbara Waugh's beloved three-year-old daughter, leaving behind an unrecognizable dead body which was naturally determined to be that of a murdered young Angela.  Nine years later, Barbara suddenly begins to receive mysterious phone calls from someone purporting to be her long-dead daughter.  Desperate to find out the truth and to rescue her daughter if she is in fact still alive, the distraught mother embarks on a frantic search for the group's whereabouts, assisted by her boyfriend Ted and a young reporter looking for her big break.  They pick up rather easily on the trail of the cult and seem to always be a few days behind it as it moves around.  But just who is chasing whom here?  The Nameless have designs on Barbara herself, and they know that her obsession with finding her lost daughter will lead her to them.  Some but by no means all of my own questions about Angela's real story are answered in the end, but they are less than satisfying.<br />Ramsey Campbell is certainly a talented author, but he seems to have misfired on this comparatively early effort.  He never goes as far as the storyline would seemingly require him to go here, and this retreat from the abyss he has spent so much time constructing damages the novel's effectiveness and appeal a great deal.an agent associated with them, but I never really learned what it was or why Campbell thought it needed to be included in the first place.  This cult had kidnapped Barbara Waugh's beloved three-year-old daughter, leaving behind an unrecognizable dead body which was naturally determined to be that of a murdered young Angela.  Nine years later, Barbara suddenly begins to receive mysterious phone calls from someone purporting to be her long-dead daughter.  Desperate to find out the truth and to rescue her daughter if she is in fact still alive, the distraught mother embarks on a frantic search for the group's whereabouts, assisted by her boyfriend Ted and a young reporter looking for her big break.  They pick up rather easily on the trail of the cult and seem to always be a few days behind it as it moves around.  But just who is chasing whom here?  The Nameless have designs on Barbara herself, and they know that her obsession with finding her lost daughter will lead her to them.  Some but by no means all of my own questions about Angela's real story are answered in the end, but they are less than satisfying.<br />Ramsey Campbell is certainly a talented author, but he seems to have misfired on this comparatively early effort.  He never goes as far as the storyline would seemingly require him to go here, and this retreat from the abyss he has spent so much time constructing damages the novel's effectiveness and appeal a great deal.	2003-01-18
1269281:US	53016962	R3DTOM3AA24SFR	0246126833	901554942	Obsession	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This kind of Obsession doesn't come in a bottle	I'm not really sure that the title Obsession really fits the story in these pages because the main characters are not truly obsessed with the act that originally set things in motion.  I also think some descriptions of this book overplay the impetus of the action.  It is not exactly right to say that the four main characters made an evil pact with some sinister force in their youth.  It was much more innocent than that.  Peter, who wishes his overbearing grandmother would go away and stop destroying his family, receives a letter from out of the blue one day with the cryptic message \\"Whatever you most need I do,\\" promising that the price of the service will be something he does not value at all.  Unwilling to reply on his own, he shares the message with three of his friends and convinces them to make their wishes along with him.  Robin wants one of her mother's coworkers to stop harassing her, Steve wants his undeniably vicious teacher to leave him alone, and Jimmy wants his father to stop gambling the family's money away.  The youths seemingly get their wishes and struggle to forget about the wishes they had made.  The story then shifts ahead twenty-five years, where the four former friends begin seeing their individual worlds fall apart, and it is Peter who theorizes that they are finally paying for the wishes they regretted making in their youth.  Jimmy's wife is seriously hurt, Robin's mother makes her life unbearable by making all kinds of accusations about her while her medical practice drops off due to accusations of peddling drugs, Steve's business takes a nose dive, and Peter finds himself haunted by the brother of a girl he tries to help in his capacity as a social worker.  Each person is eventually compelled to do something out of his/her character and inherently wrong, thinking that it will satisfy the debt they owe for the past.<br />This is actually a pretty enjoyable novel, even though it is not altogether original in its theme.  It took a while for me to get a handle on the characters because the introductory pages about their youths quickly changed to accounts of their adult lives, introducing new secondary characters such as spouses and children.  One thing Campbell excels at is creating exasperating, needy characters who sap the energy out of those trying to care for them.  Robin's mother is almost unbearable in her dementia and interference in her daughter's life, and for this reason I felt a stronger connection with Robin than with the three male characters at the heart of the story.  Jimmy's children, on the other hand, seemed somewhat unreal and never came across as more than shadows of themselves.<br />The horror content here is pretty low, really.  Peter is haunted by images such as that of his dead grandmother, whose whispers to him in the dark can be a tad unnerving, but the other characters dealt with thoroughly real-world problems.  Personally, I would have welcomed just a little more information about the nature of the original letter behind everything that happened; Campbell's final revelation about its source was a little confusing, but this may be a good thing because otherwise it might have impressed me as somewhat trite in nature.  Overall, I found Obsession a rather enjoyable read.  Campbell is an unquestionably skilled writer with a unique voice.  Just don't pick this up expecting to be terrified or treated to some kind of Faustian tale of sin and punishment.  Campbell's fictional horror is taken from real life for the most part, and that is one of the reasons why he is often deservedly hailed as a master craftsman of psychological horror.me to get a handle on the characters because the introductory pages about their youths quickly changed to accounts of their adult lives, introducing new secondary characters such as spouses and children.  One thing Campbell excels at is creating exasperating, needy characters who sap the energy out of those trying to care for them.  Robin's mother is almost unbearable in her dementia and interference in her daughter's life, and for this reason I felt a stronger connection with Robin than with the three male characters at the heart of the story.  Jimmy's children, on the other hand, seemed somewhat unreal and never came across as more than shadows of themselves.  <br />The horror content here is pretty low, really.  Peter is haunted by images such as that of his dead grandmother, whose whispers to him in the dark can be a tad unnerving, but the other characters dealt with thoroughly real-world problems.  Personally, I would have welcomed just a little more information about the nature of the original letter behind everything that happened; Campbell's final revelation about its source was a little confusing, but this may be a good thing because otherwise it might have impressed me as somewhat trite in nature.  Overall, I found Obsession a rather enjoyable read.  Campbell is an unquestionably skilled writer with a unique voice.  Just don't pick this up expecting to be terrified or treated to some kind of Faustian tale of sin and punishment.  Campbell's fictional horror is taken from real life for the most part, and that is one of the reasons why he is often deservedly hailed as a master craftsman of psychological horror.	2003-01-13
1270805:US	53016962	R1G9UCBF0V7Z3N	0441002846	232264731	The Engines of God	Books	4	33	43	N	N	Seek us by the light of the horgon's eye	I hold Jack McDevitt's writing in high regard and always enjoy his science fiction epics a great deal.  While his writing has become somewhat formulaic, The Engines of God provides further proof that the man knows how to tell a good story.  This novel is the first to feature renowned pilot Priscilla Hutchinson (\\"Hutch\\"), a character who has been involved in more grand missions and suffered some of the most globally cursed misfortunes of any character in the universe.  This story is built around the mysterious Monument Makers.  Saturn's moon Iapetus houses the first such monument discovered by mankind, a mysterious, winged ice sculpture bearing an indecipherable inscription; its existence fuels the search for more monuments, of which a good dozen are located throughout the galaxy.  Following in the footsteps of the unknown cosmic entities is as close as mankind has come to interacting with intelligent life elsewhere.  On earth, the ecology has progressed beyond the point of no return, and man is looking outward for new earths to be populated.  One possible site is Quaraqua, whose civilization has already collapsed.  The Academy struggles to learn all they can about this society underneath the waters of the planet at a site dubbed the Temple of the Winds.  Hutch is sent to evacuate the scientists before a terraforming project destroys whatever priceless knowledge lies hidden in the watery depths.  For me, this first section of the book was the most exciting.  Afterwards, having detected a radio signal, Hutch and several others journey to a more distant system, following the path left by the Monument Makers.  They finally end up on yet a third planetary body seeking factual data on the mystical \\"engines of God\\" alluded to in alien scripts discovered and interpreted along the way.<br />For me, the plot started to collapse in on itself slightly in the second half of the book.  On moons orbiting the important sites they visit are huge, fake cities (dubbed Oz) laid out in obsessively straight lines and right angles which have suffered serious charring at times of planetary catastrophe from an unknown source.  Apparently, the inexplicable cosmic force they eventually get a look at has an innate attraction to linear geometries-this part of the story, which becomes very important toward the end, seemed a little ludicrous to me.  Another thing that bothers me is that, aside from Hutch, the other characters who survived until the end seemed to be the least important and inscrutable of the bunch.  McDevitt has no qualms about sacrificing major characters at any time and any way; it's refreshing to see an author do that, but it is sometimes slightly frustrating to finally get to know a character and then see him/her dispensed with rather arbitrarily.  This leads to another weakness in the novel.  I did not think the character development was very good, especially that of Hutch.  McDevitt always seems to want to add a touch of romance and smoldering desires to his books, and in this case it detracts from my admiration from Hutch.  She is a brave, heroic woman, yet she can't go on a mission anywhere in the universe, it seems, without at least one former or hopefully future love interest.  McDevitt just doesn't handle this type of emotional content well here, and it detracts somewhat from a great story.<br />I think this book made McDevitt a better writer.  The flaws that seem to stand out in this effort are much less prominent in his later novels.  I felt pretty good about this particular plot up until the fourth and final section; at that point, some of the science seemed to fall apart, and the ultimate conclusion comes off as somewhat improbable and anticlimactic.  Some of the decisions made on all sides along the way are incredibly criminal and oftentimes juvenile, and the same mistakes (such as the continued exploration of alien worlds with little or no weapons) have a way of repeating themselves over and over again.  I remained incapableof buying into the supposed purpose for the strangely hewn alien Oz sites, and since the final section's activity was based around a scientific interpretation of those sites' significance, the final pages left me somewhat nonplussed.  Flawed as this novel is, though, it is certainly a science fiction adventure worth taking.  Hutch is a fascinating character whose richness does not really come through in these pages as it does in the follow-up novels Deepsix and Chindi, but this is a more than worthy introduction to her noble character.  Sometimes I feel like McDevitt is taking me somewhere I have already visited with him in the past, but I am more than happy to follow him each and every time.ble of buying into the supposed purpose for the strangely hewn alien Oz sites, and since the final section's activity was based around a scientific interpretation of those sites' significance, the final pages left me somewhat nonplussed.  Flawed as this novel is, though, it is certainly a science fiction adventure worth taking.  Hutch is a fascinating character whose richness does not really come through in these pages as it does in the follow-up novels Deepsix and Chindi, but this is a more than worthy introduction to her noble character.  Sometimes I feel like McDevitt is taking me somewhere I have already visited with him in the past, but I am more than happy to follow him each and every time.	2003-01-12
1275696:US	53016962	R1SZS6UBMETW21	006102063X	51458965	Moving Pictures	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hooray for Holy Wood	Moving Pictures is a delightful farce that introduces us to some of the Discworld's most interesting citizens.  The evil forces of Holy Wood have lain buried under the sand for countless generations, but then, in the kind of luck typical of life on the Discworld, the guardian is rendered incapable of guarding the power.  As the non-wizard magic of Holy Wood quickly escapes from its timeless sleep, inhabitants from all over the Discworld find themselves drawn to the spot out in the middle of nowhere, and they all want to be a part of the new moving pictures (or clickies) business.  The alchemists delight in sidestepping the authority of wizards by coming up with some non-wizard magic of their own.  To make a clickie, you just need a box full of little imps, and when you turn the handle the imps draw what they see in front of them, and they do it very quickly because there are whips connected to the turning handle.  Most people have a hard time figuring out just what these clickies are and how they work, but the citizens of Ankh-Morpork instantly fall in love with them, lining up in droves for the chance to see little five-minute long, soundless clickies of historical and educational interests-at first.  Then none other than Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler, famed salesmen of sausage in a bun and other pseudo-culinary tidbits (whose fame comes from the fact that he can actually sell his sausages in a bun to people on more than one occasion) gets the calling, basically takes over the whole business, and starts making epics filled with danger and fighting and romance, some of them taking the better part of a whole day to film.  The milkmaid Ginger and Victor Tugelbend (a student wizard who is generally acknowledged to be the laziest person on the Discworld) find themselves the leading lady and man of cinema and they are the first to figure out that something is terribly wrong in Holy Wood.  Holy Wood magic is not really real, and what it is actually doing is wearing away the barrier between reality, always in rather short supply on the Discworld, and the Dungeon Dimensions, where all kinds of terrible entities sit waiting to come in.  The first person to really figure out the danger is not a person at all, but rather Gaspode the Wonder Dog (not to be confused with the ingratiatingly obedient and thus wildly popular Laddie the Wonder Dog).  He's a mangy little mutt of a dog really, but he does something most dogs can't do-he talks.  He talks a lot, grumbling about life as a talking dog and constantly warning Victor about all the \\"boding\\" going on up on the hill.  Well, things all come to a head when Dibbler makes the most lavish moving picture ever, Discworld's version of Gone With the Wind, and the evil that Victor, Ginger, Gaspode, and the Librarian must ultimately contest is a Lovecraftian being from the outside, with all kinds of tentacles and other nasty bits.<br />There are more unforgettable characters in this novel than I can describe here.  For me, though, the senior wizards pretty much steal the show.  After seeing a poster of the scantily-clad Ginger's newest and biggest movie, they decide that they need to find out what all this clickies nonsense is about.  Of course, they can't let anyone know they are wizards so they come up with the brilliant idea of putting wire in their beards to make them look like fake beards (ingenious, really, in my opinion).  A special delight is old Windle Poons; he may be the oldest, most deaf wizard still alive, but he behaves quite like a youngster when he goes out on the town.  This tenth book in the Discworld series sorts of takes the reader in a new direction, centering on brand new characters but incorporating a few familiar faces that manage to keep things lively from start to finish.  Looking back, it may have dragged a little in the middle, and the ending wasn't overly spectacular, but it was a pure joy to read.  There is wit galore here but not too much satire, making this a fairly carefree book to be read strictly for the pleasure of it.  There are numerous references to popular films, and I was really delighted to see Pratchett give the horrors from the Dungeon Dimensions an obvious Cthulhuian cast.  Moving Pictures would be a great book with which to introduce yourself to the Discworld universe; you can enjoy it immensely without having read the previous nine books, and there are laughs to be found on every single page.free book to be read strictly for the pleasure of it.  There are numerous references to popular films, and I was really delighted to see Pratchett give the horrors from the Dungeon Dimensions an obvious Cthulhuian cast.  Moving Pictures would be a great book with which to introduce yourself to the Discworld universe; you can enjoy it immensely without having read the previous nine books, and there are laughs to be found on every single page.	2003-01-08
1280204:US	53016962	R2OCD1ZT95XK6W	0812516583	619077696	The Face That Must Die	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Quite a uniquely disturbing book of horror	The Face That Must Die is rather a disturbing read.  Ramsey Campbell gives us a look inside the tortured mind of a killer, one who evoked a number of different emotions from me as the story progressed.  The man Horridge is a sad, unhappy soul who has pretty much lost everything he once had, including his old home.  He now lives in a section of cheap tenements which he regards as a concrete prison.  His memories are full of tragic experiences, but the unpleasantness of what has already happened pales in comparison to the increasingly paranoid thoughts running through his disturbed mind.  He believes that everyone is out to get him, and he is particularly suspicious of foreigners and gay men.  The story begins with the backdrop of a couple of ghastly murders of gay men, and Horridge is convinced he has seen the killer.  After a close encounter with the supposed murderer, he sets out to harass the man and thereby protect his own safety by letting him know that he is on to him.  As his fears increase, he takes increasingly bold actions that his poor mind tells him are right and just.  Simultaneous to his story we have a running commentary on the dysfunctional life of a husband and wife living in the same building as the man Horridge believes is the murderer.  As is so often the case with Ramsey Campbell's characters, it is almost impossible to like them, especially the drug addict husband.  Naturally, the paths of these main characters cross in the end to present the reader with a pretty effective conclusion to the novel.<br />The novel is not half as disturbing as Campbell's very personal introduction.  In \\"At the Back of My Mind: A Guided Tour,\\" he offers up an autobiographical account of his unusual childhood and the mental derangement of his mother.  He basically never saw his father growing up, although he still lived in the same house with him.  On her own, his mother basically lost her mind.  Campbell describes her overwhelming fears: strangers would appear in her home and stare at her, she would never change clothes because she claimed someone stole her good clothes and replaced them with rags, her neighbors were trying to poison her, she became convinced that her home was not her own but another one that looked just like it, etc.  Campbell acknowledges that his account sounds rather cold-hearted, but he felt it was important to say all these things; it is an attempt on his part to somehow describe why he writes the things he writes.  It certainly does make the character of Horridge have much more of an impact on the reader, for he exhibits the same kinds of paranoia that Campbell's mother did.<br />The book also contains a strange little short story called \\"I Am It and It is I,\\" which is a little disturbing in itself, but the meat of this literary meal of horror is to be found in the foreword and in the novel itself.  The Face That Must Die is a fascinating read that, despite the typically bleak setting and troubled characters that seem to always fill Campbell's novels, is sure to set up permanent housekeeping in one of the darker corners of your mind.  I can't say I've ever read another horror novel quite like this one.r home and stare at her, she would never change clothes because she claimed someone stole her good clothes and replaced them with rags, her neighbors were trying to poison her, she became convinced that her home was not her own but another one that looked just like it, etc.  Campbell acknowledges that his account sounds rather cold-hearted, but he felt it was important to say all these things; it is an attempt on his part to somehow describe why he writes the things he writes.  It certainly does make the character of Horridge have much more of an impact on the reader, for he exhibits the same kinds of paranoia that Campbell's mother did.  <br />The book also contains a strange little short story called \\"I Am It and It is I,\\" which is a little disturbing in itself, but the meat of this literary meal of horror is to be found in the foreword and in the novel itself.  The Face That Must Die is a fascinating read that, despite the typically bleak setting and troubled characters that seem to always fill Campbell's novels, is sure to set up permanent housekeeping in one of the darker corners of your mind.  I can't say I've ever read another horror novel quite like this one.	2003-01-05
1282579:US	53016962	R3C3UY8MV5ZMF4	0684190818	370496142	Ancient Images	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A work of deliciously atmospheric psychological horror	Ancient Images is a wonderful horror novel, more than making up for a few plot flaws with an incredible atmosphere which slowly pulls you further and further into the story.  The novel offers a terrific \\"hook\\" that many horror aficionados such as myself are almost powerless to resist: the search for a lost, almost mythical horror movie starring both Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff.  The film, Tower of Fear, has never been seen, and the rumors surrounding its filming speak of strange happenings and almost ghostly events which supposedly frightened many of the crew and cast so badly that no one even cared that the final product essentially disappeared from the face of the earth before anyone could see it.  Now, however, one professional movie buff (Graham) has found a copy after years of searching for it.  He invites his friend, film editor Sandy Allan, to see its unveiling at his apartment, but when Sandy arrives, the film is gone.  She is then horrified to see her friend jump from the roof of the adjacent building and plunge to his death.  When a pompous film critic derides her late friend's quest for a movie that he says never existed, Sandy sets herself the task of finding the movie and vindicating her friend's claims.  All she has to go on is a list of contacts Graham made in his search, consisting mainly of men who worked on the film in some capacity.  She travels all over the countryside trying to speak to these contacts, finding herself rebuffed by some but increasingly finding more and more evidence of the fear that still haunts the minds of the cast and crew 50 years after the film was made.  Her search eventually leads her to the town of Redfield, and it is in this much too idyllic town that Campbell paints his most masterful strokes, invoking an intense atmosphere of slowly growing, insidious terror that is almost Lovecraftian in its pervasive effect on both protagonist and reader.<br />The conclusion was not wholly satisfying, but it would have been almost impossible for it to achieve the explosiveness the increasingly compelling storyline seemed to beg for.  One thing I didn't like about the novel is Campbell's relentless description of all the creepy things Sandy kept telling herself she wasn't seeing.  She didn't see this in the field, the thing in the bushes couldn't have been real, the shadow of an impossibly thin man was not in the corner after all, something was making noise outside her room but the corridor was empty, etc.  These comments are crammed throughout the narrative from the very start; the fact that Campbell can still captivate the reader and wrap a shroud of unseen horror around him/her when it really comes time to get creepy says a lot about the power this author holds over words.  When Campbell is clicking, he can absorb you completely into the tale.  The scarecrow images Campbell populates the fields of northern England with become frightening visions, but the scene inside the huge old tower in Redfield stands above the pack in terms of the fear factor associated with this tale.<br />I would describe Ancient Images as deliciously creepy but not frightening or horrifying.  Campbell is one of the true masters of psychological horror, and he puts his skills to good use in these pages.  A couple of minor issues I had with the plot compel me to give the book only four stars, but the atmosphere of the novel is really quite impressive.  It was a pleasure to allow Ramsey Campbell inside my mind for the course of this gripping novel.t impossible for it to achieve the explosiveness the increasingly compelling storyline seemed to beg for.  One thing I didn't like about the novel is Campbell's relentless description of all the creepy things Sandy kept telling herself she wasn't seeing.  She didn't see this in the field, the thing in the bushes couldn't have been real, the shadow of an impossibly thin man was not in the corner after all, something was making noise outside her room but the corridor was empty, etc.  These comments are crammed throughout the narrative from the very start; the fact that Campbell can still captivate the reader and wrap a shroud of unseen horror around him/her when it really comes time to get creepy says a lot about the power this author holds over words.  When Campbell is clicking, he can absorb you completely into the tale.  The scarecrow images Campbell populates the fields of northern England with become frightening visions, but the scene inside the huge old tower in Redfield stands above the pack in terms of the fear factor associated with this tale.  <br />I would describe Ancient Images as deliciously creepy but not frightening or horrifying.  Campbell is one of the true masters of psychological horror, and he puts his skills to good use in these pages.  A couple of minor issues I had with the plot compel me to give the book only four stars, but the atmosphere of the novel is really quite impressive.  It was a pleasure to allow Ramsey Campbell inside my mind for the course of this gripping novel.	2003-01-03
1285643:US	53016962	R2ONR0W6AS2BNC	0672522365	456720245	The Doll Who Ate His Mother: A Novel of Modern Terror	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Unique but frustratingly bland and cold	Stephen King heaped praises on this, Ramsey Campbell's first published novel, and I have tried to discover what he saw in it; after two readings, I still can't warm up to this book.  Part of the problem is Campbell's prose style-his dearth of emotion makes the Liverpool setting of this drama even more colorless and empty than his characters.  King has said Campbell's characters see the world in much the same way that an addict on an LSD trip does-if so, it is a bad trip indeed.  I hate to keep citing King here, but one other thing he said about this novel that fits it perfectly is that some may feel as if Campbell has, instead of having written a novel, has grown one in a Petrie dish.  This is exactly how I feel about Campbell's writing.  These characters are not real at all; they are hollow husks of humanity blown aimlessly in the wind with no more than one or two ideas driving whatever they happen to do.  Even when the passionless author tries to take us inside their heads, it is impossible to connect to them because their very thought processes are both mechanical and somehow wrong.  I would sometimes get lost in the middle of a paragraph because Campbell would throw in a sentence or observation that made entirely no sense at all.  Often, I felt as if sentences must have been left out, or even more frustrating, reassembled so that he was commenting on things before he even described them.  I know many readers hold Campbell in high regard, and I will not attempt to judge his art based on this one novel, but this novel just did not work for me.<br />Campbell supposedly attempted to create a new type of horror story here.  It's certainly unique; I know of no other writer I could compare Campbell to in terms of his writing style.  The monster here, though, is basically just a cannibalistic, irrational killer of the type we have seen before.  I grant you the story starts out promisingly, with Clare Frayn's brother Rob being killed in an accident and having his arm taken from the scene by an unknown young man.  Clare, by the way, has a disturbing bevy of emotional problems all her own.  Then a writer comes to town with the idea of writing a book on this \\"cannibal,\\" claiming to have known him back in school.  He, Clare, a fellow whose mother was a victim of the killer, and a weird actor who says his cat was killed (and presumably eaten) by the killer set out to find him.  This task is made much easier by the fact that the writer knows who it is (based on some pretty shotty evidence, I say).  The only gripping part of the narrative, in my opinion, comes when the group locates the killer's grandmother and hears from her lips some of the details of the psycho's birth.  The identity of the monster comes as no surprise whatsoever, and the conclusion is basically just weird.  Personally, I just don't see a lot of merit in this novel, and it fails to produce any kind of monster different from what I have seen before-it's just harder to see through Campbell's murky prose.aken from the scene by an unknown young man.  Clare, by the way, has a disturbing bevy of emotional problems all her own.  Then a writer comes to town with the idea of writing a book on this \\"cannibal,\\" claiming to have known him back in school.  He, Clare, a fellow whose mother was a victim of the killer, and a weird actor who says his cat was killed (and presumably eaten) by the killer set out to find him.  This task is made much easier by the fact that the writer knows who it is (based on some pretty shotty evidence, I say).  The only gripping part of the narrative, in my opinion, comes when the group locates the killer's grandmother and hears from her lips some of the details of the psycho's birth.  The identity of the monster comes as no surprise whatsoever, and the conclusion is basically just weird.  Personally, I just don't see a lot of merit in this novel, and it fails to produce any kind of monster different from what I have seen before-it's just harder to see through Campbell's murky prose.	2003-01-01
1286850:US	53016962	R38B29I0GHD9IU	0380821214	372532263	Eric	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Discworld anomaly	When last we left the inept wizard Rincewind (way back in Sourcery, the fifth Discworld novel) he was trapped in the Dungeon Dimensions.  He returns quite unexpectedly to the real world at the behest of the unique planet's only demon hacker Eric, who also happens to be a twelve-year-old kid.  Having conjured a demon to grant him whatever he desired, Eric is rather disappointed to find that the \\"demon\\" Rincewind cannot really do anything at all except give lessons in how to run away from danger.  All Eric wants is to rule the world, meet the most beautiful woman to have ever lived, and to live forever.  Rincewind insists that he can't just snap his fingers and grant wishes, but said finger snapping miraculously takes him, Eric, and (always lagging behind) the Luggage to the land of the Tezumens where Eric is hailed as a god (pity the Tezumens hate their god so much).  Later they wind up in ancient Tsort during the climax of the great war with the Ephebians; here Eric meets the world's most beautiful woman and is not impressed, while Rincewind finds an ancient ancestor pursuing the art of war without having to fight or creating a fuss.  Next stop is the very creation of the Discworld itself, complete with creator-if you want to live forever, after all, you have to start at the beginning.  The journey is far from complete, though, until Rincewind and Eric make their way to Hades, a land suffering (or not suffering, to be precise) under the micro-management of the new King Astfgl.  Finally, we find out what has really been going on all along, and Rincewind and Eric try to find a way to get back home.<br />Eric is a play on the Faust concept; you can tell because the word Faust is crossed out and replaced with Eric right there on the cover of the book.  Conjure a demon, demand your heart's desire, that sort of thing.  It is really an unusual Discworld novel.  It is short for one thing, less than half the length of most in the series, the kid Eric is about the only child one ever finds anywhere in the Discworld and is annoying enough for all the ones we don't see, and, despite his constant troubles, we really don't see very much of Rincewind's back gradually fading away from us as he runs from danger.  The book isn't that bad, really-the story is pretty good once you grasp all of it, there's an entertainingly irritable parrot that makes up for his small vocabulary by referring to things as wossname all the time, and we get a very revealing look at the Discworld's realm of eternal punishment.  Still, Eric is just not fulfilling and never strikes a strong chord with the reader.  I view it as quite the Discworld anomaly.  Just because it isn't as good as Pratchett's other novels does not mean it is not funny, witty, and enjoyable, though.d one ever finds anywhere in the Discworld and is annoying enough for all the ones we don't see, and, despite his constant troubles, we really don't see very much of Rincewind's back gradually fading away from us as he runs from danger.  The book isn't that bad, really-the story is pretty good once you grasp all of it, there's an entertainingly irritable parrot that makes up for his small vocabulary by referring to things as wossname all the time, and we get a very revealing look at the Discworld's realm of eternal punishment.  Still, Eric is just not fulfilling and never strikes a strong chord with the reader.  I view it as quite the Discworld anomaly.  Just because it isn't as good as Pratchett's other novels does not mean it is not funny, witty, and enjoyable, though.	2002-12-31
1288579:US	53016962	RKHWSUISXLT05	0061020648	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	5	58	62	N	N	The people united can never be ignited!	Discworld really doesn't get any better or funnier than this.  For the first time in the series, we get an extended up-close view of life in the remarkable city of Anhk-Morpork.  We are introduced to such wonderful characters as Captain Vimes of the City Watch and his singular subordinates Nobby, Colon, and the giant dwarf (adopted) Carrot; the formidable Lady Ramkin; and Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler.  The remarkable fashion in which the Patrician Lord Vetinari runs the city is explained in some detail, we begin to really get to know the Librarian of Unseen University (who was of course turned into an orangutan some type back as a result of a magical accident), and Pratchett gives us a basic rundown on the theory of L-Space under which all libraries work and are magically connected.<br />Everyone knows that dragons do not exist, not the type of giant mythical creatures who fly around breathing fire all over the place.  Thus, it comes as something of a surprise to people when Anhk-Morpork begins experiencing incidents of the body-melting variety; such a perpetrator can only be dismissed for so long as a giant wading bird, however.  It seems that a group of unimportant have-nots has been wooed into a secret society bent on teaching the haves a lesson or two by magically summoning a dragon to carry out their wishes.  Naturally, things get out of hand, and the dragon finds a way to establish permanent residence in reality.  Declaring himself king of the city, preparations are made to turn over treasure and begin sacrificing maidens.  The City Watch has long been nothing but a joke in town, especially after the establishment of proper guilds virtually eliminated illegal illegality, and Captain Vimes and his men have no desire to enforce the law anyway, unless enforcing the law somehow involves drinking copious amounts of alcohol.  Young Carrot (who has just found out he is a human and not a dwarf after all, all six and a half feet of him) amazingly volunteers for the Watch and actually tries to enforce the law, thereby causing a bit of controversy at first.  Then the dragon business comes along, and the City Watchmen take it upon themselves to try and overcome the wossname since no one else, aside from the noble swamp-dragon enthusiast Lady Ramkin, seems to offer much resistance at all (even when extolled by Sergeant Colon's rally cry \\"The people united can never be ignited!\\").  Of course, the odds of solving such a crisis as this are a million-to-one; odds of a million-to-one guarantees success, as everyone knows, and the problem comes in making sure your plan's chance of success does not miss the mark; it can't be a thousand-to-one or even 999,999-to-one odds because you've never heard of anyone succeeding with those odds against them, now have you?<br />There is so much that goes to the very heart of the Discworld in this novel that one cannot begin to list it all here.  Captain Vimes and the City Watch members are some of the most human characters in the series, and they also happen to be very funny.  Virtually everything about this book is terribly funny.  The only question I have about this novel is how in the world the inept wizard Rincewind managed to be completely absent from such a dangerous situation as the one represented by the dragon to the city.  It's really best that he does not appear in these pages, though, as it would take something away from the incredible appeal of the City Watch characters.  If ever a Discworld novel were required reading, it would have to be Guards! Guards!  If you can't enjoy this book, then Pratchett's Discworld series is not for you.h and actually tries to enforce the law, thereby causing a bit of controversy at first.  Then the dragon business comes along, and the City Watchmen take it upon themselves to try and overcome the wossname since no one else, aside from the noble swamp-dragon enthusiast Lady Ramkin, seems to offer much resistance at all (even when extolled by Sergeant Colon's rally cry \\"The people united can never be ignited!\\").  Of course, the odds of solving such a crisis as this are a million-to-one; odds of a million-to-one guarantees success, as everyone knows, and the problem comes in making sure your plan's chance of success does not miss the mark; it can't be a thousand-to-one or even 999,999-to-one odds because you've never heard of anyone succeeding with those odds against them, now have you?<br />There is so much that goes to the very heart of the Discworld in this novel that one cannot begin to list it all here.  Captain Vimes and the City Watch members are some of the most human characters in the series, and they also happen to be very funny.  Virtually everything about this book is terribly funny.  The only question I have about this novel is how in the world the inept wizard Rincewind managed to be completely absent from such a dangerous situation as the one represented by the dragon to the city.  It's really best that he does not appear in these pages, though, as it would take something away from the incredible appeal of the City Watch characters.  If ever a Discworld novel were required reading, it would have to be Guards! Guards!  If you can't enjoy this book, then Pratchett's Discworld series is not for you.	2002-12-30
1292565:US	53016962	R1196H2V5A844Z	0061020656	226014260	Pyramids (Discworld Book 7)	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Pyramid power--it's not just for razors any more	Pyramids represents something of a detour in Pratchett's Discworld series.  The principal action takes place in the heretofore unfamiliar land of Djelibeybi, located in northern Klatch across the Circle Sea from Anhk-Morpork.  This is a unique realm of the Discworld, two miles wide and 150 miles long.  It is often referred to as the Old Kingdom for a very good reason-it is quite old, over 7000 years old in fact.  It is a desert land whose pharaohs are obsessed with pyramid-building; besides bankrupting the country, this obsession has also had the unforeseen consequence of keeping the country firmly entrenched in the past.  Pyramids, you see, slow down time, and there are so many pyramids in Djelibeybi now that new time is continually sucked in by them and released nightly in flares.  In a land where the same time is reused daily, it comes as something of a surprise when the pharaoh Teppicymon XXVII decides to send his son Teppic outside of the kingdom to get his education.  Just after becoming a certified, guild-approved assassin, young Teppic is called upon to return home after his father suffers the unfortunate consequences attendant upon thinking he can fly.  Three months into his reign, he basically loses his kingdom-literally.  The Great Pyramid being built for his father's mummy is much too big, and eventually it causes the temporal dislocation of Djelibeybi from the face of the Discworld.  Accompanied by the handmaiden Ptraci, whom he rescued from certain death, and a camel whose name would be edited were I to state it here, Teppic must find a way to restore his kingdom back to its proper place and time above the ground.  The ordeal is only complicated further by the fact that all of the land's dead and thousands of gods suddenly have appeared in person, acting as if they own the place.<br />While its unusual setting and the fact that it features characters seen here and nowhere else makes this novel seem a little different from its fellow Discworld chronicles, I must admit it is quite an enjoyable read.  Pratchett ingeniously incorporates ideas and practices from ancient Egypt and ancient Greece: pyramids, mummification, Greek philosophers, the Trojan War and its Horse in particular, etc.  Teppic is an enjoyable enough character, but we never seem to delve deeply enough to understand him properly.  I loved the brash handmaiden Ptraci and her fearless contempt for tradition.  All of the dead pharaohs are quite funny, particularly in terms of their opinions on an afterlife spent shut inside a tomb inside an escape-proof pyramid.  The subplot featuring the history of warfare between two neighboring kingdoms really helps make this novel a true winner.  Perhaps the most interesting thing to be found in these pages, though, is the actual identity and thought processes of Discworld's greatest mathematician.  There is also much to amuse and delight fans of temporal dislocation theories-the pyramid builders make many incredible discoveries in the process of building the Great Pyramid, not the least of which is a means of utilizing the structure's innate time loop to call forth several different selves to help make sure the job is finished in the allotted time.<br />Even though this book is funny and satisfying enough to stand on its own, I would not start my Discworld reading with it.  Aside from Teppic's time spent in Anhk-Morpork learning to be an assassin, the action takes place outside the much more familiar lands we encounter time and again in the other novels.  Of course, Pratchett devotees will want to read it for the very reason that it acquaints us with a strange, otherwise unfamiliar section of the Discworld.les, I must admit it is quite an enjoyable read.  Pratchett ingeniously incorporates ideas and practices from ancient Egypt and ancient Greece: pyramids, mummification, Greek philosophers, the Trojan War and its Horse in particular, etc.  Teppic is an enjoyable enough character, but we never seem to delve deeply enough to understand him properly.  I loved the brash handmaiden Ptraci and her fearless contempt for tradition.  All of the dead pharaohs are quite funny, particularly in terms of their opinions on an afterlife spent shut inside a tomb inside an escape-proof pyramid.  The subplot featuring the history of warfare between two neighboring kingdoms really helps make this novel a true winner.  Perhaps the most interesting thing to be found in these pages, though, is the actual identity and thought processes of Discworld's greatest mathematician.  There is also much to amuse and delight fans of temporal dislocation theories-the pyramid builders make many incredible discoveries in the process of building the Great Pyramid, not the least of which is a means of utilizing the structure's innate time loop to call forth several different selves to help make sure the job is finished in the allotted time.  <br />Even though this book is funny and satisfying enough to stand on its own, I would not start my Discworld reading with it.  Aside from Teppic's time spent in Anhk-Morpork learning to be an assassin, the action takes place outside the much more familiar lands we encounter time and again in the other novels.  Of course, Pratchett devotees will want to read it for the very reason that it acquaints us with a strange, otherwise unfamiliar section of the Discworld.	2002-12-27
1293269:US	53016962	R3AIKFAJGK7IQT	0449006522	260503270	The Manhattan Hunt Club	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very different type of thriller from John Saul	The Manhattan Hunt Club is a much different read than all of the other John Saul books I have read.  There's no family curse or haunted youths to be found here; rather, this is a book of gritty, gripping realism.  I admit it took me a while to get completely wrapped up in the story, but the final hundred pages had me captivated.  The book starts with young college student Jeff Converse trying to help a lady being attacked in the subway; his good Samaritanism earns him a conviction of attempted murder as the victim fingers him as her assailant.  Then a freak accident as he is being transferred to another prison finds him taken down into the unseen depths below the New York subway system, thrown together with a bona fide murderer, and forced to play a game he can barely comprehend: you win, you go free; you lose, you die.  So begins a terrifying ordeal pitting Jeff and his new-found friend against a team of vigilantes straight out of The Most Dangerous Game.  Meanwhile, Jeff's father and his \\"uptown girl\\" girlfriend refuse to believe the evidence given to them that Jeff in fact died in the traffic accident.  They eventually go into the tunnels themselves in search of Jeff, and the convergence of all the characters takes place in an exciting climax of action.<br />There are some surprises in these pages, and a feeling of justice that sometimes does not find its way into Saul's fiction.  The makeup of the Manhattan Hunt Club and the ideas behind its formation are disturbing yet frighteningly plausible.  Saul does an admirably fine job of humanizing the homeless in all of their guises; the characters we meet underneath the subway tunnels are not all bad or shiftless, yet even some of the best of them, through their mute cooperation with \\"the game,\\" cause one to face some troubling propositions and wonder if, in their shoes, he might do the same thing.  The most enlightening character here is Jinx, a young girl who found a home beneath the city after running away from her mother's abusive boyfriend; despite the bad luck life has sent her way, she retains her dignity and bravely seeks to do the right thing when she does not have to get involved at all.<br />One is struck by the fact that much of this story could in fact be true to life.  There are people living the kind of life described herein, but John Saul would seem to have done such unfortunate folks a great service.  He brings out the humanity of these people, making the point that they are not all druggies and addicts but are all too often very human characters forced to live as best they can.  Perhaps the motivation fueling some of the true villains here, the members of \\"the club,\\" is not strongly enough developed, and the character of Jeff's deeply religious mother is somehow forgotten along the way, but The Manhattan Hunt Club is an increasingly compelling read that will take you into the filthy subterranean tunnels alongside its characters and very likely change you in some way by the time you finally manage to find the light at the end of the tunnel.er mother's abusive boyfriend; despite the bad luck life has sent her way, she retains her dignity and bravely seeks to do the right thing when she does not have to get involved at all.  <br />One is struck by the fact that much of this story could in fact be true to life.  There are people living the kind of life described herein, but John Saul would seem to have done such unfortunate folks a great service.  He brings out the humanity of these people, making the point that they are not all druggies and addicts but are all too often very human characters forced to live as best they can.  Perhaps the motivation fueling some of the true villains here, the members of \\"the club,\\" is not strongly enough developed, and the character of Jeff's deeply religious mother is somehow forgotten along the way, but The Manhattan Hunt Club is an increasingly compelling read that will take you into the filthy subterranean tunnels alongside its characters and very likely change you in some way by the time you finally manage to find the light at the end of the tunnel.	2002-12-26
1293642:US	53016962	R2FPNL9NS6Y48Q	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	5	62	64	N	N	All the Disc's a stage--and the players are hilarious	Although we first met Granny Weatherwax in Equal Rites, Wyrd Sisters gives us the three witches-Granny, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat Garlick-in all of their glory. These are my favorite characters in the Discworld, and loud peals of laughter are always to be found when this remarkable coven of witches gets together.  The story itself is a thoroughly Pratchett-like concoction of Shakespeare, fairy tales, satire, and infinitely rich comedy.  The king of Lancre, much to his surprise, has been murdered by the Macbethian Duke Felmet, and he is not at all happy about this.  No one, in fact, is happy, including the very kingdom itself, which physically shows its rage at having a new king who despises his own royal domain.  The witches are also not happy, as the Duke works continually to discredit them among the people-Granny Weatherwax just doesn't have any truck with that at all.  Of course, in a story such as this, there has to be a long-lost child of the murdered king who will eventually come back to right the wrongs done his father and dethrone the regal malefactor-or something along those lines, anyway.  Things are never quite that simple on the Discworld.<br />The antics of the witches are hilarious.  Granny Weatherwax is a stalwart personality who never admits she might be wrong or that there is something she is not familiar with.  Nanny Ogg is a rather worldly witch who enjoys nothing more than getting blasted and drunkenly singing about hedgehogs or the fact that a wizard's staff has a knob on the end.  Then there is young Magrat, quite plain in appearance, who believes the traditional ways of witchcraft are best and whose sometimes nave, positive nature often conflicts with the thinking of her older cohorts; you have to love her, really.  Her romance of sorts with the shy king's Fool is a rather comical yet sweet subplot to the novel.  My favorite scene, one of the funniest I have ever read, concerns the witches' trip to the theatre; Granny has no understanding of theatre or drama, and her increasingly raucous reactions to the performance she sees is not to be missed.<br />You don't have to know Shakespeare intimately in order to enjoy the numerous allusions to his work, particularly Macbeth and Hamlet, but I decided to read those two plays before reading Wyrd Sisters in order to make sure I caught as much of the comedy as possible.  From the attempts of the duke to wash the blood from his hands to the manipulations of the duchess to the performance of a drama in order to call out the murderous king for his treacherous deeds, this fictional cauldron is swimming with Shakespearean ingredients.  It's remarkably witty on a number of levels, yet the constant humor does nothing to take away from an intriguing and not wholly predictable plot.  Even if you don't agree that the three \\"wyrd sisters\\" are the funniest and most remarkable characters inhabiting the Discworld, I do not see how you could possibly fail to find much enjoyment and humor in this novel.atre or drama, and her increasingly raucous reactions to the performance she sees is not to be missed.  <br />You don't have to know Shakespeare intimately in order to enjoy the numerous allusions to his work, particularly Macbeth and Hamlet, but I decided to read those two plays before reading Wyrd Sisters in order to make sure I caught as much of the comedy as possible.  From the attempts of the duke to wash the blood from his hands to the manipulations of the duchess to the performance of a drama in order to call out the murderous king for his treacherous deeds, this fictional cauldron is swimming with Shakespearean ingredients.  It's remarkably witty on a number of levels, yet the constant humor does nothing to take away from an intriguing and not wholly predictable plot.  Even if you don't agree that the three \\"wyrd sisters\\" are the funniest and most remarkable characters inhabiting the Discworld, I do not see how you could possibly fail to find much enjoyment and humor in this novel.	2002-12-26
1294686:US	53016962	RMCLT0K3J36PU	0345418778	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	59	66	N	N	Mostly funny, but rather grim in the end	It is impossible not to have some mixed feelings about this novel.  It does stand as a return to the wild frivolity and cuttingly biting humor of the first three books, yet it is certainly less than upbeat, all things considered.  Despite all kinds of evidence to the contrary, I always had the feeling that things would work out, even for poor Arthur Dent-the universe might not make a bit of sense, of course, but these characters I love so much would ultimately at least find a sense of peace if not happiness in some forgotten corner of the cosmos.  It's something of a downer to find out this is not really the case.  Two characters who very much made up the heart of the series for me, Marvin and Zaphod, are not even present in these pages.  Then you have Fenchurch from the fourth book, a character I really came to love, thrown out of the saga like so much spoiled Perfectly Normal Beast meat.  It's nice to have Trillian back, albeit in a couple of transdimensional forms, as well as Ford and Arthur, but it's hard to say who the story is really about.  Arthur's new life as a Sandwich Maker on a remote planet his ship crashed on is rather pitiful but totally Dent-like.  Ford's attempts to undo the tragic consequences of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy company having been taken over by unscrupulous business men is interesting.  The introduction of a Tricia McMillan who did not leave the party with Zaphod because she decided to go back for her handbag ends up just muddying the waters of the fictional time stream.  Then there is Random, the biological daughter of Arthur Dent by Trillian; she is even more mixed up and generally confused about life than the father she only meets as a teenager dumped by her too-busy mother.  It might be said that this is Random's story, but all she really does is provide the means by which the principal actors Ford, Arthur, and Trillian are eventually brought together for the final conclusion.<br />Adams did do an impressive job of bringing things together in the end-characters and situations not only from this novel itself but from the start of the whole Hitchhiker's saga (think Vogons).  Why a pesky number of loose threads were allowed to hang out, though, while so much work went into resolving other looming storylines, is beyond me and did much to mar the satisfaction I got from the rather abrupt, unfortunate conclusion.  I am particularly bothered by the fact that Fenchurch, a character important enough for Adams to have written the entire fourth novel about, is summarily dismissed with little thought and even little grief from Arthur Dent himself.  I should not complain about the way Adams chose to end this delightful series of novels of his own imaginative creation, yet I cannot help feeling disappointed if not a little cheated by the way in which everything ended.  All in all, while I did enjoy parts of this book immensely, I would rather have ended things with the happy note of So Long, and Thanks For all the Fish, and be left free to imagine what kinds of messes Ford and Arthur might be getting themselves into somewhere in the universe and wondering what really ever happened to Trillian and Zaphod.g things together in the end-characters and situations not only from this novel itself but from the start of the whole Hitchhiker's saga (think Vogons).  Why a pesky number of loose threads were allowed to hang out, though, while so much work went into resolving other looming storylines, is beyond me and did much to mar the satisfaction I got from the rather abrupt, unfortunate conclusion.  I am particularly bothered by the fact that Fenchurch, a character important enough for Adams to have written the entire fourth novel about, is summarily dismissed with little thought and even little grief from Arthur Dent himself.  I should not complain about the way Adams chose to end this delightful series of novels of his own imaginative creation, yet I cannot help feeling disappointed if not a little cheated by the way in which everything ended.  All in all, while I did enjoy parts of this book immensely, I would rather have ended things with the happy note of So Long, and Thanks For all the Fish, and be left free to imagine what kinds of messes Ford and Arthur might be getting themselves into somewhere in the universe and wondering what really ever happened to Trillian and Zaphod.	2002-12-24
1295379:US	53016962	R3QI4BA1RONVXI	0192836978	40037118	The Blithedale Romance (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	22	26	N	N	An impassioned human drama	The Blithedale Romance is a somewhat dark, depressing tale of idealism gone awry and of friendship and love torn asunder by private ambitions.  The romance of these pages is not what many modern readers may expect to find here; there is no penultimate consummation of love among these characters, nor is there much happiness indeed to be discerned from the complexity of their relations one with another.  Much has been made of Hawthorne's own temporary residence at the utopian-minded Brook Farm a decade previous to the publication of this work; it is true that some of the experiences derive from his own memories, but Hawthorne went to great pains to make clear that this is a romance first and foremost and bears no direct relation to the experiences of his own life.  Those who would read this novel in an attempt to get at Hawthorne's true feelings about the utopian socialism he flirted with and watched from afar during his pivotal creative years may well miss out on the thought-provoking treatment of such wonderfully literary, fascinating characters as Hollingsworth the idealistic philanthropist, Zenobia the modern feminist reformer with a fatal flaw inimical to her self-realization, and the sweet and frail Priscilla.<br />The first-person narrator of this story is Miles Coverdale, a man difficult to come to terms with.  He joins with the pioneers behind the utopian farming community of Blithedale and truly takes heart in the possibility of this new kind of communitarian life offering mankind a chance to live lives of purpose and fulfillment, yet at times he steps outside of events and seems to view the whole experience as a study in human character and a learning experience to which his heart-strings are only loosely bound.  The drama that unfolds is told in his perspective only, and one can never know how much he failed to discern or the degree to which his own conjectures are correct.  His eventual castigation of Hollingsworth cannot be doubted, however.  This rather unfeeling man joins the community on the hidden pretext of acquiring the means for fulfilling his overriding utopian dream of creating an edifice for the reformation of criminals.  This dream takes over his life, Coverdale observes, and his once-noble philanthropic passion morphs him into an overzealous, unfeeling man who brings ruin upon those who were once his friends.  It is really Zenobia, though, upon which the novel feeds.  She is a fascinating woman of means who makes the Blithedale dream a reality, a bold reformer seeking a new equality for women in the world who ultimately, at Hawthorne's bidding, suffers the ignominious fate of the fragile spirit she seemed to have overcome.<br />This is not a novel that will immediately enthrall you in its clutches.  The first half of the novel is sometimes rather slow going, but I would urge you not to cast this book aside carelessly.  The final chapters sparkle with drama and human passion, and you find yourself suddenly immersed in this strange community of tragic friends-turned-foes.  You care deeply what happens to such once-noble spirits, and while you may not find joy in the tragic conclusion of the ill-fated social experiment of Blithedale, you will certainly find your soul stirred by the tragedy of unfolding events.unfeeling man joins the community on the hidden pretext of acquiring the means for fulfilling his overriding utopian dream of creating an edifice for the reformation of criminals.  This dream takes over his life, Coverdale observes, and his once-noble philanthropic passion morphs him into an overzealous, unfeeling man who brings ruin upon those who were once his friends.  It is really Zenobia, though, upon which the novel feeds.  She is a fascinating woman of means who makes the Blithedale dream a reality, a bold reformer seeking a new equality for women in the world who ultimately, at Hawthorne's bidding, suffers the ignominious fate of the fragile spirit she seemed to have overcome.<br />This is not a novel that will immediately enthrall you in its clutches.  The first half of the novel is sometimes rather slow going, but I would urge you not to cast this book aside carelessly.  The final chapters sparkle with drama and human passion, and you find yourself suddenly immersed in this strange community of tragic friends-turned-foes.  You care deeply what happens to such once-noble spirits, and while you may not find joy in the tragic conclusion of the ill-fated social experiment of Blithedale, you will certainly find your soul stirred by the tragedy of unfolding events.	2002-12-23
1296782:US	53016962	R1A9KWZL02N83L	0451526082	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Signet Classics)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	An intense human drama that transcends literature itself	The Scarlet Letter is truly one of literature's greatest triumphs, its characters and themes reverberating in our collective consciousness more than 150 years after its initial publication.  Few novels inspire as much contemplation and feeling on the part of the reader.  Hester Prynne, American fiction's first and foremost female heroine continues to haunt this world, inspiring a never-ending stream of scholarly debate.  Even in our less puritanical age, some doubtless see her as a villainously great temptress, but to me she is a remarkably brave hero indeed.  Her sin is known to all, and she never runs away from it, bearing the scarlet letter on her bosom bravely for all to see; she realizes the true measure of that sin, fretting constantly over the effects it will have on young Pearl, remaining steadfast in her beliefs while at the same time envisioning a new society where women and men can exist on more equal terms, free of the stultifyingly harsh punishments meted out on even the most repentant of souls by Puritanism.  She shows her noble spirit by refusing to name her partner in sin and goes so far as to allow the ruthless Roger Chillingworth to torment the man she loves deeply enough to protect him for all time.  Little Pearl is somewhat of an enigma, truly manifesting traits of both the imp and the little angel; her questions about the letter her mother wears and the minister who continually holds his hand against his heart reflect an insight that amazes this reader.  Chillingworth is a thoroughly black-hearted man; I can certainly understand the blow he sustained as a result of Hester's sin, but his actions and thirst for prolonged revenge on the so-called perpetrator of the wrong he suffered can only be described as roguish and unpalatable.<br />Of course, the most complex character in the novel (and literature as a whole) is the good minister Arthur Dimmsdale.  One is compelled to both like him and despise him.  He is basically a good man and an unquestionably fine soldier in the army of the Lord, winning many souls to God with his impassioned sermons.  He is more aware than anyone else of his sinful nature, and he punishes himself quite brutally in private in a useless attempt to make up for the public ignominy he lacks the moral courage to call upon himself with a public profession of his deed.  Dimmsdale is a coward and a hypocrite.  At one critical moment in the latter pages of the novel, he blames Hester for his state of misery, and it is that comment in particular that makes this tragic character a man I can only commiserate with to a limited degree.  Even at the penultimate moment of the novel, as he finally bears the mark of his shame and guilt for all his parishioners to see, the very men and women who have viewed him as a saintly man of God rather than the brigand he knows himself to be, he does not openly confess-his words and deeds do make plain the secret of his heart, but it is his lack of a thoroughly bold confession that causes some of his most devoted followers, so Hawthorne tells us, to blindly judge his final act as an illustrative parable on the danger of sin threatening each member of his congregation rather than an admission of guilt and self-condemnation.<br />It upsets me to see readers who do not appreciate this novel as one of the earliest and best American classics, a novel that contributed greatly to the establishment of a literary culture in the young country.  The language is of a more florid style than today's readers are used to, but this novel is in no way boring.  Hawthorne paints some of the most vivid scenes of human drama I have ever witnessed; he writes in such a way that you are there in colonial Boston watching the story play out before your very eyes, struggling to come to terms with your own feelings in regard to such complex and sometimes inscrutable characters.  The climactic chapter is truly and deeply moving, more than capable of bringing tears to the eyes of the sensitive soul.  The Scarlet Letter is just a brilliant, gripping, thoroughly human novel that I wish everyone could appreciate as much as I do.sitive soul.  The Scarlet Letter is just a brilliant, gripping, thoroughly human novel that I wish everyone could appreciate as much as I do.	2002-12-22
1299623:US	53016962	RB84ARCT4985U	0394824822	932475666	The Mystery of the Shrinking House (Three Investigators, 18)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A case of not so simple deduction	The Mystery of the Shrinking House offers up yet another impressive display of young Jupiter Jones' deduction skills.  At first, there does not seem to be much of a case at all-a Countess wants to reclaim the items from her dead brother's estate, all of which had recently been purchased by Jupe's Uncle Titus for the Jones Salvage Yard.  By the time the Countess arrives to make the request, all of the items have been sold, and the boys take on the task of tracking the items down.  They find almost everything except for a strange series of 20 paintings; these paintings all depict a particular house, and the house is drawn progressively smaller on each one.  When bad guys show up to interfere with the Three Investigators' budding investigation, Jupiter knows that the strange paintings are the key to something big.  It is worth noting that this book features Jupiter's young nemesis Skinny Norris, but Skinny once again proves himself to be no Dr. Moriarty to Jupiter's Sherlock Holmes.<br />It's a well-told story, complete with a surprise or two at the end.  The whole logic of the shrinking house clue ended up feeling slightly contrived, but the path to discovery was an enjoyable one.  The boys seem to walk right into one trap after another, but these detectives have never left a mystery unsolved and refuse to do so now, even in the face of danger.  There is plenty of action in these pages, but this story really does hinge on the deductive reasoning powers of Jupiter Jones.  In this, his fourth Three Investigators mystery (and the eighteenth in the series as a whole), William Arden demonstrates a good feel for the characters, but even he fails to capture all of the nuances that made series creator Robert Arthur's books so gripping and entertaining.	2002-12-19
1300295:US	53016962	RKZN5I3OJI5VJ	0394826515	20277701	Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators in the Secret of Phantom Lake (Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators, 19)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great fun but just an average Three Investigators mystery	This isn't one of the more exciting Three Investigators mysteries, but The Secret of Phantom Lake is still a great read for both young readers and adult 3I fans such as myself.  There is not quite as much danger to the boys during the course of this investigation; they are accosted a few times and trapped in tight places once or twice, but the actions taken against them are clearly done just to slow them down rather than actually harm them.  We hardly get a look inside the secret headquarters, my favorite childhood location, this time around because much of the action takes place around Phantom Lake just outside of Rocky Beach.  This novel is your basic treasure hunt adventure; it all starts with an old sea chest, a false compartment in the chest, and mysterious journal entries from a dead man.  If there is indeed a treasure, Jupiter knows he must work quickly because two suspicious and threatening men are also on the hunt for it.  The supporting characters are not flushed out as well as I would have liked, and for this reason the surprise at the end failed to surprise me much at all.  Still, I just love watching Jupiter's mind at work on solving a seemingly unsolvable mystery.  This nineteenth book in the original series, written by prominent 3I author William Arden, does not contain the frenetic pace and throb of excitement that are to be found in the earlier novels of series creator Robert Arthur, but it's still a fun read sure to stimulate the mind in an attempt to figure everything out before Jupiter Jones does.	2002-12-18
1301772:US	53016962	R35RLYZ6V7U11Q	0345391837	458212829	So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	How Arthur Dent sheds the bathrobe and finds true love	So Long, and Thanks For All the Fish, the fourth book in the Hitchhiker's \\"trilogy,\\" is a much different read than the books preceding it.  Gone are the skips and jumps from one galaxy and time to another, the almost constant evasions of certain death, the madcap hilarity that ensued whenever Zaphod, Ford, Trillian, Arthur, and Marvin got together (or split up), and the maddening pace of a well-told tale going happily along with little care whether or not the story ever approached an appropriately witty conclusion.  This is basically the story of the young lady who figured out the secret of happiness just seconds before Earth was destroyed by a Vogon fleet preparing the way for a hyperspace bypass.  It is also Arthur Dent's story.  Sure, we got to now Arthur fairly well in the first three books, but he does spend an inordinate amount of time saying things like: What?,  I don't understand, Is it possible to get a cup of tea? and That's it then, we're all going to die.  Once you get him out of that well-traveled bathrobe, Arthur Dent turns out to be a real person-a little weird, of course, but real, rather complex, and surprisingly interesting nonetheless.<br />The story opens with Arthur's return to Earth.  I know Earth has already been destroyed, but that's just a minor detail.  Why and how Arthur returned is something of a mystery, but he is amazed to find that his home planet not only exists, but that no more than six or eight months have passed since he left suddenly eight years earlier.  His readjustment to life back home makes for good reading, but what is really important is that hapless Arthur Dent soon falls in love; it happens at first sight, even though the enchanting Fenchurch is quite unconscious at the time.  Lucky enough to accidentally meet her in a more lucid state, Arthur's rather feeble attempts to tell her how and why he is powerfully drawn to her surprisingly meet with some success.  Then the type of thing that can only happen to Arthur Dent (or me, in all likelihood) separates the two soon-to-be lovebirds for some time.  I found the description of Arthur's dysfunctional romance with Fenchurch to be as touching as it was humorous.  Their entwined fates take them on a journey of discovery which culminates in their discovery of God's final message to Creation.  Those who want the type of nonstop action found in the preceding books may be somewhat disappointed here. The pace is much slower, but the character development is rich and winsome.  Zaphod fans will be disappointed by his total noninvolvement in this book.  Ford makes only a glorified cameo appearance, while Marvin makes a brief but quite memorable return.  I myself have a special affinity for this novel; unlike its more humorous predecessors this one seems important and meaningful.  Additionally, you have to be happy for Arthur's unprecedented feeling of happiness in a universe he can verifiably assert to be quite off its rocker.me, in all likelihood) separates the two soon-to-be lovebirds for some time.  I found the description of Arthur's dysfunctional romance with Fenchurch to be as touching as it was humorous.  Their entwined fates take them on a journey of discovery which culminates in their discovery of God's final message to Creation.  Those who want the type of nonstop action found in the preceding books may be somewhat disappointed here. The pace is much slower, but the character development is rich and winsome.  Zaphod fans will be disappointed by his total noninvolvement in this book.  Ford makes only a glorified cameo appearance, while Marvin makes a brief but quite memorable return.  I myself have a special affinity for this novel; unlike its more humorous predecessors this one seems important and meaningful.  Additionally, you have to be happy for Arthur's unprecedented feeling of happiness in a universe he can verifiably assert to be quite off its rocker.	2002-12-17
1303016:US	53016962	RNBKPPTLE8855	0345391829	458212829	Life, the Universe and Everything (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	17	24	N	N	The Hitchhiker's trilogy loses some of its focus	Life, the Universe, and Everything is rather different from the preceding two books in the Hitchhiker's Trilogy.  It's quite funny, particularly in a few rather memorable sections, but it is not consistently funny from beginning to end.  Parts of it were so unspectacular that I barely remembered what I had just read, and one aspect of the concluding scenario is still rather incomprehensible to me, a case of deus ex machina I just can't place in the context of the whole story.  All of our favorite characters are back: Arthur Dent, Ford Prefect, Zaphod Beeblebrox, Trillian, Marvin the woefully depressed android, and even Slartibartfast; unfortunately, they are rarely together, and I sometimes lost track of Zaphod in particular after reading a number of chapters that ignored him entirely.  Much of the action is also rather contrived, such as the sudden appearance of a couch on prehistoric earth upon which Arthur and Ford travel forward in time to the last two days of earth's existence.  On several occasions, characters seemed to zap to another place and time by no discernible means.  The game of cricket is particularly important here, to the point that I really wish I understood what the sport is all about, but I admit it was a clever plot device to tie the sport to a particularly nasty, universe-threatening planet ten billion years in the past.  The planet of Krikkit, you see, set out to destroy the rest of the universe because its people basically just wanted to be left alone.  Throughout the novel white Krikkit robots appear out of nowhere to seize special items needed to unlock their planet from the Slo-Time envelope established around it at the end of the Krikkit Wars.  This is a bad thing because the people of Krikkit still want nothing more than to destroy the entire universe.  In a rather murky way, Arthur Dent is called upon to save the universe, and that is also not a particularly good thing.<br />There are a few highlights to the story.  The subplot involving Agrajag is particularly good.  In the course of Arthur Dent's journeys through space and time, he has been responsible for the deaths of a great number of creatures-insects, flies, at least one rabbit, etc.  Quite coincidently, as Arthur tries to argue, every single one of these creatures was Agrajag in his multiple reincarnated forms.  Naturally, a body develops a hatred for the brute who keeps killing it time and time again, but Agrajag has gone so far as to build a veritable shrine to the entity he hates most in the cosmos, complete with a gigantic statue of Arthur Dent simultaneously killing him in a great number of his past life forms.  I also particularly enjoy Adams' take on learning to fly; it takes a special knack, one which consists basically of throwing yourself to the ground and missing-the easily distracted Arthur Dent is a natural at it.<br />Overall, the plot just meanders too much to suit me.  Transitions of characters from one time and place to another make very little sense, major characters are abandoned for too long at a time, and the plot is not laid out neatly enough for it all to make sense to me.  On the whole, much less seems to happen in this book than often happened over the course of a few chapters in the first two books of the trilogy.  This is still an entertaining read, but even the comedy lacks some of the satirical and witty zest that typified Adams' earlier successes.g Agrajag is particularly good.  In the course of Arthur Dent's journeys through space and time, he has been responsible for the deaths of a great number of creatures-insects, flies, at least one rabbit, etc.  Quite coincidently, as Arthur tries to argue, every single one of these creatures was Agrajag in his multiple reincarnated forms.  Naturally, a body develops a hatred for the brute who keeps killing it time and time again, but Agrajag has gone so far as to build a veritable shrine to the entity he hates most in the cosmos, complete with a gigantic statue of Arthur Dent simultaneously killing him in a great number of his past life forms.  I also particularly enjoy Adams' take on learning to fly; it takes a special knack, one which consists basically of throwing yourself to the ground and missing-the easily distracted Arthur Dent is a natural at it.  <br />Overall, the plot just meanders too much to suit me.  Transitions of characters from one time and place to another make very little sense, major characters are abandoned for too long at a time, and the plot is not laid out neatly enough for it all to make sense to me.  On the whole, much less seems to happen in this book than often happened over the course of a few chapters in the first two books of the trilogy.  This is still an entertaining read, but even the comedy lacks some of the satirical and witty zest that typified Adams' earlier successes.	2002-12-16
1304632:US	53016962	RK1VJ2CL9IXSS	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Even better than a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe begins where The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy left off, only Zaphod Beeblebrox's idea of stopping for dinner at the aforementioned restaurant is delayed a bit (or an incredibly long bit, depending on your upcoming temporal location).  Having escaped the legendary planet Magrathea without having been killed by intergalactic policemen or, in the case of Arthur Dent, having his brain slicked up and studied for the inherent Question of the Life, the Universe, and Everything which is undoubtedly hardwired into it somewhere, the hoopiest cast of space travelers in the galaxy thought their troubles were over, or at least greatly lessened.  They were completely wrong.  The Vogon ship that destroyed the earth shows up to destroy the last two remnants of that now-dead world, namely Arthur Dent and Trillian McMillian.  Unfortunately, Arthur's increasingly strident demands for a cup of real tea have the entire computer system on board the Heart of Gold focused on that task rather than anything as silly as escaping imminent destruction.  This is just the beginning of this particular set of adventures.  Other highlights include a visit by Zaphod's dead great-grandfather, a night of drinks and food at the Restaurant at the End of the Universe, Zaphod's experience inside the universally-feared Total Perspective Vortex, a trip in the mega-rock band Danger Area's stunt ship into a sun, a meeting with the real Ruler of the Universe, and a return trip to the Earth-sort of.<br />Nobody crams as much comedy per page as Douglas Adams.  While The Restaurant at the End of the Universe isn't quite as amazing as its predecessor, this is only because its predecessor was so amazingly original and different from everything that came before it.  The satire Adams employs, often quite subtle, is as brilliant as always; anyone who reads this book will laugh, but only some will realize that he/she is really laughing at himself and the absurdity of human life that Adams is playing off of.  These characters are more real to me than many of the people I know in real life.  Best of all, they don't change: Arthur Dent remains the rather bemused, clueless soul he has always been; Ford Prefect is just Ford, only more so; Zaphod-well, Zaphod's just this guy, you know; and poor longsuffering Marvin the Paranoid Android is still the most depressing (yet hilarious) robotically engineered life form in the galaxy.  If these crazy characters and Adams' brilliantly comedic narrative don't make you laugh, you would be well advised to don a pair of Joo Janta 200 Super-Chromatic Peril Sensitive Sunglasses because you are headed smack dab into big trouble indeed.ife that Adams is playing off of.  These characters are more real to me than many of the people I know in real life.  Best of all, they don't change: Arthur Dent remains the rather bemused, clueless soul he has always been; Ford Prefect is just Ford, only more so; Zaphod-well, Zaphod's just this guy, you know; and poor longsuffering Marvin the Paranoid Android is still the most depressing (yet hilarious) robotically engineered life form in the galaxy.  If these crazy characters and Adams' brilliantly comedic narrative don't make you laugh, you would be well advised to don a pair of Joo Janta 200 Super-Chromatic Peril Sensitive Sunglasses because you are headed smack dab into big trouble indeed.	2002-12-14
1306071:US	53016962	R3HIIG9C8PG660	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	361	379	N	N	Don't forget to bring a towel	No matter how many times I read The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and I've read it quite a few times already, it never fails to thrill me and induce bouts of almost uncontrollably hearty laughter.  With this novel, Douglas Adams gave life to a phenomenon that will long outlive his tragically short life, delighting millions of readers for untold years to come.  I'm not sure if science fiction had ever seen anything like this before 1979.  This is science fiction made to laugh at itself while honoring its rich tradition, but it is much more than that.  Adams' peculiarly dead-on humor also draws deeply from the well of sociology, philosophy, and of course science.  Whenever Adams encountered a sacred cow of any sort, he milked it dry before moving on.  Beneath the surface of utter hilarity, Adams actually used his sarcasm and wit to make some rather poignant statements about this silly thing called life and the manner in which we are going about living it.  This is one reason the book is so well-suited for multiple readings-a high level of enjoyment is guaranteed each time around, and there are always new insights to be gained from Adams' underlying, oftentimes subtle, ideas and approach.<br />Arthur Dent is your normal human being, and so he naturally is more concerned about his house being knocked down than facing the fact that the world is about to end.  His friend Ford Prefect, he comes to learn, is actually a researcher from a planet somewhere in the vicinity of Betelgeuse, but before he can even begin to comprehend this fact, he finds himself zipped up into the confines of the Vogon space cruiser that has just destroyed the planet Earth.  Things become even trickier for him when he discovers the great usefulness of sticking a Babel fish into his ear and then meets the singular President of the Galaxy Zaphod Beeblebrox and his shipmate Trillian, both of whom Arthur actually met months before at a party.  Such impossible coincidences are explained by the fact that Beeblebrox's ship is powered by the new Infinite Improbability Drive.  Dent grows more and more confused during his travels on board the Heart of Gold, and the story eventually culminates with an amazing visit to an astronomically improbable world.<br />Much of the humor here is impossible to describe; this novel must be read to be appreciated.  It seems like every single line holds a joke of some kind within it.  The characters are also terrific: the unfortunate Arthur Dent, who basically has no idea what is going on; Ford Prefect, Arthur's remarkable friend from Betelgeuse; Zaphod Beeblebrox, with his two heads, three arms, and cavalier attitude; Trillian the lovely Earth girl who basically flies the Heart of Gold; Slartibartfast the planet builder and fjord-make extraordinaire; and my favorite character of all, Marvin the eternally depressed robot.  Life-\\"loathe it or ignore it, you can't like it\\" is the Paranoid Android's philosophy.  One brilliant thing that Adams does is to step away from the action every so often to present interesting facts about the universe as recorded in the Hitchhiker's Guide; here we learn about Vogon poetry, the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal, Trans Galactic Gargle Blasters, and other fascinating tidbits about life in the crazy universe Adams created.  He even gives the reader the ultimate answer to the question of Life, the Universe, and Everything in these pages.<br />This novel is just an amazingly hilarious read that will leave you yearning for more; to our great fortune, Adams indeed left us more in the form of four subsequent books in the Hitchhiker's \\"trilogy.\\"  If you don't like science fiction, it doesn't matter; read this book just for the laughs.  The most amazing thing about Adams' humor is the fact that everyone seems to \\"get\\" it.  Adams broke all the rules in writing a novel quite unlike any that had come before it, and he succeeded in spades.  This may well be the funniest novel ever written.hat Beeblebrox's ship is powered by the new Infinite Improbability Drive.  Dent grows more and more confused during his travels on board the Heart of Gold, and the story eventually culminates with an amazing visit to an astronomically improbable world.<br />Much of the humor here is impossible to describe; this novel must be read to be appreciated.  It seems like every single line holds a joke of some kind within it.  The characters are also terrific: the unfortunate Arthur Dent, who basically has no idea what is going on; Ford Prefect, Arthur's remarkable friend from Betelgeuse; Zaphod Beeblebrox, with his two heads, three arms, and cavalier attitude; Trillian the lovely Earth girl who basically flies the Heart of Gold; Slartibartfast the planet builder and fjord-make extraordinaire; and my favorite character of all, Marvin the eternally depressed robot.  Life-\\"loathe it or ignore it, you can't like it\\" is the Paranoid Android's philosophy.  One brilliant thing that Adams does is to step away from the action every so often to present interesting facts about the universe as recorded in the Hitchhiker's Guide; here we learn about Vogon poetry, the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal, Trans Galactic Gargle Blasters, and other fascinating tidbits about life in the crazy universe Adams created.  He even gives the reader the ultimate answer to the question of Life, the Universe, and Everything in these pages.  <br />This novel is just an amazingly hilarious read that will leave you yearning for more; to our great fortune, Adams indeed left us more in the form of four subsequent books in the Hitchhiker's \\"trilogy.\\"  If you don't like science fiction, it doesn't matter; read this book just for the laughs.  The most amazing thing about Adams' humor is the fact that everyone seems to \\"get\\" it.  Adams broke all the rules in writing a novel quite unlike any that had come before it, and he succeeded in spades.  This may well be the funniest novel ever written.	2002-12-13
1306771:US	53016962	R3A1XN82U6MH3L	0449002411	209698720	The Presence	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One of Saul's more impressive novels	I had my doubts about The Presence early on.  Although the Hawaiian setting was a new one, the subject of human experimentation on children by a mysterious group of seemingly unfeeling men is rather standard fare for Saul.  The book started off slowly, moving from an unexplained discovery of a mysterious geode off the shores of the big island of Hawaii to a rather bland account of the move by anthropologist Katharine Sundquist and her son Michael from New York to Maui.  Brought there to study the remains of a peculiar skeleton found near the volcanic slopes of Haleakala, Katharine soon finds herself in a living nightmare, one which threatens to take the life of her son.  She has only the help of new boss and former flame Rob Silver in learning the truth about her new employer Takeo Yoshihara.  Young Michael suffered asthma as a youth and had worked hard to overcome the condition, setting his sights on joining the track team in defiance of the ailment that had made his life a solitary one.  On the island, he wins a spot on the team and makes several friends very quickly, but after the group sneaks off for an ill-advised night-time scuba dive, Michael's world spins out of control.  As tragedy begins to strike his friends, Michael himself begins to struggle once again for each breath he takes.  The problem is not asthma this time, however, but something much more dangerous-and unnatural.<br />The story of Michael's unhappiness over the move to Hawaii, his introduction to and contact with his friends on the track team, and Katharine's own work with Rob Silver on the unidentified skeleton are rather rough going.  The plot doesn't seem to move very well, and the characters are not very compelling.  Once things start moving, though, and the secrets at the heart of the plot begin to emerge, the novel becomes quite gripping and fascinating.  There are some rather farfetched and seemingly unnecessary elements attached to the storyline, but they do not harm one's enjoyment of the book.  All in all, the whole package is wrapped more tightly than many of Saul's other novels, leaving me with few unexplained answers at the conclusion.  It's a well-told story, although one aspect of the denouement seems just a little too convenient.  The setting, based on Saul's own familiarity with the island of Maui, is rich and vibrant, adding further energy to the tale.  The basic idea of The Presence, secret experimentation on unsuspecting children, is nothing new, but this novel has legs to stand on its own two feet.  The main characters eventually seem convincingly real, the science Saul evokes does not come across as utterly implausible, and the conclusion succeeds in tying together most of the loose ends scattered throughout the text.  For my money, this is one of Saul's more impressive novels.f the book.  All in all, the whole package is wrapped more tightly than many of Saul's other novels, leaving me with few unexplained answers at the conclusion.  It's a well-told story, although one aspect of the denouement seems just a little too convenient.  The setting, based on Saul's own familiarity with the island of Maui, is rich and vibrant, adding further energy to the tale.  The basic idea of The Presence, secret experimentation on unsuspecting children, is nothing new, but this novel has legs to stand on its own two feet.  The main characters eventually seem convincingly real, the science Saul evokes does not come across as utterly implausible, and the conclusion succeeds in tying together most of the loose ends scattered throughout the text.  For my money, this is one of Saul's more impressive novels.	2002-12-12
1307835:US	53016962	R2D7O41QHGO71P	0441009387	80979198	Chindi	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I loved every minute of this thrilling s-f adventure	Jack McDevitt is probably my favorite author currently writing science fiction, and Chindi was a particularly fascinating, thrilling read.  Like one of the spaceships in the story, the novel takes a little while to get up and going, but once it does, it is edge-of-your-seat action all the way.  The story starts with a mysterious signal picked up in the vicinity of a neutron star.  Satellites are left in orbit, and five years later they pick up the indecipherable signal again.  Priscilla Hutchins (\\"Hutch\\") is chosen to pilot a craft housing members of the Contact Society (a private group of extraterrestrial enthusiasts and believers) to the star, while another ship travels to the possible destination of the signal.  Here begins a monumental, interstellar journey filled with great discovery and great tragedy.  Hutch and her passengers pursue the signal through several star systems, finding proof of advanced alien civilizations but no aliens they can speak to.  When they attempt to explore one world populated by large, clothed avian beings, their hopes of making contact are dashed rather brutally.  One of the most interesting sites they explore is the Retreat, a large house filled with seemingly human, albeit over-sized, artifacts-library, desks, shelves of books (frozen in the cold vacuum), beds, etc.  The Retreat sits on a small moon offering a gorgeous view of a two-star system of great majesty and beauty.  It is here that they discover another ship, proof of advanced extraterrestrial life, and the rest of the plot revolves around their attempts to learn the secrets the ship holds and to return home.  Finding their way back ends up being the most difficult and definitely most thrilling part of their journey.<br />Chindi actually marks Hutch's third appearance in McDevitt's novels, a fact which I did not discover before I was well into the story.  It is not necessary to know the story of Hutch's earlier missions in order to read and enjoy this particular novel, though.  The cast of characters is interesting but improbable-the Contact Society team members are not scientists.  They include an actress/producer, an artist, a funeral home director, and similarly unscientific men and women.  One is, of course, a former love interest of Hutch, and that adds a little more flavor to the pot.  These people make mistakes, and some of them pay with their lives, yet they all emerge as truly heroic souls who want nothing more than to answer the cosmic questions man has been posing as long as he has looked at the stars and wondered if he was alone in the universe.  The science of McDevitt's science fiction works pretty well, although I have a problem with a couple of things that happened.  I found McDevitt's characters to be vibrant, real, and interesting, although I understand some readers apparently do not find them as interesting as I do.  We don't get to the essence of them all, and Hutch's future is left quite unresolved at the end, but I came to know and like everyone in this novel, despite their blunders and often childlike enthusiasm.  There is a whole lot of action in these pages, particularly in the latter half of the novel, and I was flat-out riveted by it.  Hutch in particular is almost unbelievably heroic yet constantly vulnerable and afraid (i.e., real).  I heartily recommend Chindi to fans of great science fiction.  It is one of the most memorable science fiction novels I have ever read.h.  The cast of characters is interesting but improbable-the Contact Society team members are not scientists.  They include an actress/producer, an artist, a funeral home director, and similarly unscientific men and women.  One is, of course, a former love interest of Hutch, and that adds a little more flavor to the pot.  These people make mistakes, and some of them pay with their lives, yet they all emerge as truly heroic souls who want nothing more than to answer the cosmic questions man has been posing as long as he has looked at the stars and wondered if he was alone in the universe.  The science of McDevitt's science fiction works pretty well, although I have a problem with a couple of things that happened.  I found McDevitt's characters to be vibrant, real, and interesting, although I understand some readers apparently do not find them as interesting as I do.  We don't get to the essence of them all, and Hutch's future is left quite unresolved at the end, but I came to know and like everyone in this novel, despite their blunders and often childlike enthusiasm.  There is a whole lot of action in these pages, particularly in the latter half of the novel, and I was flat-out riveted by it.  Hutch in particular is almost unbelievably heroic yet constantly vulnerable and afraid (i.e., real).  I heartily recommend Chindi to fans of great science fiction.  It is one of the most memorable science fiction novels I have ever read.	2002-12-12
1312466:US	53016962	R21VASOANTMHDC	0425088987	92373266	Glory Road	Books	5	106	108	N	N	Glory Road is definitely a road worth taking	Glory Road followed closely on the heels of Stranger in a Strange Land, but it is a much different book.  Written in 1962, this is Heinlein's only full-fledged fantasy novel, and that in itself makes it an interesting read.  Heinlein was definitely writing for an adult audience by this point in his career, and he boasted that this novel had enough sex in it to cause heart failure among those who had complained about Stranger.  By today's standards, the adult relationships included here are barely noticeable, implied certainly but never described at all.<br />E.C. Gordon is hanging around Europe, having received both a medical discharge and facial scar from fighting in a \\"non-war\\" in Southeast Asia, when he encounters a stunning young woman on the beaches of France.  Thinking he has won a sweepstakes he reluctantly rushes out of town, fearing that in doing so he has blown his one and only chance with the girl of his dreams.  His winning ticket proves a forgery, and he decides to answer a personal ad asking \\"Are you a coward?\\"  To his surprise, he encounters his lady from the beach and soon finds himself transported to another universe.  Dubbed \\"Oscar\\" by \\"the princess\\" Star, he assumes the role of hero, aiding the mysterious woman on an extremely urgent quest that promises lots of adventure and even more danger.  With Star's assistant Rufo, the group journeys through the portals of several universes, killing dangerous beasts that get in their way, in a quest to claim the Egg of the Phoenix.  Oscar settles in to his new role, and the adventure proves to be most interesting, especially when he finally learns what the whole thing is all about.<br />Somewhat to my surprise, the novel could almost be said to end two-thirds of the way through, but fortunately it does not (despite the request of at least one editor that it do so).  The rest of the novel is much different but is no less satisfying.  In these pages, Heinlein incorporates some of his normal philosophizing about life, society, politics, etc.  More importantly, it is only here that the real story of what has gone on before is brought to light, and the depth added to the characters in these concluding chapters makes Glory Road much more satisfying than it would be had the story stopped at the end of the adventure itself.  This is not the Heinlein most readers will expect, and some fans will doubtless count this novel among Heinlein's least enjoyable works.  I personally found it stimulating and great fun.  Heinlein sort of shows us another side of his personality in this atypical offering, and with it he offers even more proof, unnecessary as it is, that he is an amazingly gifted writer.out life, society, politics, etc.  More importantly, it is only here that the real story of what has gone on before is brought to light, and the depth added to the characters in these concluding chapters makes Glory Road much more satisfying than it would be had the story stopped at the end of the adventure itself.  This is not the Heinlein most readers will expect, and some fans will doubtless count this novel among Heinlein's least enjoyable works.  I personally found it stimulating and great fun.  Heinlein sort of shows us another side of his personality in this atypical offering, and with it he offers even more proof, unnecessary as it is, that he is an amazingly gifted writer.	2002-12-08
1315304:US	53016962	R2RXLCLKWBUY1F	0786015039	680292351	The Red Church	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A promising new horror writer's debut novel	Horror has a promising new author in Scott Nicholson.  While this debut novel is not perfect, it is a compelling read that moves purposefully from start to finish, exuding a consistent level of creepiness.  The plot itself never bogs down, which is a definite plus.  The characters are not quite as fleshed out as I might like, but I feel like I got a pretty good glimpse at most of them and what they were about.  Good and evil is somewhat blurred in many cases, but I definitely found myself pulling for the youngsters Ronnie and Timmy Day and for Sheriff Littlefield.  The reader probably comes to know the sheriff more than any other character because for him the events of this story do not begin in the present but, instead, years earlier during his childhood.  One Halloween night, he watched his younger brother die, hanged from the belfry of the mysterious red church, pushed by the hands (actually talons) of the horrible Bell Monster; perhaps even worse, he saw the image of the cackling Hung Preacher hanging from the limb of the dogwood in front of the church, the very tree on which that infernal preacher was hanged by his own church members four generations earlier.  The guilt, fear, and horror of that night have haunted the sheriff for many years, and Nicholson conveys this inner turmoil pretty well to the reader.<br />The Hung Preacher died long ago, but his descendant Archer McFall has come back home to reopen the Red Church and preach his own twisted sort of religion.  He is the second son of God, he proclaims, here to undo the damage done by the first son, the liar Jesus who promised everyone salvation if they would just believe; Archer, the second son, insists that sacrifice and suffering is required in order to receive salvation.  His congregation is made up of the descendants of the men and women who murdered his great-great grandfather, and he insists that they must make great sacrifices to atone for the actions of their own ancestors.  For some reason which is never quite clear, Archer specifically needs Ronnie Day, and Ronnie's mother, a former disciple of Archer, will do anything to please her supposed savior.  Standing in the way of this ordained fate for the boy are Ronnie's father and the sheriff.<br />I have no complaints about the ending.  There are a few little potholes in the road along the way, but that is almost to be expected in an author's first published novel.  A couple of things at the end didn't make perfect sense to me, but Nicholson did a commendable job of leaving no important issues unaddressed.  There are no grand surprises at the end, but a twist or two make sure that the conclusion is not totally predictable.  The blasphemy perpetrated by Archer may offend those with strong Christian beliefs, but this book is in no way anti-religious.  It merely employs Archer's [wrong] testament to serve as the lever on which the whole novel is balanced.  Obviously, Nicholson has some talent, and he knows how to tell a good story; I will be looking forward to his second novel.  There is definitely a good bit of potential here for the future.is never quite clear, Archer specifically needs Ronnie Day, and Ronnie's mother, a former disciple of Archer, will do anything to please her supposed savior.  Standing in the way of this ordained fate for the boy are Ronnie's father and the sheriff.  <br />I have no complaints about the ending.  There are a few little potholes in the road along the way, but that is almost to be expected in an author's first published novel.  A couple of things at the end didn't make perfect sense to me, but Nicholson did a commendable job of leaving no important issues unaddressed.  There are no grand surprises at the end, but a twist or two make sure that the conclusion is not totally predictable.  The blasphemy perpetrated by Archer may offend those with strong Christian beliefs, but this book is in no way anti-religious.  It merely employs Archer's [wrong] testament to serve as the lever on which the whole novel is balanced.  Obviously, Nicholson has some talent, and he knows how to tell a good story; I will be looking forward to his second novel.  There is definitely a good bit of potential here for the future.	2002-12-06
1317048:US	53016962	R32MOOTGKFGOO4	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	634	681	N	N	Science fiction's greatest achievement	Reviewing Stranger in a Strange Land is quite a challenge.  Is it the best science fiction novel ever published?  I would say yes.  Is it my favorite?  No; it's not even my favorite Heinlein novel.  To add a little more irony to the pot, Heinlein himself insisted that the book is not really science fiction to begin with.  Stranger really marks a huge turning point in Heinlein's career.  Unhappy with the brand of \\"juvenile\\" writer and the editing that position constantly entailed, Heinlein was determined to write a truly adult novel, one with no taboos, no limits, and no restrictions of any kind.  With Stranger in a Strange Land he accomplished that in spades, basically taking on the heretofore sacrosanct subjects of sexuality and religion.  Heinlein was not sure that anyone would even publish this story that took him 12 years to write; what was published was a mere figment of the original manuscript, 60,000 words having been cut out.  Even though Heinlein did the editing himself, it had to have felt like jabbing an ice pick into his own heart to do it.  Thankfully, we can now read the complete, original manuscript the way Heinlein intended the story to be told.<br />The plot is deceptively simple.  The first manned mission to Mars never made it home to Earth.  The second mission, twenty years later, found Valentine Michael Smith, an infant born on Mars and the only surviving member of the ill-fated first mission.  Having been raised by Martians, Smith is literally a stranger in a strange land when he is brought back to earth with \\"miraculous\\" abilities and a Martian philosophy of life.  The Federation government basically hides him away from prying eyes, partly in fear of the legal and political dangers posed by his unique status.  Having been raised by Martians, the human experience is completely new and rather frightening to him.  He has never even met a woman until nurse Jill Boardman sneaks into his room to get a glimpse of him.  Fearful that the government is going to keep Michael basically imprisoned (or worse), Jill helps sneak him out of the hospital, and the two of them end up at the home of Jubal Harshaw.  Jubal is an outspoken, older man who lives a thoroughly individual lifestyle, but he commits himself to helping Michael escape his perilous situation.  Michael quickly begins to absorb human knowledge and, less quickly, begins to understand the confusing mentality of human beings.<br />Halfway through the novel, you may be asking yourself why the book was so controversial; the answer becomes clear as Michael now steps out into the wider world.  He and Jill move around incognito, and Michael learns more about people.  After a stint as an unsuccessful magician, he eventually decides to become a preacher.  He's not preaching a religion, though; he offers humans a new way of living and thinking, one based on the Martian system he grew up in. This new lifestyle involves a lot of nudity, a lot of open fornication, and the constant repetition of a mantra of sorts naming yourself and those around you God.  The \\"I am God, you are God\\" theme is essentially Heinlein's means of emphasizing the personal responsibility of each individual for his own life.  It is not strictly antireligious, but certainly it is not an idea that would go over well among most fundamentalists.  I say most because I am a fundamentalist myself, but I understand what Heinlein was saying and recognize the fact that, after all, this is fiction.  Frankly, though, the free love theme bothers my sensibilities and causes my viewpoint of the novel to change somewhat.  Even though disapproval began to temper my enthusiasm toward the end, I certainly cannot give this book less than five stars.<br />Science fiction readers had never read anything quite like Stranger back in 1961; its originality, bold themes, and fearless writing hit with the force of a hurricane, and science fiction has never been quite the same.  The Hugo Award this novel rightfully won barelybegins to give it the honor and acclaim it deserves.  I cannot recommend this novel highly enough, albeit I must enclose a caveat with my endorsement.  This book has the power to shock readers even today; do not let your own beliefs take away from the wonder to be found in the pages of this novel.  Stranger requires and deserves a completely open mind from anyone who would approach it; it also requires multiple readings to even begin to plumb the depths of its riches.<br />Anyone wanting to understand and get a true appreciation of the genius of Robert Heinlein really must read Stranger, but I would not recommend picking this book up before you have sampled some of Heinlein's other wares.  It would be a real shame to let any adverse emotional reaction to the themes of this novel deprive you of the joy and wonder to be found in countless other Heinlein stories and novels.ely begins to give it the honor and acclaim it deserves.  I cannot recommend this novel highly enough, albeit I must enclose a caveat with my endorsement.  This book has the power to shock readers even today; do not let your own beliefs take away from the wonder to be found in the pages of this novel.  Stranger requires and deserves a completely open mind from anyone who would approach it; it also requires multiple readings to even begin to plumb the depths of its riches.   <br />Anyone wanting to understand and get a true appreciation of the genius of Robert Heinlein really must read Stranger, but I would not recommend picking this book up before you have sampled some of Heinlein's other wares.  It would be a real shame to let any adverse emotional reaction to the themes of this novel deprive you of the joy and wonder to be found in countless other Heinlein stories and novels.	2002-12-04
1321565:US	53016962	R1660CGY6IMNS4	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	A poignant, moving story of nature and survival	I have to admit that I have not really given Jack London his proper due up to now.  Perhaps it is because I don't by my nature like outdoor adventure type stories, or perhaps it is because I associate White Fang and \\"To Build a Fire\\" with my youth.  The fact is that Jack London is a tremendously talented writer.  His understanding of the basics of life matches his great knowledge of the snow-enshrouded world of the upper latitudes.  The Call of the Wild, despite its relative brevity and the fact that it is (at least on its surface) a dog's story, contains as much truth and reality of man's own struggles as that which can be sifted from the life's work of many another respected author.  The story London tells is starkly real; as such, it is not pretty, and it is not elevating.  As an animal lover, I found parts of this story heartbreaking: Buck's removal from the civilized Southland in which he reigned supreme among his animal kindred to the brutal cold and even more brutal machinations of hard, weathered men who literally beat him and whipped him full of lashes is supremely sad and bothersome.  Even sadder are the stories of the dogs that fill the sled's traces around him.  Poor good-spirited Curly never has a chance, while Dave's story is made the more unbearable by his brave, undying spirit.  Even the harsh taskmaster Spitz has to be pitied, despite his harsh nature, for the reader knows full well that this harsh nature was forced upon him by man and his thirst for gold.  Buck's travails are long and hard, but the nobility of his spirit makes of him a hero--this despite the fact that his primitive animal instincts and urges continually come to dominate him, pushing away the memory and reality of his younger, softer days among civilized man.  Buck not only conquers all--the weather, the harshness of the men who harness his powers in turn, the other dogs and wolves he comes into contact with--he thrives.  This isn't a story to read when you are depressed.  London's writing is beautiful, poignant, and powerful, but it is also somber, sometimes morose, infinitely real, and at times gut-wrenching and heartbreaking.writing is beautiful, poignant, and powerful, but it is also somber, sometimes morose, infinitely real, and at times gut-wrenching and heartbreaking.	2002-12-01
1323133:US	53016962	R2S3NEBV0S74L9	1883729033	426082813	Lost Was the Key	Books	4	15	19	N	N	It's hard to judge such a unique abduction account	Lost Was the Key is Leah Haley's personal account of alien abduction and governmental harassment.  It is unlike any other abduction account I have read, as it incorporates in one story a great number of experiences shared by other individual abductees.  She claims to have been abducted multiple times since early childhood; smallish, chalky-colored beings have examined her physically on a number of occasions and have removed eggs from her ovaries, ostensibly for the creation of hybrid children; aliens have inserted implants into her body, and she has discovered physical marks on her person that coincide with her experiences.  She has interacted with more than one type of alien, including a reptilian race of beings apparently at odds with the race of her interstellar guide Ceto.  What is most important about her experiences, though, is her reported harassment at the hands of military and government agents on earth.  She claims to have been abducted several times by such human agents, who drugged and interrogated her to get information about the aliens.  Why the military should be so interested in her experiences becomes obvious when she quietly drops a bomb on the reader, saying that she was inside a spaceship that crash landed after having been shot down by the U.S. Air Force.<br />I'm not sure of my feelings for her story.  I have met the author and heard her speak of her experiences, and she struck me then as quite credible.  Her hypnotic regression sessions were handled by John Carpenter, who is well respected in the ufology community.  Her writing is not polished; it most definitely reads as her own personal effort to describe the things she has remembered and learned in her own way; it is in no way a slick presentation targeted at the reader.  She constantly jumps around from one experience or idea to another, which I found pretty frustrating.  She has many questions and very few answers.  Clearly, what makes this book stand out is her reported encounters with very human government agents; the personal trauma and excessive harassment she claims to have suffered at human hands is, if true, exceedingly grievous.  I really can't commit myself either way in this case; Haley makes so many claims that one has to be somewhat skeptical, although I have no reason to disbelieve her story.  She herself never comes to any firm conclusions about her experiences, constantly questioning her own sanity every step along the way.  This is truly a unique abduction account, and for that reason I would encourage any potential reader to familiarize himself/herself with the literature associated with this phenomenon before attempting to sort out the complexities of Haley's reported experiences.very human government agents; the personal trauma and excessive harassment she claims to have suffered at human hands is, if true, exceedingly grievous.  I really can't commit myself either way in this case; Haley makes so many claims that one has to be somewhat skeptical, although I have no reason to disbelieve her story.  She herself never comes to any firm conclusions about her experiences, constantly questioning her own sanity every step along the way.  This is truly a unique abduction account, and for that reason I would encourage any potential reader to familiarize himself/herself with the literature associated with this phenomenon before attempting to sort out the complexities of Haley's reported experiences.	2002-11-30
1325685:US	53016962	RAAJ26COHTQL8	0613034384	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	5	71	75	N	N	Heinlein's most inspirational juvenile novel	Citizen of the Galaxy is probably Heinlein's most mature juvenile novel and is certainly one of his most inspirational.  It contains a sweeping indictment of slavery and provides a stirring message about citizenship and civic responsibility.  Thorby is a slave; the only memories he has are a tangled morass of mistreatment spread among faceless men on nameless worlds; all he brings with him to Sargon are a filthy piece of clothing and an ugly assortment of scars and sores.  On the block, no one values him enough to even bid on him, all except for the beggar Baslim.  He takes him home (a hole beneath the abandoned amphitheatre) and raises him as a son rather than a slave.  Thorby learns the art of begging from his new Pop and enjoys the happiest years of his life with him.  Then Baslim, whom Thorby eventually learned was much more than a simple beggar, is arrested as a spy.  Thorby satisfies his Pop's wishes by evading capture himself and taking a message to a certain ship's captain.  Captain Krausa adopts Thorby as his own son and makes him a member of the Free Trader family on the ship Sisu.  Here Thorby learns the complexities of Free Trader family life, makes real friends, and assumes a pivotal job protecting the huge spacecraft from raiders.  Then Thorby is displaced once again, as Krausa takes him to the first ship of the Hegemonic Empire he comes in contact with.  While Thorby hates to leave his new family, he does it to satisfy Baslim's ultimate wish for him to find his true family.  Thorby soon learns that wealth does not make you rich as he strives to fight slavery in the galaxy and become the son his birth parents wanted him to be<br />Heinlein gives us three strikingly different looks at family life.  While Thorby is happy as a part of the immensely complicated Free Trader family on Sisu, he looks back at his days with the beggar Baslim as the happiest of his life.  On the ship, one is barely acknowledged as existing if he/she is not a part of the family.  The only person who talks to Thorby at first is an anthropologist, and she gives a poignant explanation of this type of society.  The family is free, yet each individual in that family is in some way a slave; Thorby is told what to do and when and where to do it.  The ultimate lesson is learned on Terra, where the prescripts of Baslim continue to guide Thorby's actions.  He is determined to fight against the slave trade, which is something most Terrans don't even believe exists because it is taking place far, far away.  For Thorby, it is personal and he devotes his life to fighting against it.  The ultimate responsibility he learns is to fully devote himself to the noble cause, to be willing to give us his own freedom, even to become a beggar as Baslim did, in order to work for the freedom of others.  The story is as much fantasy as science fiction, but the message it contains and the moral lessons it teaches make it one of Heinlein's most important and enjoyable novels.The only person who talks to Thorby at first is an anthropologist, and she gives a poignant explanation of this type of society.  The family is free, yet each individual in that family is in some way a slave; Thorby is told what to do and when and where to do it.  The ultimate lesson is learned on Terra, where the prescripts of Baslim continue to guide Thorby's actions.  He is determined to fight against the slave trade, which is something most Terrans don't even believe exists because it is taking place far, far away.  For Thorby, it is personal and he devotes his life to fighting against it.  The ultimate responsibility he learns is to fully devote himself to the noble cause, to be willing to give us his own freedom, even to become a beggar as Baslim did, in order to work for the freedom of others.  The story is as much fantasy as science fiction, but the message it contains and the moral lessons it teaches make it one of Heinlein's most important and enjoyable novels.	2002-11-27
1326547:US	53016962	R2YTOGNU5N6KP	B00005WFOS	843593460	Methuselah's Children	Books	5	57	60	N	N	All roads to Heinlein pass through Methuselah's Children	Methuselah's Children is a critical component of Heinlein's remarkably impressive body of work.  Not only does it culminate the Future History series of stories, it also points the way toward a better understanding of Heinlein's later writings.  Perhaps most importantly, this novel introduces us to Lazarus Long and other prominent members of the Howard family of long-timers.  This story opens well after the fall of the First Prophet theocracy described in Revolt in 2100; democracy, liberty, and freedom once again mean something in America-at least until the populace learns of the existence of a large group of men and women with lifespans more than double the norm.  Believing that the Howard families possess the secret of eternal life, the government takes action to seize all long-timers using any means necessary, including the abhorrent torture treatments made famous by the hated former theocracy.  The embattled administrator of the country believes the Family trustee and representative Zach Barstow when he tells him that there is no secret to be had, that the lifespans of the family are determined by heredity.  To the great fortune of all 100,000 long-lifers, the remarkable Lazarus Long decides to return to the Family fold he once left behind out of sheer boredom.  His leadership results in the Family escaping earth and making their way out into space in search of a new home planet.  Their travels are extensive, and their contact with other intelligent beings is as fascinating as it is intriguing-both culturally and scientifically.  Heinlein puts a lot of science into his description of the ship's interstellar voyage and the means by which the people plan to survive for a journey of many light years.  The colonists' interaction with the alien cultures they encounter is also delightfully original and compelling.  The ending did not display a final blast of power, but it serves as a more than acceptable conclusion to events.<br />I was most impressed by Heinlein's success at tying this novel in to the series of past Former History stories, going all the way back to Life-line and the genesis of the whole saga.  A few characters who seemed unimportant earlier in the stories quickly became important actors in the drama, such as astronavigator Libby from the story \\"Misfit.\\"  I have a much better appreciation of the earlier Future History stories after reading Methuselah's Children; things I saw as unimportant in earlier stories are now revealed in a whole new light and made inherently interesting.  Lazarus Long, with his fierce independence, refusal to go around without his kilt (with his blaster concealed underneath), youthful old age, free spirit, and lust for activity or adventure is a singular character one cannot soon forget.  His story is only begun in this novel, but it is something to behold from the very start.<br />This novel is intriguing and entertaining on its own merits, but I would encourage you to read the preceding Future History stories first (which can be found in The Man Who Sold the Moon, The Green Hills of Earth, and Revolt in 2100).  Without this background, you will miss completely some of the subtleties and references that make this novel extra special.  Likewise, if you are going to read Heinlein's later novels such as Time For Love this book serves as necessary background reading.  I see Methuselah's Children as the crucial intersection separating Heinlein's early stories and later novels, so it is incredibly important whichever way you look at it.  The science is well told, oftentimes prophetic, and perfectly believable and the sociological speculation is thought-provoking, but this novel is first and foremost an engaging, thrilling read that no Heinlein or vintage science fiction fan should miss.ccess at tying this novel in to the series of past Former History stories, going all the way back to Life-line and the genesis of the whole saga.  A few characters who seemed unimportant earlier in the stories quickly became important actors in the drama, such as astronavigator Libby from the story \\"Misfit.\\"  I have a much better appreciation of the earlier Future History stories after reading Methuselah's Children; things I saw as unimportant in earlier stories are now revealed in a whole new light and made inherently interesting.  Lazarus Long, with his fierce independence, refusal to go around without his kilt (with his blaster concealed underneath), youthful old age, free spirit, and lust for activity or adventure is a singular character one cannot soon forget.  His story is only begun in this novel, but it is something to behold from the very start.  <br />This novel is intriguing and entertaining on its own merits, but I would encourage you to read the preceding Future History stories first (which can be found in The Man Who Sold the Moon, The Green Hills of Earth, and Revolt in 2100).  Without this background, you will miss completely some of the subtleties and references that make this novel extra special.  Likewise, if you are going to read Heinlein's later novels such as Time For Love this book serves as necessary background reading.  I see Methuselah's Children as the crucial intersection separating Heinlein's early stories and later novels, so it is incredibly important whichever way you look at it.  The science is well told, oftentimes prophetic, and perfectly believable and the sociological speculation is thought-provoking, but this novel is first and foremost an engaging, thrilling read that no Heinlein or vintage science fiction fan should miss.	2002-11-26
1326932:US	53016962	R2WI6YC6PLA76N	0441653049	134591962	The Past Through Tomorrow: Future History Stories	Books	5	50	51	N	N	The complete Future History in one book	The Past Through Tomorrow contains all 21 stories, novellas, and novels of Heinlein's Future History series.  The four books making up the series (The Man Who Sold the Moon, The Green Hills of Earth, Revolt in 2100, and Methuselah's Children) used to be a little hard to find in the pre-Internet days, making this collection an absolute boon to Heinlein readers.  In addition to the convenience of having everything in one volume, this book also includes two stories that are not to be found in my copies of the originating books: \\"Searchlight\\" and \\"The Menace From Earth.\\"  These are rather lightweight stories, but they are quite entertaining.<br />It was actually Joseph W. Campbell, Heinlein's editor at Amazing Science-Fiction, who came up with the term Future History; Heinlein did have some of the stories mapped out on a timeline, but he never intended to make this a series in any real sense of the word.  Up until the final selection, these stories are largely independent of one another.  With Methuselah's Children, however, Heinlein traces the tale's antecedents to his very first story \\"Life-Line,\\" incorporates a few characters from other assorted stories, and casts a web of continuity over the whole package.  Even still, this is only \\"a\\" future history, not \\"the\\" future history.  Aspects of Heinlein's science indeed worked its way into the real world over time, but one would be wrong to label this body of work as some type of prophetic endeavor on the author's part.<br />The contents of this collection basically offer the reader the cream of the crop of Heinlein's early fiction.  Among the stories deserving special mention here are the novella \\"The Man Who Sold the Moon,\\" featuring one of Heinlein's most unforgettable protagonists, \\"-We Also Walk Dogs,\\" the story of a company able to perform small miracles to meet the needs of its clients, \\"If This Goes On-,\\" a tale of the repressive theocracy that followed in the wake of evangelist Nehemiah Scudder usurpation of power, and the novel Methuselah's Children which brings the vision of these stories all together.  I have only one criticism of this fine collection: no special mention is made of the century-long gap between \\"Logic of Empire\\" and \\"If This Goes On-.\\"  The fall of American democracy at the usurping hands of Scudder is a story that Heinlein never told, so the reader may be shocked to find a forward-looking free America suddenly transformed into an anachronistic, brutal autocratic regime at the start of the latter of these two stories.  In my copy of Revolt in 2100, Heinlein includes a postscript concerning the stories never written-this does much to explain the striking transition that defines the \\"missing century\\" of this Future History, and it's a shame that this postscript did not find its way into this omnibus collection.<br />The Past Through Tomorrow serves as a wonderfully useful map to the writing of Robert A. Heinlein.  Not only does it contain the most important of his early short stories, it also sets the stage and provides the background material for Heinlein's later novels featuring the likes of the remarkable Lazarus Long.wer, and the novel Methuselah's Children which brings the vision of these stories all together.  I have only one criticism of this fine collection: no special mention is made of the century-long gap between \\"Logic of Empire\\" and \\"If This Goes On-.\\"  The fall of American democracy at the usurping hands of Scudder is a story that Heinlein never told, so the reader may be shocked to find a forward-looking free America suddenly transformed into an anachronistic, brutal autocratic regime at the start of the latter of these two stories.  In my copy of Revolt in 2100, Heinlein includes a postscript concerning the stories never written-this does much to explain the striking transition that defines the \\"missing century\\" of this Future History, and it's a shame that this postscript did not find its way into this omnibus collection.  <br />The Past Through Tomorrow serves as a wonderfully useful map to the writing of Robert A. Heinlein.  Not only does it contain the most important of his early short stories, it also sets the stage and provides the background material for Heinlein's later novels featuring the likes of the remarkable Lazarus Long.	2002-11-26
1328805:US	53016962	RJ9N129LNNWLI	0671655892	504852204	Revolt in 2100	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Volume Three of the Future History stories	Revolt in 2100 is the third volume in Heinlein's Future History series (preceded by The Man Who Sold the Moon and The Green Hills of Earth).  The bulk of the book consists of the famous novella \\"If This Goes On--\\" and is rounded out with the short stories \\"Coventry\\" and \\"Misfit.\\"  America is a much different place in the year 2100.  What was a thriving, democratic country reaching for the planets and beyond at the end of the second volume of the series is now a theocracy typified by brutal repression and backward-thinking.  Heinlein provides some information about the three unwritten tales that would describe the rise to power of evangelist Nehemiah Scudder, the First Prophet who tore asunder the Constitution and set up a regime as repressive and backwards-thinking as anything from the Middle Ages.  In 2100, Scudder is gone, but a First Prophet reigns in his name.  There are virgins to \\"serve\\" the First Prophet, and there are \\"Angels of the Lord\\" (such as protagonist John Lyle) charged to protect his safety.  Pariahs are frequently attacked and repressed by the government to further its dictatorial control, and history has been essentially deleted and replaced by a new version of America's story drilled into the heads of all youngsters.  For those who dare resist, a modern Inquisition exists to punish and torture them-there is no bigger fear than of being subjected to The Question.  Still, there are revolutionaries, even among the palace guard, and John Lyle finds himself joining their ranks after having fallen for a deaconess serving under the Prophet.  The account of Lyle's soul-searching conversion from loyal soldier to doubting pariah is well told, as is the story of his admission to the cabal and attempt to escape the service of the Prophet.  Once outside of the palace grounds, the narrative takes on a science fiction feel built around the plans of the cabal to overthrow the corrupt theocracy.  The transformation of Lyle is fascinating; as he discovers the unknown history of a free America and reads the words of men such as Thomas Paine for the first time, he has little choice but to accept the fact that the world of his youth was based on falsehood and corruption.<br />I didn't really care for the other two stories.  \\"Coventry\\" seemed to have potential early on but never seemed to deliver.  Coventry is the name of a region bordering America and serves as a destination for exiled citizens.  The protagonist's expectations and hopes concerning life in the mysterious land are quickly proven wrong as the Jeffersonian society he hoped to find there does not exist.  Finally, \\"Misfit\\" seems rather weak indeed.  It concerns a mission to bring an asteroid into earth orbit to serve as a de facto space station.  Protagonists and others like him find out that they can succeed and make a name for themselves in space, whereas at home on the ground they were misfits of no importance at all.  I really learned nothing at all from this tale.<br />\\"If This Goes On--\\" is one of Heinlein's most significant works, certainly among the Future History stories, and should not be missed by science fiction fans.  Its surreal setting seems fantastic to anyone whose spoken or unspoken belief is that \\"it can't happen here,\\" yet it provides an ever-timely warning against the dangers of extreme religious fanaticism gaining control over government.  It is ironic, though, that the story that truly dominates the subject matter of this book is a story that was not actually written-the rise to power of Nehemiah Scudder.  Heinlein's postscript about \\"stories never written\\" is actually more interesting than the shorter two stories included here.own history of a free America and reads the words of men such as Thomas Paine for the first time, he has little choice but to accept the fact that the world of his youth was based on falsehood and corruption.  <br />I didn't really care for the other two stories.  \\"Coventry\\" seemed to have potential early on but never seemed to deliver.  Coventry is the name of a region bordering America and serves as a destination for exiled citizens.  The protagonist's expectations and hopes concerning life in the mysterious land are quickly proven wrong as the Jeffersonian society he hoped to find there does not exist.  Finally, \\"Misfit\\" seems rather weak indeed.  It concerns a mission to bring an asteroid into earth orbit to serve as a de facto space station.  Protagonists and others like him find out that they can succeed and make a name for themselves in space, whereas at home on the ground they were misfits of no importance at all.  I really learned nothing at all from this tale.<br />\\"If This Goes On--\\" is one of Heinlein's most significant works, certainly among the Future History stories, and should not be missed by science fiction fans.  Its surreal setting seems fantastic to anyone whose spoken or unspoken belief is that \\"it can't happen here,\\" yet it provides an ever-timely warning against the dangers of extreme religious fanaticism gaining control over government.  It is ironic, though, that the story that truly dominates the subject matter of this book is a story that was not actually written-the rise to power of Nehemiah Scudder.  Heinlein's postscript about \\"stories never written\\" is actually more interesting than the shorter two stories included here.	2002-11-24
1329528:US	53016962	R1BH3LGEBESIYR	0330023527	504990077	Waldo (Pan science fiction)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Heinlein takes an early detour into fantasy	Here's something a little different from Heinlein, two extended stories from the early 1940s which incorporate significant helpings of fantasy.  \\"Waldo\\" is by far the better of the two selections.  Waldo F. Jones is a brilliant engineer and all-around genius, but he doesn't get along well with people.  Born with essentially no muscle control, he began inventing gadgets to help him perform common tasks as a child, and his inventions soon translated into commercial products.  He considers his fellow men to be rather ignorant \\"apes\\" who rely on him to continue living out their frivolous existences; only one man, Grimes, the doctor who delivered him, has direct contact with him in his free-floating home in space.  Away from the curse of gravity, Waldo is able to move around comfortably and make use of all sorts of gizmos of his own design to help him carry out his work.  He is a problem-solver of last resort; he always gets results, but his cold manner and contemptible attitude make him a hard man to deal with.  Power plant engineer James Stevens has little choice but to come to Waldo--the whole power supply of the country could fail at any time, and no one can figure out why the infallible power sources are failing.  Grimes talks him into working on another problem in conjunction with the project-getting rid of radiated energy that he deems harmful to mankind.  With a little help from a mysterious old man, Waldo discovers not only a solution to both problems but an entirely new way to understand reality.<br />\\"Magic, Inc.\\" is pure fantasy.  Virtually all businesses rely on magic to some degree, but there is a mysterious effort afoot to form a magic regulatory council, one capable of monopolizing magic, running out of businesses any magicians who refuse to join and inflating the prices of magical services rendered.  Archie finds his hardware store threatened and then trashed when he refuses to sign up for magical protection.  Just as the citizens begin examining the danger posed by such regulation of magic, the government seeks to ratify the plan and make it the law of the land.  Archie and his magically-inclined friend Jenson team up with an ancient, benign witch and an African witch doctor to put an end to the danger by exposing the reality behind its conception, even if it means going to hell to confront the very demon responsible for the trouble.<br />Both stories fall below Heinlein's normal standards, but \\"Waldo\\" proves fairly fascinating up until the closing pages when magic is turned loose in the world.  \\"Magic, Inc.\\" is just rather uninspired.  Still, it is interesting to see another side of Heinlein's work.  Since both stories fall short of wowing the reader, I would recommend reading this book only after becoming acquainted with Heinlein's more famous, visionary, and enjoyable science fiction.  This is fairly atypical, unimpressive storytelling from science fiction's greatest writer.anger posed by such regulation of magic, the government seeks to ratify the plan and make it the law of the land.  Archie and his magically-inclined friend Jenson team up with an ancient, benign witch and an African witch doctor to put an end to the danger by exposing the reality behind its conception, even if it means going to hell to confront the very demon responsible for the trouble.<br />Both stories fall below Heinlein's normal standards, but \\"Waldo\\" proves fairly fascinating up until the closing pages when magic is turned loose in the world.  \\"Magic, Inc.\\" is just rather uninspired.  Still, it is interesting to see another side of Heinlein's work.  Since both stories fall short of wowing the reader, I would recommend reading this book only after becoming acquainted with Heinlein's more famous, visionary, and enjoyable science fiction.  This is fairly atypical, unimpressive storytelling from science fiction's greatest writer.	2002-11-23
1330449:US	53016962	R22TIUY1OCGSMI	0743435613	344110456	Beyond This Horizon	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An early, noble effort that tries to do too much	Published in 1942, Beyond This Horizon gives clear evidence of the genius and writing power that Heinlein possessed, but this early novel is definitely less than perfect.  In the process of churning it out for publication in Astounding Stories (published under the pseudonym of Anson MacDonald), he privately confessed to editor John W. Campbell, Jr., that \\"it stinks.\\"  The ideas behind the story fascinated him, yet he struggled to distill a good story out of them.  It is my opinion that Heinlein set his sights too high for this short novel, as it basically revolves around the very reason for man's existence.  The premise is quite promising: genetic engineering has produced a \\"perfect\\" world, one free of disease, war, poverty, hunger, etc.  \\"All of them should have been happy,\\" as Heinlein begins the narrative, yet they are not.  The protagonist in particular is not happy and has no desire to bring children into a seemingly pointless existence.  This is a cause for concern for the local sociopolitical moderator because Hamilton Felix hails from a true star line of men.  His genetic code represents one of the more impressive accomplishments of social and genetic engineers working over the course of three centuries, and his line will be essentially perfected in the course of two successive generations-if he can be induced to father a child.  Of course, one of a very select group of females must be selected, and the chromosomes of the match must be carefully manipulated, but society needs him to reproduce.  In fact, the powers that be agree to begin a scientific search for the meaning of life in order to talk him into becoming a father.  Thrown into the mix of all this is an attempt to overthrow the government by a group of men intent on creating their own genetic ideals and a man from 1926 unfrozen and forced to adapt to a strange new world, a world in which, to his dismay, football no longer existed.<br />I found the story confusing at times.  For some reason, I could never keep the three most prominent characters straight.  The basis of society was never completely explained, although Heinlein used it to give voice to some rather unusual ideas.  For example, there was a convoluted, ritualized honor code between men who wore guns and those who did not; the concomitant notion that an armed man is a polite one is rather odd.  I enjoyed the passages in which Heinlein paused to offer limited explanations for such social realities, but I would like to have seen them further fleshed out.  I think it is worth nothing that the traditional means of procreation are never mentioned here, largely due to the editorial restrictions Heinlein was working under in the early days of his career.  Marriage itself is a peculiar institution in this world, especially in cases where genetically engineered individuals choose to marry inferior \\"naturals.\\"  The conclusion of the novel is rather weak yet satisfactory, rather inexplicably incorporating the concept of telepathy to serve as a deus ex machina.  Heinlein just tried to do too much with too many lofty ideas here, but these shortcomings are understandable given the fact that Heinlein was just then developing his writings skills and science fictional vision.d never keep the three most prominent characters straight.  The basis of society was never completely explained, although Heinlein used it to give voice to some rather unusual ideas.  For example, there was a convoluted, ritualized honor code between men who wore guns and those who did not; the concomitant notion that an armed man is a polite one is rather odd.  I enjoyed the passages in which Heinlein paused to offer limited explanations for such social realities, but I would like to have seen them further fleshed out.  I think it is worth nothing that the traditional means of procreation are never mentioned here, largely due to the editorial restrictions Heinlein was working under in the early days of his career.  Marriage itself is a peculiar institution in this world, especially in cases where genetically engineered individuals choose to marry inferior \\"naturals.\\"  The conclusion of the novel is rather weak yet satisfactory, rather inexplicably incorporating the concept of telepathy to serve as a deus ex machina.  Heinlein just tried to do too much with too many lofty ideas here, but these shortcomings are understandable given the fact that Heinlein was just then developing his writings skills and science fictional vision.	2002-11-22
1331650:US	53016962	RQ6HOJ9GSAA6U	0553262580	204357086	The God Project	Books	4	23	25	N	N	The novel that turned me into a horror fan	Even though this is not horror in the true sense of the word, The God Project holds the distinction of being the first book of its kind that I ever read.  If you asked me how and why I became a horror fan, I would point to this novel and credit it with introducing me to the genre I have come to love above all others.  Rereading The God Project now, the story still retains a lot of the qualities that gave birth to my fascination with dark fiction all those years ago.  This was Saul's sixth published novel, and its medical science fiction theme seems original and well-developed here; later Saul novels built upon a similar plot structure have always seemed rather derivative and thus less compelling in comparison.  The medical science Saul builds into this story seems rather impressive and believable, especially given that not too many writers were playing with DNA and genetic manipulation back in 1982.  The medical science Saul describes may be utter baloney, but he makes it sound realistic and possible, and that is what makes this book succeed as well as it does.<br />The basic story is not too complicated.  Sally Montgomery refuses to believe that her perfectly healthy little girl's death is due to SIDS.  Determined to find out what really killed her baby, she braves the disbelief and worry of her husband and mother to dig into what might have happened.  Meanwhile, Lucy Corliss' son Randy mysteriously disappears.  As a number of distraught parents of children either missing or dead come together, hints of a terrible conspiracy begin to emerge.  All of the children have been secretly studied by a mysterious entity called CHILD, and Sally uses her computer knowledge to dig up some troubling data from the kids' medical files.  Suspicion turns on the doctor who delivered all of the children in question, and the action and suspense builds steadily throughout the novel.  The reader gets a good idea about what is going on well before the main characters figure everything out, but Saul makes sure the ending is not anticlimactic.  There are several twists at the end, one of them masterfully disguised and thus unexpected.<br />I believe this is one of John Saul's very best novels, but my inability to know the answer to a few questions in my mind keeps me from giving it a perfect rating.  There was one element to the story that seemed important and quite fishy, but the story never went down the road I was looking for in that regard.  The epilogue, while compelling, is a little rushed, and that is another tiny flaw that I take into account in designating my personal rating.  Still, Saul caught be quite off-guard with one gotcha event toward the end, which really impressed me.  Just like the children involved in the God Project, this novel is almost perfect.  Anyone wanting to read Saul for the first time would do well to select this novel as his/her means of introduction.t, but Saul makes sure the ending is not anticlimactic.  There are several twists at the end, one of them masterfully disguised and thus unexpected.<br />I believe this is one of John Saul's very best novels, but my inability to know the answer to a few questions in my mind keeps me from giving it a perfect rating.  There was one element to the story that seemed important and quite fishy, but the story never went down the road I was looking for in that regard.  The epilogue, while compelling, is a little rushed, and that is another tiny flaw that I take into account in designating my personal rating.  Still, Saul caught be quite off-guard with one gotcha event toward the end, which really impressed me.  Just like the children involved in the God Project, this novel is almost perfect.  Anyone wanting to read Saul for the first time would do well to select this novel as his/her means of introduction.	2002-11-21
1333450:US	53016962	R2UN6L9B2ESJS8	0671578634	25118563	The Man Who Sold The Moon	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Luna City here we come	The Man Who Sold the Moon, the first entry in Heinlein's Future History, assembles six of Heinlein's earliest short stories from the late 1930s and 1940s.  All but one of these stories deal either directly or indirectly with the moon and the means of getting there.  Certainly, most of the scientific ideas Heinlein espouses here are obviously dated and untenable, but that really doesn't matter to me.  The excitement over the idea of leaving the confines of earth and traveling to the moon and planets is downright infectious and stimulating.  Mankind set foot on the moon a year before I was born, but Heinlein's stories really convey the passion and desire that yesterday's dreamers must have felt about an idea that was patently absurd to many people in 1950.  This amazing spirit, willful determination, and lifelong obsession to reach the moon are revealed most powerfully in the person of D.D. Harriman.  Harriman is the proverbial man who sold the moon, a man whose presence and influence is felt throughout the entire book.  The title story, almost the size of a novella, is an account of Harriman's bold plans and even bolder strategies for getting to the moon.  His wheelings and dealings for funds make for an enjoyable read; he has endless ideas for promoting the project and securing funds from any number of sources.  Here he is the embodiment of commercialism and steadfastness, but then, in \\"Requiem,\\" we see the human side of his character.  This story is a touching tribute of sorts to Harriman-stripped of all business guises, we see Harriman the dreamer, the little boy who looked up at the moon at night and swore that some day he would set foot on its surface.  \\"Requiem\\" is a more than appropriate title for this tribute to Harriman and his vision.<br />One thing you are going to need in order to reach the moon is fuel.  \\"Let There Be Light\\" describes the development of an unlimited power source.  \\"The Roads Must Roll\\" warns of the new kinds of dangers to be expected in a world of rapidly advancing technology; abundant energy does not eliminate the sometimes negative effects of human nature.  \\"Blowups Happen\\" is centered around the preeminent nuclear power plant in the world.  Any slip up here would lead to incomprehensible disaster, and workers there, especially the engineers who single-handedly keep the atomic reaction red-hot yet under control, are subject to total breakdowns caused by stress.  Each worker is supervised by a psychiatrist who has the authority to yank the guy from the job at the slightest hint of a mental hiccough.  It is here, though, that the rocket fuel needed for space travel is discovered, tying the story in nicely with the rest of those assembled here.  \\"Life-Line\\" is notable for being Heinlein's first published story; published in Astounding in 1939, the author received a rather impressive figure of $70 for it.  Its protagonist claims that he can scientifically foretell the time of any person's death, an idea which does not go over well with either academics or insurance agents.  The contempt expressed toward professional sciences is rather curious here.<br />With the exception of \\"Life-Line,\\" these stories are all interrelated.  D.D. Harriman is one of Heinlein's most memorable characters; I believe there is a lot of Heinlein in Harriman, and that is one reason these stories are as enjoyable now as they must have been upon publication.  As I said, the fact that man has already reached the moon by different means than Heinlein suggested here takes nothing away from the joy, wonder, and hopeful optimism that pervade all of these pages.  In fact, Heinlein rekindles the love of learning and dreaming that led to the types of scientific advancements we take for granted today and will lead to the astounding advances of tomorrow.n a world of rapidly advancing technology; abundant energy does not eliminate the sometimes negative effects of human nature.  \\"Blowups Happen\\" is centered around the preeminent nuclear power plant in the world.  Any slip up here would lead to incomprehensible disaster, and workers there, especially the engineers who single-handedly keep the atomic reaction red-hot yet under control, are subject to total breakdowns caused by stress.  Each worker is supervised by a psychiatrist who has the authority to yank the guy from the job at the slightest hint of a mental hiccough.  It is here, though, that the rocket fuel needed for space travel is discovered, tying the story in nicely with the rest of those assembled here.  \\"Life-Line\\" is notable for being Heinlein's first published story; published in Astounding in 1939, the author received a rather impressive figure of $70 for it.  Its protagonist claims that he can scientifically foretell the time of any person's death, an idea which does not go over well with either academics or insurance agents.  The contempt expressed toward professional sciences is rather curious here.  <br />With the exception of \\"Life-Line,\\" these stories are all interrelated.  D.D. Harriman is one of Heinlein's most memorable characters; I believe there is a lot of Heinlein in Harriman, and that is one reason these stories are as enjoyable now as they must have been upon publication.  As I said, the fact that man has already reached the moon by different means than Heinlein suggested here takes nothing away from the joy, wonder, and hopeful optimism that pervade all of these pages.  In fact, Heinlein rekindles the love of learning and dreaming that led to the types of scientific advancements we take for granted today and will lead to the astounding advances of tomorrow.	2002-11-20
1337118:US	53016962	R326TYOF8JAAVT	0345330137	387028775	Double Star	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Heinlein's 1956 Hugo Award winning novel	While Double Star did win the Hugo Award for the best science fiction novel of 1956, I would not call it one of Heinlein's most important works, nor would I rate it as highly as a good number of his other novels.  It's a great story, but it strikes me as rather peculiar.  There is not a great deal of science fiction in the book, for one thing.  More importantly, although the plot revolves around politics, Double Star is much less political than many of Heinlein's other novels.  No great questions are probed very deeply, and one finds oneself entertained more than intellectually stimulated or morally challenged.  Here's the story in a nutshell.  Lorenzo Smythe (aka The Great Lorenzo) is a fairly good actor currently down on his luck.  A seemingly chance encounter with a space man lands him a role he never dreamed of playing.  At first, he is only told that the job involves impersonating an important person.  Two dead men and one dead Martian later, he finds himself rather unhappily bound for Mars, and he soon learns that his assignment, which he has reluctantly agreed to, is to play none other than John Joseph Bonforte, the head of the Expansionist movement, a man loved and hated passionately throughout the solar system.  The real Bonforte has been kidnapped just days before an important event.  If Bonforte misses that event, in which he will be formally adopted into Mars' most prominent native family, all of the goals of the Expansionist movement may well be doomed to failure.  Smythe gives the performance of his life, but his hopes of returning home are squashed when the real Bonforte is recovered in very bad health.  Smythe is asked to continue the charade just a little longer.  One thing leads to another, and he finds himself essentially becoming Bonforte, holding the Expansionist party together by his presence and working to make Bonforte's goals a reality.  His original self had no interest in politics and had a natural aversion to Martians, but Smythe changes fundamentally as his command performance extends from one encore after another.<br />Some readers may say that there is too much politics in this book; this is true only insofar as the story is about politics.  I really would not call the story political at all.  Besides expressing an argument for the equality of all members of the empire, be they Martian, Venusian, Jovian, Terran, etc., the story is relatively free of the types of political and philosophical arguments that typify many of Heinlein's later novels.  Those readers uninterested in politics should not pass this novel over out of a fear of politicization.  Double Star is a very entertaining story and a fairly quick read.  There is nothing earth-shattering or conscience paradigm-shifting about it, and that is the reason I am somewhat surprised that it received the Hugo award.  This actually would be a good crossover introduction to Heinlein for readers not interested in science fiction in and of itself.fundamentally as his command performance extends from one encore after another.<br />Some readers may say that there is too much politics in this book; this is true only insofar as the story is about politics.  I really would not call the story political at all.  Besides expressing an argument for the equality of all members of the empire, be they Martian, Venusian, Jovian, Terran, etc., the story is relatively free of the types of political and philosophical arguments that typify many of Heinlein's later novels.  Those readers uninterested in politics should not pass this novel over out of a fear of politicization.  Double Star is a very entertaining story and a fairly quick read.  There is nothing earth-shattering or conscience paradigm-shifting about it, and that is the reason I am somewhat surprised that it received the Hugo award.  This actually would be a good crossover introduction to Heinlein for readers not interested in science fiction in and of itself.	2002-11-17
1337326:US	53016962	R2UDQ1J7JSJ97Q	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	5	188	196	N	N	The best time travel novel ever written	There have been many science fiction novels written about time travel, but The Door Into Summer is my pick for the greatest among them.  It comes remarkably close to conveying the very theory of the subject in layman's terms.  I'm not saying Heinlein's arguments are correct, but they darn near make sense.  The experiment with the two coins and with the two guinea pigs (just one, actually) is fascinating, and Heinlein's introduction of several paradoxes in the protagonist's actual temporal dislocation lends his science even more believability.  Time travel doesn't even enter into the pages of the first half of the novel (not directly, at least), but the whole story is totally engrossing from the very start.  Dan is an engineer and a darn good one.  His inventions have been designed with the view of easing the housework of women everywhere: Hired Girl cleans floor; Window Willie washes windows, and Flexible Frank, his newest creation, will be able to do just about anything around the house, from changing a diaper to washing dishes.  Life seemed to be treating Dan pretty well.  Then his fiance and business partner swindle him out of their business, and he decides to take the Long Sleep (cryogenic suspended animation) for thirty years so that he can come back to chastise an ex-fiance who will be thirty years older than he will be.  Of course, he won't do it without his best friend Pete, his feisty, ginger ale-loving tomcat and true friend.  He sends his remaining shares in the company he created to his partner's young daughter Ricky, his only other friend in the world, trying to make sure that those don't fall into the wrong hands as well.  His only mistake is in confronting his traitorous friends one last time.  He gets the Long Sleep all right, but he wakes up in 2000 without any money and without Pete.  He starts trying to find Ricky and start a new life, but he eventually, prompted by subtle clues to things that will have taken place, works up a plan to journey back in time and change things-of course, he won't really be changing things because they have actually already happened.  It's so much easier to time travel when you know everything you will have done before doing it.<br /><br />I love this novel.  It's brilliant the way he works in clues to Dan's future past, and Heinlein's discussion of time travel is enough to make anyone a fanatic about the subject.  When I think about time travel, I continue to think of this novel and its simple experimental analogies of coins and guinea pigs.  It's mind-boggling yet completely comprehensible.  I also love animals, and good old Pete is one of the most memorable feline characters in the universe of fiction.  Finally, the concept of the title is well-nigh epiphanous (if I may coin a word).  Dan explains how Pete would make him open every door in his house whenever it snowed, convinced that behind one of those doors it will be summer time.  Dan describes all of his adventures as his own search for the Door Into Summer.  The only possible explanation I can formulate as to why this novel did not win the Hugo for best science fiction novel of 1957 is the fact that Heinlein won the award the previous year for Double Star and could not comfortably be given the award two years in a row.  The Door Into Summer is much better than Double Star; in fact, it is much better than all but a handful of science fiction novels ever published.in time and change things-of course, he won't really be changing things because they have actually already happened.  It's so much easier to time travel when you know everything you will have done before doing it.    I love this novel.  It's brilliant the way he works in clues to Dan's future past, and Heinlein's discussion of time travel is enough to make anyone a fanatic about the subject.  When I think about time travel, I continue to think of this novel and its simple experimental analogies of coins and guinea pigs.  It's mind-boggling yet completely comprehensible.  I also love animals, and good old Pete is one of the most memorable feline characters in the universe of fiction.  Finally, the concept of the title is well-nigh epiphanous (if I may coin a word).  Dan explains how Pete would make him open every door in his house whenever it snowed, convinced that behind one of those doors it will be summer time.  Dan describes all of his adventures as his own search for the Door Into Summer.  The only possible explanation I can formulate as to why this novel did not win the Hugo for best science fiction novel of 1957 is the fact that Heinlein won the award the previous year for Double Star and could not comfortably be given the award two years in a row.  The Door Into Summer is much better than Double Star; in fact, it is much better than all but a handful of science fiction novels ever published.	2002-11-17
1337737:US	53016962	R3CUIMM7R1RKZV	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	5	100	102	N	N	The uncut version of Heinleins's classic juvenile novel	Red Planet is one of Heinlein's most enjoyable, best selling, and important juvenile novels.  It's hard to think of it as juvenile fiction, though, because it is a fantastically fun read which introduces thought-provoking ideas on sociological and otherwise adult subjects.  Of course, this was not always the case.  Alice Dalgliesh, Heinlein's editor at Scriber's, objected to several themes and ideas in the original manuscript, much to Heinlein's justified consternation.  He eventually gave in and removed several sections, including a couple of pages about the legal use of guns by the young boys in his Martian world and a section centering on the production of eggs by the fuzzy little bouncer Willis--she eliminated every mention of sex in the book, despite the fact that each such mention was beyond innocuous.  Heinlein floated the idea of listing her as the co-author, wanting her to take some of the blame for a novel that he himself felt no pride for, fearing that Dalgliesh's hatchet job had produced a story that would harm his reputation.  It actually became a fan favorite, and now we can read it complete and unedited, the way RAH originally intended it to be read.<br />Jim Marlowe is a youngster living on Mars, and he has a \\"pet\\"-friend named Willis. Willis is a \\"bouncer,\\" a furry little guy of some intelligence whose most amazing quality is an innate capability to reproduce exactly anything he hears.  Jim takes Willis with him when he and his friend Frank go off to school.  The new headmaster makes life miserable for all the boys with his military discipline, and he has the audacity to take Willis away from Jim and lock him away in his office.  A bold rescue attempt by the brave lads manages to recover Willis before the headmaster sells him off to the London Zoo, but the friends' joy soon turns to surprise when Willis plays back a conversation he overheard about the Company putting an end to the seasonal migrations on Mars.  This means that Jim's family in the South will be forced to remain where they are all winter, where the temperature easily falls below one hundred degrees freezing.  Now it is up to the boys to escape from the school and somehow find their way back home (hundreds of miles away) and inform their families of the Company's intentions.  Only their bravery and a little help from Mars' unique native inhabitants give them a chance to save the day.  The Martians are fascinating in and of themselves; needless to say, they are something entirely different from little green men.<br />This is speculative fiction.  It doesn't really matter that we now know that Mars is totally unlike the Mars of Heinlein's story.  This is just a riveting adventure of two brave boys and their unusual friend.  The story could work in any number of settings.  The science is there to build the framework, but Heinlein never indulges in any significant scientific pontifications.  I have no problem enjoying Heinlein's juvenile fiction, largely because the pace of the narrative rarely slows down from start to finish.  This is certainly the type of story I loved as a boy, and I still love it.  Despite Scribner's editor Dalgliesh's misgivings, the unexpurgated text of Red Planet is a wonderful story of loyalty, honor, duty, family, adventure, mutual respect between cultures, scientific knowledge, freedom, and liberty--the very best type of tale for youngsters to read and enjoy then, now, and forever.  I can hardly even guess at how many youngsters became life-long science fiction fans as a direct result of having read this incredible novel.th will be forced to remain where they are all winter, where the temperature easily falls below one hundred degrees freezing.  Now it is up to the boys to escape from the school and somehow find their way back home (hundreds of miles away) and inform their families of the Company's intentions.  Only their bravery and a little help from Mars' unique native inhabitants give them a chance to save the day.  The Martians are fascinating in and of themselves; needless to say, they are something entirely different from little green men.<br />This is speculative fiction.  It doesn't really matter that we now know that Mars is totally unlike the Mars of Heinlein's story.  This is just a riveting adventure of two brave boys and their unusual friend.  The story could work in any number of settings.  The science is there to build the framework, but Heinlein never indulges in any significant scientific pontifications.  I have no problem enjoying Heinlein's juvenile fiction, largely because the pace of the narrative rarely slows down from start to finish.  This is certainly the type of story I loved as a boy, and I still love it.  Despite Scribner's editor Dalgliesh's misgivings, the unexpurgated text of Red Planet is a wonderful story of loyalty, honor, duty, family, adventure, mutual respect between cultures, scientific knowledge, freedom, and liberty--the very best type of tale for youngsters to read and enjoy then, now, and forever.  I can hardly even guess at how many youngsters became life-long science fiction fans as a direct result of having read this incredible novel.	2002-11-16
1337948:US	53016962	R24QFMXVJFX68V	0345301951	949759488	Starburst	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Starburst is a bust	The idea behind this novel struck me as quite original, innovative, and promising.  Four couples are selected to journey to a newly-discovered planet (dubbed Alpha-Aleph) orbiting Alpha Centauri and eventually return to earth as heroes.  In actuality, there is no planet Alpha-Aleph to be explored, and the astronauts are not going to be coming back to earth at all.  The man behind the mission is a German named Knefhausen, and he serves the President of the United States.  There is nothing united about America, though; the president controls the area around Washington, D.C., while the rest of the nation is split up into fiercely divided autonomies controlled by diverse factions.  Knefhausen has somehow convinced the astronauts that recreational advanced math is the most joyous way to spend an otherwise twenty-plus year space journey-the plan is for the astronauts to make some gigantic scientific discoveries which can be transmitted back to earth and put to use by the president in a bid to unite the country and restore true power to the presidency.  The astronauts do indeed make some great theoretical and engineering leaps, but their interests and activities quickly turn toward carnal, philosophical, and other pursuits practically useless for Knefhausen's purposes.  When the explorers discover that they have been hoodwinked into undertaking an unethical forced suicide mission, Knefhausen's plans go distinctly awry.<br />The increasingly tawdry (as well as ridiculously unbelievable) nature of the astronauts' accomplishments quickly neutralizes the interesting ideas Pohl puts forth.  These eight space pioneers accomplish some amazing things on their own, yet carnal pursuits become so prevalent that their offspring begin having children of their own by the age of six or eight.  Pohl did create opportunities in which he could have resurrected the integrity of the story, but he did not take advantage of them in my mind.  The ending is not so much a climax as a gradual declension which neither satisfied nor impressed me.  I really like the premise of this novel, even though it seems rather foolish to think that a long period of forced isolation is all one needs in order to perform mathematical and scientific miracles (not to mention the fact that advanced math is hardly conducive to anything remotely resembling recreation).  The idea hardly even applies here because the astronauts are increasingly at each other's throats, and the addition of dozens of children inside the small spaceship produces a situation which I would call the exact opposite of isolation.  There are a couple of interesting mathematical concepts buried in the text, but I would be hard pressed to give this book the label of hard science fiction.  Ultimately, this potentially compelling story goes nowhere and then dejectedly shambles off to the side at the end.lension which neither satisfied nor impressed me.  I really like the premise of this novel, even though it seems rather foolish to think that a long period of forced isolation is all one needs in order to perform mathematical and scientific miracles (not to mention the fact that advanced math is hardly conducive to anything remotely resembling recreation).  The idea hardly even applies here because the astronauts are increasingly at each other's throats, and the addition of dozens of children inside the small spaceship produces a situation which I would call the exact opposite of isolation.  There are a couple of interesting mathematical concepts buried in the text, but I would be hard pressed to give this book the label of hard science fiction.  Ultimately, this potentially compelling story goes nowhere and then dejectedly shambles off to the side at the end.	2002-11-16
1339290:US	53016962	R1DF5NYBII3GFN	0671578537	817159383	The Green Hills of Earth	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Classic early short stories by Heinlein	Robert Heinlein was writing great science fiction before a lot of people even knew what it was.  The Green Hills of Earth features ten early short stories from the 1940s; all of these stories are set in outer space, but these are more sociological and entertaining than technical in the way of hard science fiction.  In \\"Delilah and the Space Rigger,\\" the head of the space station construction project is horrified to discover that his new engineer is a woman.  His fear of having one woman working among a crew of 200 men is never alleviated, but the modern-day Delilah makes good use of her undeniable engineering skills to win a victory of sorts in the end.  \\"Space Jockey\\" is basically a story of a space pilot and his stay-at-home wife.  It basically explores the issues of a traditional marriage in which the husband is away from home more than either partner would like for him to be.  These two stories' treatment of women is far from sexist in my opinion.  \\"The Long Watch\\" and \\"Gentlemen, Be Seated\\" are stories of bravery and heroism.  In the first, a spaceman risks his radiation-vulnerable life to stop a military coup from taking place, while the second describes the heroism of three men trapped in a tunnel collapse in Luna City.  \\"The Black Pits of Luna\\" is a story of a normal family whose youngest son (referred to lovingly as \\"the brat\\") wanders off by himself on a tour of the moon.  The search for the little guy offers us some clues as to what sorts of qualities a space man should have (as well as the qualities of individuals who should never have been allowed on the moon to start with).<br />\\"It's Great to be Back\\" is enjoyable yet wholly predictable.  After three years on the moon, a couple absolutely yearns to go back home to earth, only to find that their idea of home has changed immensely during their sojourn in Luna City.  \\"-We Also Walk Dogs\\" is probably the most singular story in this collection.  General Services basically serves any request made by its customers, offering a service borne of the old tradition of walking dogs for rich folks.  Their commitment to do whatever job needs to be done is put to the ultimate test when a bureaucrat asks them to make hay with the laws of gravity in order to pave the way for an ultra-important international business meeting on earth.  \\"Ordeal in Space\\" is another hero story-\\"Mr. Saunders\\" is a space hero who has become deathly afraid of heights as the result of a terribly frightening yet heroic ordeal above the earth.  He is so afraid of heights that he can't even look up at the sky without getting queasy.  When he reluctantly accepts a dinner invitation and ends up spending the night in an apartment 35 stories above the ground, the meowing of a kitten stuck out on the ledge challenges him to overcome his fears.  As an acrophobic person myself, it was all I could do to get through some of Heinlein's realistic descriptions of the heights involved in this kitten rescue mission.  \\"The Green Hills of Earth\\" is the story of the unofficial poet laureate of outer space, but I found it to be the only slightly disappointing story in the book.  Finally, \\"Logic of Empire\\" rounds out the collection.  Humphrey Wingate gets into a heated discussion about the reality of indentured servitude on Venus, refusing to see it as a modern form of chattel slavery.  When his friend asks him to put his money where his mouth is, he has the great misfortune of being very drunk.  Upon awakening, he finds himself on a ship bound for Venus, where he quickly develops a brand new standpoint on the subject of Venusian servitude.<br />These are all great stories which the passage of time has not hurt one iota.  Set in a science fiction setting, they are all essentially stories of people and their interaction with one another.  Any fan of Heinlein or science fiction in general is missing a rare treat if he/she overlooks The Green Hills of Earth.ustomers, offering a service borne of the old tradition of walking dogs for rich folks.  Their commitment to do whatever job needs to be done is put to the ultimate test when a bureaucrat asks them to make hay with the laws of gravity in order to pave the way for an ultra-important international business meeting on earth.  \\"Ordeal in Space\\" is another hero story-\\"Mr. Saunders\\" is a space hero who has become deathly afraid of heights as the result of a terribly frightening yet heroic ordeal above the earth.  He is so afraid of heights that he can't even look up at the sky without getting queasy.  When he reluctantly accepts a dinner invitation and ends up spending the night in an apartment 35 stories above the ground, the meowing of a kitten stuck out on the ledge challenges him to overcome his fears.  As an acrophobic person myself, it was all I could do to get through some of Heinlein's realistic descriptions of the heights involved in this kitten rescue mission.  \\"The Green Hills of Earth\\" is the story of the unofficial poet laureate of outer space, but I found it to be the only slightly disappointing story in the book.  Finally, \\"Logic of Empire\\" rounds out the collection.  Humphrey Wingate gets into a heated discussion about the reality of indentured servitude on Venus, refusing to see it as a modern form of chattel slavery.  When his friend asks him to put his money where his mouth is, he has the great misfortune of being very drunk.  Upon awakening, he finds himself on a ship bound for Venus, where he quickly develops a brand new standpoint on the subject of Venusian servitude.<br />These are all great stories which the passage of time has not hurt one iota.  Set in a science fiction setting, they are all essentially stories of people and their interaction with one another.  Any fan of Heinlein or science fiction in general is missing a rare treat if he/she overlooks The Green Hills of Earth.	2002-11-15
1341606:US	53016962	R35HVIEF66F434	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	474	501	N	N	Action-packed and thought-provoking reading	For me, Starship Troopers is all the proof you need in order to name Robert Heinlein science fiction's greatest writer.  I am getting in the bad habit of naming specific Heinlein books to be his very best, only to find that the next novel I pick up is even better than the last one.  This particular novel is fascinating on a number of levels.  There is nothing really special about Johnnie Rico; he's a normal lad who decides to join the military, ostensibly at the time in order to gain citizenship.  In this future Terran confederation, only those who serve in the military are awarded citizenship and granted the privilege to vote.  The government actually discourages volunteers and makes boot camp so difficult that only men with proper soldier qualities get through it.  On the broadest level, we see Rico's progression from harrowed recruit to active service in the Mobile Infantry to combat against the Klendathu.  I have no military background at all, but I found Heinlein's descriptions of military life and actual combat to be detailed and thrilling.  We watch Johnnie Rico become a soldier.  Along the way, he figures out why he actually did volunteer, developing a whole new outlook on duty and responsibility.<br />I don't want to delve too deeply into the politics of this novel.  Some have pinned a fascist connotation on it, but I try to examine this future society philosophically.  Only those who serve in the military can vote, but the vast majority of people choose not to serve and live happy lives as civilians, so I don't see anything fascist about this society.  What intrigues me most, and it is this that sets this book apart from the vast majority of science fiction, is Heinlein's thought-provoking ideas about ethics, morality, duty, responsibility, etc.  Mr. Dubois, Ricco's high school instructor in History and Moral Philosophy (a required course for all) gets in the ring and dukes it out with Plato, John Locke, and a host of other political thinkers.  He argues that man has no natural moral instinct; morality is acquired by the individual and is an elaboration of the instinct to survive.  If an individual is not taught the lessons of living in society, he will not learn that the basis of all morality is duty.  In this way he criticizes the democracies of the late twentieth century and explains their ultimate failure.  The promotion of the idea that certain natural rights are necessarily due each person caused young people to neglect their duties--by concentrating on the rights they think are due them.  Liberty and freedom must be earned and paid for, and democracies failed because they did not understand this basic tenet.  These kinds of ideas are the source of most of the criticisms directed toward Starship Troopers.  I found many cogent arguments in the novel; criticism of democracy is not an endorsement of totalitarianism.  Many would agree with some of the ideas Mr. Dubois puts forth (and which find their way into various places elsewhere in the book), but any agreement or disagreement should be purely intellectual.  Great fiction is supposed to make us think deeply about important concepts, and Starship Troopers succeeds admirably in that regard.<br />Thus, Starship Troopers provides science fiction fans the best of both worlds.  On the one hand, we have the well-told, gripping story of one man's military journey from boot camp to battlefields of war light years away from home, replete with several intense combat scenes.  On the other hand, we have ideas of a political and philosophical nature laid out extremely well by the author, which is all but guaranteed to make you seriously think about society, government, and warfare.  In the end, duty and responsibility are stressed if not glorified, and I find nothing at all subversive in that.  Heinlein tells a fascinating story, and he makes you think, whether you want to or not.  Few are the writers who can claim such lofty credentials.hat man has no natural moral instinct; morality is acquired by the individual and is an elaboration of the instinct to survive.  If an individual is not taught the lessons of living in society, he will not learn that the basis of all morality is duty.  In this way he criticizes the democracies of the late twentieth century and explains their ultimate failure.  The promotion of the idea that certain natural rights are necessarily due each person caused young people to neglect their duties--by concentrating on the rights they think are due them.  Liberty and freedom must be earned and paid for, and democracies failed because they did not understand this basic tenet.  These kinds of ideas are the source of most of the criticisms directed toward Starship Troopers.  I found many cogent arguments in the novel; criticism of democracy is not an endorsement of totalitarianism.  Many would agree with some of the ideas Mr. Dubois puts forth (and which find their way into various places elsewhere in the book), but any agreement or disagreement should be purely intellectual.  Great fiction is supposed to make us think deeply about important concepts, and Starship Troopers succeeds admirably in that regard.  <br />Thus, Starship Troopers provides science fiction fans the best of both worlds.  On the one hand, we have the well-told, gripping story of one man's military journey from boot camp to battlefields of war light years away from home, replete with several intense combat scenes.  On the other hand, we have ideas of a political and philosophical nature laid out extremely well by the author, which is all but guaranteed to make you seriously think about society, government, and warfare.  In the end, duty and responsibility are stressed if not glorified, and I find nothing at all subversive in that.  Heinlein tells a fascinating story, and he makes you think, whether you want to or not.  Few are the writers who can claim such lofty credentials.	2002-11-13
1344826:US	53016962	R26754F7GQBPN4	0449005909	38926947	Nightshade	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A masterful novel of psychological horror	With Nightshade, John Saul gets back to what he does best, giving birth to a story almost as chilling and compelling as his premier masterpiece Suffer the Children.  Forget biomedical experimentation, genetic manipulation, and all of the other external forces that often lie behind Saul's plots; this book marks a return to good old-fashioned madness and horror.  Of course, we start with the perfect all-American family-Joan Moore Hapgood, her son Matt, and husband Bill who has always thought of his step-son as his own true son.  Suddenly, Joan's grim, bitter, nasty, Alzheimer's-afflicted mother almost burns her own house down and comes to live with the Hapgoods.  Emily Moore is obsessed with her daughter Cynthia, the perfect child whom she refuses to believe is never coming back home to her.  Immediately, Matt's nights are filled with the horrible nightmares he had not experienced since leaving Emily's home as a child to move to the home of his new step-father.  Watching his mother-in-law tearing his happy family apart, Bill simply leaves his wife and son to the misery of Emily's company.  A series of tragedies unfolds, affecting not only the family but the entire close-knit community.  Matt changes into a haunted young man, seeing suspicion and dislike pointed toward him from everyone he has ever cared about.  Misery turns to the ultimate tragedy, and the reader is left to ponder just who is responsible.  Is it Matt, who looks guilty in the eyes of everyone else?  Is it his aunt Cynthia, whose presence comes to permeate the house and exert an unhealthy influence on Matt's life in spite of the fact that she is long-dead?  Or could it be someone or something else?<br />Saul hits a home run with this novel.  Whatever suspicions the reader entertains, the truth is never truly known in spite of its foreshadowing, not until the ultimate conclusion.  As the plot progresses, Saul slowly but surely increases the tension, drawing the reader further and further into this fascinating story.  One is never really sure what to think about the action as it unfolds.  Even when the true source of the horror is revealed a couple of chapters before the end, the heightened sense of expectation and worry for the characters so well-presented and seemingly real continues unabated.  To some degree this is a ghost story, but it is better described as psychological horror.  Madness makes for a much more compelling villain than outside entities, and that is why Nightshade stands as one of John Saul's most compelling novels.  Filled with insanity, ghostly impressions, terror, murder, a bit of blood and gore, and a surprise or two at the end, Nightshade reveals the true talent that resides in the mind of an author too little appreciated by the horror community.ating story.  One is never really sure what to think about the action as it unfolds.  Even when the true source of the horror is revealed a couple of chapters before the end, the heightened sense of expectation and worry for the characters so well-presented and seemingly real continues unabated.  To some degree this is a ghost story, but it is better described as psychological horror.  Madness makes for a much more compelling villain than outside entities, and that is why Nightshade stands as one of John Saul's most compelling novels.  Filled with insanity, ghostly impressions, terror, murder, a bit of blood and gore, and a surprise or two at the end, Nightshade reveals the true talent that resides in the mind of an author too little appreciated by the horror community.	2002-11-11
1345205:US	53016962	R2GTG7PP6B2Y7S	0937986771	599409396	Dark Cry of the Moon	Books	3	3	3	N	N	No more than your average werewolf tale	There's really not a whole heck of a lot you can do with a werewolf tale.  Full moon, the change, silver bullets, all that stuff.  This short novel by Charles L. Grant is just an average werewolf story told in the traditional style.  Regrettably, the book gets off to a very bad start, in my opinion.  It was hard to keep the characters straight as I was transported back and forth between them, and I also had trouble picturing the setting of the action in place and time.  After about twenty pages, the story settled down into a decent rhythm, and things finally started making more sense to me.  It is obvious from the start that the string of murders in town is the work of a werewolf.  Basically, you have to wait for the authorities, namely Chief Lucas Stockton, to become convinced of the true nature of the beast.  Once that inevitably happens, the only remaining question concerns the identity of the afflicted man.  There are a few choices we are given to consider, but I thought the truth was a little obvious long before the conclusion played itself out.  This isn't a bad novel, but it isn't a particularly good one either.  It can ably serve as a quick diversion, but basically it is a rather forgettable work of fiction.	2002-11-10
1346129:US	53016962	R1XAGP9LO2SFTG	0345454073	616758950	The Homing	Books	2	8	9	N	N	The buzz you hear is the monotony of the narrative	I've read about ten of Saul's novels, and The Homing is definitely my least favorite.  The story is indeed far-fetched, but what ruins this novel for me is the sheer monotony of its action.  The same thing happens to one character after another.  Here's the backdrop: Karen Spellman moves her two daughters from L.A. back to the farming community she grew up in when she marries an old flame; naturally, her teenaged daughter Julie does not want to leave the big city for life on a farm.  Julie likes her new step-father well enough, though, and she and her step-brother get along very well (a little too well for step-siblings, if you know what I mean).  Her step-grandfather basically hates these new women moving into his dead daughter-in-law's house, but that's not really important.  What is important here are bees and all kinds of other insects.  First young Mollie is stung by a bee at the wedding and almost dies; only a new, definitely non-FDA approved antivenom saves her.  Then Julie is stung, and she has quite a unique reaction to the antivenom.  She appears to be perfectly healthy, but she actually feels miserable; worst of all, she inexplicably cannot tell anyone how she really feels, parroting out \\"I'm fine\\" phrases against her will to everyone.  She starts to wonder if she is going crazy, begins doing things against her will, etc.  This mystery ailment strikes one teenager after another-every single time, we have to go through the whole routine once again-teen feels awful, appears normal, can't tell anyone the truth, fears he/she is going insane, begins acting weird.  It's like reading the same chapter over and over again, the only difference being the name of the character each time.  That monotony is what ruined the novel for me.<br />As for the larger story, it is pretty unrealistic.  The death and suffering the reader witnesses is rather out of the ordinary, though.  I have one word for you: insects.  If you absolutely love insects-bees, ants, scorpions, spiders, mosquitoes, etc.-this is the book for you.  If you have some kind of phobia about insects, you will probably want to steer clear of this one.  Insects are everywhere in this book, doing all of the worst things you can think of them doing; it's intense enough to make you start itching and feeling things crawling all over you.  The story gets slightly gory a time or two, but for the most part the horror just makes you uncomfortable.  I think there is also too much of it; Saul goes into detail about the behavior of the insects time after time after time.<br />I am a John Saul fan, but I don't think the storyline here really succeeds.  Even if you cut out a couple hundred pages of monotony, I don't think the premise behind everything would hold up very well.  Characterization is another weakness here.  Karen picks up and leaves L.A. to marry an old sweetheart, but we really don't see any romance between the two; their relationship clearly exists, but we don't get a real look at it.  A lot of the dialogue seems forced at times, individuals keep doing the same dumb things over and over again and then going on and on about their bad decisions.  I watched these characters move about and interact with one another, but I never really got to know (let alone care about) a single one of them.  That is basically the third strike that makes this novel rather disappointing to me.  If you buy into the insect foundation of the plot here, you may well enjoy the book.  I did not buy into it, and nothing else about the book succeeded in rallying me to its cause.  Saul never seemed to put his heart into The Homing, and it shows.  I'm still a Saul fan, but this is definitely my least favorite of his novels.rs, mosquitoes, etc.-this is the book for you.  If you have some kind of phobia about insects, you will probably want to steer clear of this one.  Insects are everywhere in this book, doing all of the worst things you can think of them doing; it's intense enough to make you start itching and feeling things crawling all over you.  The story gets slightly gory a time or two, but for the most part the horror just makes you uncomfortable.  I think there is also too much of it; Saul goes into detail about the behavior of the insects time after time after time. <br />I am a John Saul fan, but I don't think the storyline here really succeeds.  Even if you cut out a couple hundred pages of monotony, I don't think the premise behind everything would hold up very well.  Characterization is another weakness here.  Karen picks up and leaves L.A. to marry an old sweetheart, but we really don't see any romance between the two; their relationship clearly exists, but we don't get a real look at it.  A lot of the dialogue seems forced at times, individuals keep doing the same dumb things over and over again and then going on and on about their bad decisions.  I watched these characters move about and interact with one another, but I never really got to know (let alone care about) a single one of them.  That is basically the third strike that makes this novel rather disappointing to me.  If you buy into the insect foundation of the plot here, you may well enjoy the book.  I did not buy into it, and nothing else about the book succeeded in rallying me to its cause.  Saul never seemed to put his heart into The Homing, and it shows.  I'm still a Saul fan, but this is definitely my least favorite of his novels.	2002-11-09
1348323:US	53016962	RVOS461THJDA6	0938681028	335209696	Poodle Owners Medical Manual	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Excellent reference book on poodle health	This is an excellent medical reference book for poodle owners, but it is rather technical and clinical.  Information is arranged alphabetically by topic, so it can sometimes be difficult to find what you are looking for if you don't already know the exact, sometimes medical, term.  This is by no means a how-to guide for raising and caring for poodles, nor does it purport itself to be such a book.  If your veterinarian mentions a specific condition or you hear about something afflicting another breed and wonder if it is something that can affect poodles (e.g., tracheal collapse), there is no better resource than this book.  It also does a very good job of contrasting conditions and their effects on poodles of various sizes.  When you know the condition, it is easy to learn about the symptoms; if you are observing symptoms in your poodle, though, it is not altogether easy to find what conditions the symptoms might point to.<br />Thus, as wonderful as this book is, it is not a practical guide for keeping your poodles healthy.  For this reason, I do not believe this is a book that all poodles' humans should rush out and buy.  A pet first aid book is much more practical and potentially life-saving, and the clinical presentation of the information in this medical manual will probably put off a good many people.  Breeders will find this book much more useful than typical poodle owners will.	2002-11-07
1353475:US	53016962	R6FPJXTYZM70A	0553297260	930846644	Darkness	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Too predictable to be compelling	Although the underlying premise of this novel is rather ridiculous when you think about it, Saul manages to make the story work.  It's not terribly thrilling or suspenseful, however.  There is no surprise to be found in the conclusion because the clues to what mysteries this tale contains are glaringly obvious early on.  Darkness is Saul's take on the old eternal life theme.  While the Dark Man is rather creepy and mysterious early on, his true identity, purposes, and methods are revealed halfway through the book, leaving the reader with a long sprint toward a finish line of foregone conclusions.  The medical and scientific aspects here are rather laughable, really, and a little inconsistent (not to mention somewhat disgusting) in the end.<br />The setting of the novel both helps and hurts it.  Most of the action takes place in the Florida swamps, a setting I myself find quite unappealing (although Saul has tourists lining up to explore the dangerous, disgusting swamps, small children and babies in tow).  It's certainly creepy, what with all the strange sounds and movements taking place in the dark shadows, not to mention alligators, crocodiles, water moccasins, and other deadly beasts roiling and slithering their way through all of the actions.  I got a little tired of one individual after another getting lost and trying to find his/her way home in this ruthless environment, though.  As soon as one person turned up, another ran out and got lost, starting the whole swamp search ordeal over again.<br />I can't voice my criticisms of the story without giving too much away.  I will just say that this novel is much less believable than most of Saul's fiction.  For that reason it didn't strike too strong of a chord in me personally; the fact that the main plot twists and ultimate conclusion were so obvious also left the novel incapable of truly grasping my complete attention and fascination.  In less talented hands, this story could easily fail miserably because of its flimsy relationship with reality, but, as I said, John Saul makes it work.  I was in no great hurry to reach the conclusion, but I also never felt compelled to toss the book aside without finishing it.  If you've never read Saul before, I wouldn't recommend letting Darkness be your introduction to his work-it is not quite up to his normally high standards.flimsy relationship with reality, but, as I said, John Saul makes it work.  I was in no great hurry to reach the conclusion, but I also never felt compelled to toss the book aside without finishing it.   If you've never read Saul before, I wouldn't recommend letting Darkness be your introduction to his work-it is not quite up to his normally high standards.	2002-11-03
1353951:US	53016962	R1QZZC82U9XU0J	0449005836	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Typical John Saul--too typical, in fact	Saul's The Right Hand of Evil left me rather unmoved.  It's a fairly enjoyable read, but it cannot be called highly original, scary, or awe-inspiring.  This is pretty typical John Saul.  A dysfunctional family of five-an alcoholic father, rather weak mother, a pair of adolescent twins, and an infant-faces desperation when Ted loses yet another job as a hotel assistant manager due to his drinking.  Then comes a call that Ted's aunt, shut up in a sanitarium for decades, is dying.  Suddenly, the family inherits a large, old house which Ted decides to make into an inn with the money left to him by an aunt he cared nothing about.  Of course, trouble begins brewing immediately.  The close-knit townspeople of St. Albans do not want anyone living in that evil house, abandoned for forty years-especially not another Conway.  Conways in that house have always meant big, big trouble for the town; stories of murder and evil surround the old house, as do hidden eyes watching and biding their time.  Hated and shunned by the whole community, her husband drinking more heavily than ever, Janet decides to take her children and finally leave.  Miraculously, though, she finds that her husband Ted seems to have finally changed completely and given up alcohol.  For the first time, the family begins to enjoy a normal life of sorts, but burgeoning happiness soon recedes back into terror as Jared, the first-born son begins to change, seemingly taking on all of the bad qualities his father has just overcome.<br />There's a story behind the history of the house, of course, one going back over a century (no surprise here; the whole ancient curse theme is Saul's trademark plot point).  We gradually learn exactly what has taken place in the house, but this particular puzzle has few pieces missing to begin with.  The tenor of things to come is never really in doubt, although I have no real criticism of the conclusion, which Saul pulled off fairly well.  Saul goes all the way this time to give us the ultimate Evil, but his efforts were not quite up to the lofty challenge.  There are some suspenseful moments, but Saul replays them often enough to make them rather banal in the end.  Character development is rather interesting, particularly in terms of the Catholic priests.  My impressions of the priests were made to change a little too quickly and easily, prompting me to wonder just when it had happened.  As for the Conway family, I liked daughter Kim, but I could hardly have cared less about the others, particularly Ted and Jared.  Since I didn't invest a lot of interest in Saul's characters, I never really cared how the novel might end.<br />There are a few scenes that are sure to bother animal lovers such as myself, so I want to mention that fact here.  I always cringe when I see an animal in a Saul novel because animals rarely fare too well in this writer's narratives.  Ultimately, I will say that this novel is just a little too derivative of Saul's other fiction, and this time around there is no real zing that certain other of his narratives have.  If you've never read John Saul before, you will probably enjoy this novel a lot more than those of us are familiar with his work.  John Saul is a talented writer who knows how to tell a story well, and that counts for a lot, but this novel, which aspires to much, falls short of its mark and never really sinks its claws into the heart and mind of the reader.the ultimate Evil, but his efforts were not quite up to the lofty challenge.  There are some suspenseful moments, but Saul replays them often enough to make them rather banal in the end.  Character development is rather interesting, particularly in terms of the Catholic priests.  My impressions of the priests were made to change a little too quickly and easily, prompting me to wonder just when it had happened.  As for the Conway family, I liked daughter Kim, but I could hardly have cared less about the others, particularly Ted and Jared.  Since I didn't invest a lot of interest in Saul's characters, I never really cared how the novel might end.  <br />There are a few scenes that are sure to bother animal lovers such as myself, so I want to mention that fact here.  I always cringe when I see an animal in a Saul novel because animals rarely fare too well in this writer's narratives.  Ultimately, I will say that this novel is just a little too derivative of Saul's other fiction, and this time around there is no real zing that certain other of his narratives have.  If you've never read John Saul before, you will probably enjoy this novel a lot more than those of us are familiar with his work.  John Saul is a talented writer who knows how to tell a story well, and that counts for a lot, but this novel, which aspires to much, falls short of its mark and never really sinks its claws into the heart and mind of the reader.	2002-11-02
1355688:US	53016962	R3J5XIR2VSE525	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	38	47	N	N	Mesmerizing, addictive, and utterly brilliant	The Secret History is a gripping, moving, thoroughly riveting novel that affected me as much as any book I have ever read.  Even after finishing it-especially after finishing it-the story has continued to consume my mind.  I fall asleep thinking about it, and I wake up thinking about it.  The characters (Richard, Henry, Francis, Charles, Camilla, Julian, and, of course, Bunny) are fascinating, mysterious, oddly charming, and-but for lack of flesh-completely real to me.  Despite their faults, their fatal flaws, and their sins, I am mesmerized by them all.  I want to know them, talk to them, be one of them.  Each one of the principal players in this drama will remain in my memory forever, especially Camilla-for some reason, she haunts me; just the thought of her makes me tingle and feel more alive.<br />You might think that identifying a murder victim and his murderers at the very beginning of a novel, particularly a long novel such as this, would make for a less than suspenseful read.  Not when Donna Tartt is telling the story.  This thriller is jam-packed with intensity and suspense from start to finish.  I cannot point to any single section where the story got bogged down or seemed drawn-out.  The final forty pages were incredible because I really had no idea how things would play out.  Several times, I had to literally put the book down momentarily to catch my breath and let the shocking effects of what I just read reverberate through my being.<br />In a way, I am surprised at the popularity of this book.  I like to consider myself a scholar, and I find the idea of completely subsuming oneself in the world of the ancients-wallowing in the classics, I like to call it-highly appealing.  This cadre of Greek scholars, indulged by their rarified, half-man, half-deity professor, lived in a world of their very own-communicating in ancient Greek, going about their lives in a Gothic environment, interacting with their fellow students yet never thinking of them as their equal or even as completely real.  I daresay that few besides myself find such a way of life appealing, and that is why I marvel to some degree at the success of this novel.  This basically reinforces the obvious fact that Tartt is an incredibly gifted writer.  I, right along with the narrator Richard, became immediately captivated by these people and yearned to enter their world-despite the fact that they all drank and smoked to a degree unimaginable even to Hemingway, were no strangers to drugs, and resorted, ultimately, to murder one of their own.  The inscrutable Henry, brooding over this entire narrative, had me entirely in his grip...<br />At the very root of this novel is a desire to somehow not think about anything, to achieve a transcendental moment of utter freedom.  It is this cherished desire that led our cadre of scholars out into the woods in an attempt to summon Dionysus by recreating a real, ancient Greek bacchanalian ceremony.  The reader never learns everything about what happened that night, but it is made clear that the group was successful beyond their wildest dreams ...Everything that happened after [a] pivotal moment seems almost inevitable now, looking back, but I was continually shocked and troubled by the details that gradually emerged.  Perhaps I should have seen the ending coming, but truthfully I did not and was thus deeply shocked.<br />I have been known to gush about my favorite novels, but if ever a novel deserved to be gushed over it is this one.  Tartt's debut novel is simply incredible.  Undoubtedly there are some who will find The Secret History pretentious or complain about its length.  I can only say that I absolutely loved every bit of it.  As corny as it sounds, I have to say that this novel is a very real part of me now and forever.qual or even as completely real.  I daresay that few besides myself find such a way of life appealing, and that is why I marvel to some degree at the success of this novel.  This basically reinforces the obvious fact that Tartt is an incredibly gifted writer.  I, right along with the narrator Richard, became immediately captivated by these people and yearned to enter their world-despite the fact that they all drank and smoked to a degree unimaginable even to Hemingway, were no strangers to drugs, and resorted, ultimately, to murder one of their own.  The inscrutable Henry, brooding over this entire narrative, had me entirely in his grip...<br />At the very root of this novel is a desire to somehow not think about anything, to achieve a transcendental moment of utter freedom.  It is this cherished desire that led our cadre of scholars out into the woods in an attempt to summon Dionysus by recreating a real, ancient Greek bacchanalian ceremony.  The reader never learns everything about what happened that night, but it is made clear that the group was successful beyond their wildest dreams ...Everything that happened after [a] pivotal moment seems almost inevitable now, looking back, but I was continually shocked and troubled by the details that gradually emerged.  Perhaps I should have seen the ending coming, but truthfully I did not and was thus deeply shocked.<br />I have been known to gush about my favorite novels, but if ever a novel deserved to be gushed over it is this one.  Tartt's debut novel is simply incredible.  Undoubtedly there are some who will find The Secret History pretentious or complain about its length.  I can only say that I absolutely loved every bit of it.  As corny as it sounds, I have to say that this novel is a very real part of me now and forever.	2002-11-01
1357509:US	53016962	R1W01T1E3HLL78	0812533461	621659799	Kaleidoscope Century	Books	3	1	5	N	N	A grim, futuristic, disjointed tale	This novel is a little weird.  We begin with the protagonist Josh just having come out of a long sleep.  He spends his time trying to remember his recent past, and the reader is treated to a series of confusing, meandering, problematic flashbacks.  He has tons of information stored on his werp (which is a futuristic, souped-up laptop basically), but his own notes and observations are problematic in themselves.  The memories that begin to return are often contradictory and vague-for instance, he remembers killing his friend Sadi, and he also remembers Sadi killing him.  Since the narrator himself is not even sure what is real and what isn't, the book's constant jaunts back and forth in time can be a little frustrating.  The bare bone facts-Josh had a very bad childhood, joined the KGB which later became the Organization, got his hands dirty in all sorts of secret, highly-paid missions, raped, killed, and tortured any number of people.  Some of his actions truly are despicable, and his different personas sometimes grieve over what he has apparently done in the past, yet ultimately he keeps doing the very same things.  Josh is a longtimer; ever 15 years or so, he transitions, falling into a sickness for months only to \\"come back\\" 10 years younger that he was previously.  Each transition erases his recent memories, and each time he must struggle to figure out who and what he is.  Things get even more complicated later in the novel when Barnes really starts playing around with time.<br />In many respects, this is a pretty good book.  The premise is solid, yet Barnes seems to overexplain the means by which time travel is accomplished here.  It gets a little confusing if you think about it too much, especially when Barnes describes how one goes back in time without circumventing the hard and fast rule he has already laid out that time travel to the past is not possible.  Still, Barnes makes a concerted effort to get the science into his science fiction.  It is interesting to read the types of warfare that take place in this dark future for earth-ecological attacks play a huge role.  For instance, diseases and viruses are developed to attack specific parts of the environment-wipe out the rice crops in Asia and kill untold millions, for example.  Computer AI comes to develop a life of its own, culminating in a war between competing \\"memes.\\"  The most important meme is One True, and it essentially hooks up with the brain of its human subjects, giving them virtually identical lives and personalities by taking away their individual freedom and desires.  Barnes' ideas of future warfare are exceedingly interesting (and staggeringly deadly for the human race), particularly in terms of terrorism.<br />There is a good bit of sex and violence in this novel.  The violence is OK and fits well with the storyline-Josh is basically a mercenary soldier throughout the 21st century, an unofficial veteran of several deadly wars.  The sex, however, just seems gratuitous at times, making Josh a wholly ambivalent character whom the reader can never actually like.  One comes away from this novel feeling very little about it, ultimately.  Certainly, one cannot feel that he really knows Josh because there are all kinds of contradictions, untruths, and gaps in his own memory.  The extended time travel explanation toward the end further bogs the reader down.  In the end, one is left with far fewer answers than questions.  The novel's saving grace, at least for me, is its description of 21st century warfare and its truly apocalyptic effects.to read the types of warfare that take place in this dark future for earth-ecological attacks play a huge role.  For instance, diseases and viruses are developed to attack specific parts of the environment-wipe out the rice crops in Asia and kill untold millions, for example.  Computer AI comes to develop a life of its own, culminating in a war between competing \\"memes.\\"  The most important meme is One True, and it essentially hooks up with the brain of its human subjects, giving them virtually identical lives and personalities by taking away their individual freedom and desires.  Barnes' ideas of future warfare are exceedingly interesting (and staggeringly deadly for the human race), particularly in terms of terrorism.  <br />There is a good bit of sex and violence in this novel.  The violence is OK and fits well with the storyline-Josh is basically a mercenary soldier throughout the 21st century, an unofficial veteran of several deadly wars.  The sex, however, just seems gratuitous at times, making Josh a wholly ambivalent character whom the reader can never actually like.  One comes away from this novel feeling very little about it, ultimately.  Certainly, one cannot feel that he really knows Josh because there are all kinds of contradictions, untruths, and gaps in his own memory.  The extended time travel explanation toward the end further bogs the reader down.  In the end, one is left with far fewer answers than questions.  The novel's saving grace, at least for me, is its description of 21st century warfare and its truly apocalyptic effects.	2002-10-30
1362168:US	53016962	R2K033ZKG7J709	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Arguably, Heinlein's most enjoyable novel	The Puppet Masters is one of Heinlein's most entertaining novels.  A fairly quick read, it provides a wealth of enjoyment for both young and old alike.  The earth is being invaded by hostile alien forces, but few people recognize this fact or choose to believe it for this is no typical invasion.  These extraterrestrials are slugs who attach themselves to human hosts, thereby controlling them and giving the appearance of normalcy to those around them (and, more importantly, to typically slow-witted politicians).  Our protagonists, mysterious agents of some murky, top-secret government agency in the early 21st century, enter the fray when a flying saucer supposedly lands in Iowa and is quickly proclaimed a hoax.  They are soon able to figure out what is actually going on, though, and they manage to convince a reluctant President of the seriousness of the matter.  Soon Schedule Bare Back is in force, requiring all citizens to wear nothing (or next to nothing in the case of women) above their waists--slug-invaded hosts bear a discernible hump on their backs where the aliens imbed themselves.  These aliens are smart, though, and the government is typically nave and slow to respond, so eventually the fate of the nation depends on the work of our three heroes.<br />The protagonists are typically peculiar Heinlein characters.  The hard to read Old Man runs the show, while \\"Sam\\" and \\"Mary\\" conduct much of the field and security work, Mary is a beautiful, mysterious female agent, and naturally Sam immediately falls head over heels in love with her.  Together, they identify the means by which the slugs propagate, eventually developing first-hand knowledge of the slugs despite their best intentions and precautions.  As compelling as the slug crisis is, the interrelationships between the Old Man, Sam, and Mary are even more interesting.  One never truly knows a Heinlein character, and there are some surprising twists and turns in the evolution and past histories of the important ones here.<br />The tidbits we are given about life in the 21st century and the recent past history of America are slipped in rather slyly; America did win World War III, we learn, but did not escape a limited nuclear attack; the defeated yet unbowed Soviets remain Communists (drawing a perfectly legitimate question in the mind of Sam as to how much difference it would make for the Soviets to fall victim to slug control), and marriage has become a business contract available for periods of six months up to the old-fashioned yet rarely selected lifetime commitment.<br />This is basically an action-packed alien invasion story of an unusual sort, driven along unflaggingly by Heinlein.  The science of this science fiction is present but by no means takes away from or slows down the story whatsoever.  Even as incredible wartime events unfold rapidly, we are continually treated to a character study of sorts of our heroes.  This is not sociological science fiction, yet there is much in that vein to draw one's eye.  Certainly, a Cold War influence can be felt in these pages, especially early on when it seems all but impossible to tell who is an enemy and who is not.  The issue of civil liberties is brought up when the government basically demands all citizens to live and work essentially nude (because that is the only way to tell whether Joe Schmo is walking around with a slug or not)  The novel is not politicized however, with the exception of allusions to government's predictable weaknesses and failures.  The bare-bones skeleton of the tale is rather common fare, despite the unusual nature of the aliens here, but Heinlein's incredible characterization, subtle references to psychological and sociological issues, and unique manner of telling a story make this a thoroughly enjoyable novel.nt ones here.  <br />The tidbits we are given about life in the 21st century and the recent past history of America are slipped in rather slyly; America did win World War III, we learn, but did not escape a limited nuclear attack; the defeated yet unbowed Soviets remain Communists (drawing a perfectly legitimate question in the mind of Sam as to how much difference it would make for the Soviets to fall victim to slug control), and marriage has become a business contract available for periods of six months up to the old-fashioned yet rarely selected lifetime commitment.  <br />This is basically an action-packed alien invasion story of an unusual sort, driven along unflaggingly by Heinlein.  The science of this science fiction is present but by no means takes away from or slows down the story whatsoever.  Even as incredible wartime events unfold rapidly, we are continually treated to a character study of sorts of our heroes.  This is not sociological science fiction, yet there is much in that vein to draw one's eye.  Certainly, a Cold War influence can be felt in these pages, especially early on when it seems all but impossible to tell who is an enemy and who is not.  The issue of civil liberties is brought up when the government basically demands all citizens to live and work essentially nude (because that is the only way to tell whether Joe Schmo is walking around with a slug or not)  The novel is not politicized however, with the exception of allusions to government's predictable weaknesses and failures.  The bare-bones skeleton of the tale is rather common fare, despite the unusual nature of the aliens here, but Heinlein's incredible characterization, subtle references to psychological and sociological issues, and unique manner of telling a story make this a thoroughly enjoyable novel.	2002-10-27
1362866:US	53016962	R8JBEXOD0RIBH	0553272616	712266676	The Unloved	Books	4	28	31	N	N	You can't leave home again	This book is actually quite good, yet it is also the very book that turned me off of John Saul years ago.  My memory told me this book was rather boring and drawn-out, and that it was just too much like other Saul books.  Unquestionably, Saul has been known to address the same themes across several novels, and The Unloved features a hackneyed family history, young people having to react to a crisis no one else seems to see, and the same type of madness that dates back to Saul's first novel Suffer the Children.  Having reread it again now, I was much more impressed than I expected to be.  Saul really pulls no punches on this one-if you like happily ever after endings, this book is definitely not for you.  There is plenty of misery in these pages, and Saul spreads it out widely among the characters.<br />There is nothing strikingly original about the basic plot.  Kevin Devereaux escaped the world of his hated mother at eighteen and never planned to return to his old home off the coast of South Carolina.  Still haunted by nightmares from his youth, he nevertheless does go home again, taking his wife, son and daughter with him, when he receives word his mother is dying.  Helena Devereaux is a thoroughly cruel, self-centered, frightening woman, and the way she heavily cakes her face in power and makeup makes for a startling first impression on her son's family.  Determined to regain control over her prodigal son even in death, she draws up a will that basically constrains Kevin to stay in the family home for the sake of his sister Marguerite.  Separated from the mainland by a causeway that is impassable during stormy weather, the lonely mansion soon becomes a completely isolated house of horrors.  Saul does a good job of placing a hint of doubt in the mind of the reader halfway through as to who exactly is to blame for the developing troubles on the island, but the truth becomes pretty clear as family secrets are slowly revealed.<br />The novel is perhaps a little longer than it needed to be.  Saul seems to love showing his main characters fret and worry about things to come, always hesitating or refusing to recognize the truth of what is happening around them, and it can get slightly tiresome and frustrating at times.  When I reached the point where the whole story seemed to be approaching a resolution, I was quite surprised to see well over a hundred pages left.  I had no idea how Saul was going to be able to fill that many pages, but fill them he did-and how.  To his credit, Saul packs a real punch into those last hundred pages, slowly turning the screws and ratcheting up the reader's interest, discomfort, and personal involvement.  I should mention the epilogue, however, being careful to give nothing away.  Saul goes a step farther than I would have gone, but I greatly admire this author's confidence in ending the novel on his own rather than on the reader's terms. At first glance, this novel may not look all that interesting, but it slowly sinks it claws into you and compels you to keep reading in morbid fascination.er than it needed to be.  Saul seems to love showing his main characters fret and worry about things to come, always hesitating or refusing to recognize the truth of what is happening around them, and it can get slightly tiresome and frustrating at times.  When I reached the point where the whole story seemed to be approaching a resolution, I was quite surprised to see well over a hundred pages left.  I had no idea how Saul was going to be able to fill that many pages, but fill them he did-and how.  To his credit, Saul packs a real punch into those last hundred pages, slowly turning the screws and ratcheting up the reader's interest, discomfort, and personal involvement.  I should mention the epilogue, however, being careful to give nothing away.  Saul goes a step farther than I would have gone, but I greatly admire this author's confidence in ending the novel on his own rather than on the reader's terms. At first glance, this novel may not look all that interesting, but it slowly sinks it claws into you and compels you to keep reading in morbid fascination.	2002-10-26
1364123:US	53016962	R39BLWZC63PG3A	0449225046	475389971	Black Lightning	Books	3	5	6	N	N	There's not much to fear from this Black Lightning	In Black Lightning, John Saul builds his plot around a serial killer of unusual distinction.  I have a morbid fascination with serial killers and their motivations, but midway through the book it was quite apparent that Saul was going in a weird direction; glimpses into the mind of the maniac dwindle with time, and the door to insight is slammed shut by the paranormal elements of the story.  This is by no means a bad novel; it's always nice to read a Saul novel that has nothing to do with some type of hundred-year old curse or mysterious genealogy.  The writing is quite tight and riveting in places.  The scenes describing one character's acrophobia attacks are incredibly intense, and the descriptions of the individual murders are painstakingly realistic.<br />The novel begins with the execution of serial killer Richard Kraven.  Journalist Anne Jeffers, who worked diligently to assure the killer's conviction, is there to witness the event.  While Kraven is being electrocuted, Anne's husband is suffering a near-fatal heart attack.  The doctors don't seem to really do anything at all for Glen Jeffers, but he is soon back home resuming a fairly normal life.  Warned by the doctor that her husband's behavior may be changed as a result of the heart attack, Anne and eventually her children become increasingly disturbed by Glen's behavior.  They would really have worried had Glen told them he was having blackouts; he continually finds himself having to explain actions he has no conscious memory of having performed.  Meanwhile, a new killer is on the loose, committing murders eerily similar to Kraven's handiwork.  Soon the killer begins entering Anne's home secretly and leaving her messages.  When cops begin finding Kraven's \\"signature\\" on fresh murder victims, a signature that no one besides the deceased Kraven and the cops could possibly know about, things go from bad to worse.  When the killer finally turns his eyes toward his nemesis Anne Jeffers, things get worse still.  This is no average serial killer, as Anne soon discovers when he strikes truly close to home.<br />The basis of this novel winds up seeming a little hokey.  Midway through the novel, the story switched directions on me a little bit, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but by the time I reached the conclusion, this potentially impressive plot really started sputtering.  At times, incidents and dramas last a little longer than they should, and this drags down an otherwise fairly brisk story.  I can't address the paranormal aspects of the tale without divulging too much information, but it is not quite original and pushes the limits of credulity in the context of the novel Saul constructed around it.  There are also a few subplots that seem important early on but sort of fade into obscurity, such as the relationship between Anne and the lead detective.  Sometimes riveting, sometimes a little drawn-out, Black Lightning is a perfectly satisfactory horror novel.  It makes a good change of pace for Saul, who sometimes seems to get in a rut of old curses and young teenagers.  The effort is undeniably there, but unfortunately the book seems to shoot itself in the foot at the very end.This is no average serial killer, as Anne soon discovers when he strikes truly close to home.  <br />The basis of this novel winds up seeming a little hokey.  Midway through the novel, the story switched directions on me a little bit, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but by the time I reached the conclusion, this potentially impressive plot really started sputtering.  At times, incidents and dramas last a little longer than they should, and this drags down an otherwise fairly brisk story.  I can't address the paranormal aspects of the tale without divulging too much information, but it is not quite original and pushes the limits of credulity in the context of the novel Saul constructed around it.  There are also a few subplots that seem important early on but sort of fade into obscurity, such as the relationship between Anne and the lead detective.  Sometimes riveting, sometimes a little drawn-out, Black Lightning is a perfectly satisfactory horror novel.  It makes a good change of pace for Saul, who sometimes seems to get in a rut of old curses and young teenagers.  The effort is undeniably there, but unfortunately the book seems to shoot itself in the foot at the very end.	2002-10-25
1369111:US	53016962	R26VLPYKZ0H98B	0671698753	777927331	Undesired Princess and the Enchanted Bunny	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An excellent De Camp tale + a middling Drake piece	This book consists of two unrelated piece of fiction written by two individual authors.  L. Sprague de Camp's The Undesired Princess is your typical de Camp fantasy featuring a practical man thrust into a fantasy realm where magic is very real and unearthly dangers threaten not only the protagonist and the leaders of the realm but, indirectly, the very existence of the fantasy world itself.  Rollin Hobart is an exceedingly logical engineer who is recruited (or kidnapped, really) by a strange old man to save the life of his home land's princess.  The successful hero can only succeed by answering a riddle posted by an elephantine behemoth.  Pointing out false logic is rather a passion of Rollin's, but returning back home to New York poses a much harder problem than saving the royal damsel in distress.  Finding himself welcomed into the royal family as the soon-to-be husband to the princess, Rollin goes to great extremes, often using his own form of magic, to find a portal back to his world, but to his dismay he only finds himself acquiring more and more authority and power.  This fantasy world is most interesting in that it is a two-value world, meaning that something either is or it isn't.  Thus, there is no dusk-night immediately follows day instantaneously, for example.  Statements are taken literally (as Rollin discovers after making the statement that he was hungry enough to eat a horse).  The method of warfare is especially fascinating.  A fair fight involves both armies lining up in equal numbers; when either army gets out of formation in the slightest degree, their logic demands that the minutely disorganized army turn and run.  I can't say that The Undesired Princess is as enjoyable as de Camp's Harold Shea stories, but it is certainly an interesting and amusing read.<br />The Enchanted Bunny was written by David Drake, and it is dubbed an homage to L. Sprague de Camp.  The story of this piece, which is a novella of less than 100 pages, is similar to de Camp's style and subject, but it is quite inferior to the writing of the legendary fantasy master.  The manner in which the rather uninteresting ghost writer protagonist is transported to a fantasy world is cumbersome, as is the series of events he finds himself engaged in.  His main task is to defeat a rampaging dragon, yet that pivotal event happens far too soon and much too quickly.  On top of that, the author ends the tale with a time-worn ruse I won't identify.  After partaking of Drake's bland literary meal, his dessert of last-minute twist only succeeded in leaving a bad taste in my mouth.<br />De Camp's The Undesired Princess is a short novel that any De Camp fan will want to read, and it is more than capable of gratifying any reader of this type of fantasy.  The only service the Drake novella performs is to highlight the difference between a great fantasy writer such as De Camp and a less skilled practitioner of the same art.  I give The Undesired Princess four stars and The Enchanted Bunny two and a half stars.s style and subject, but it is quite inferior to the writing of the legendary fantasy master.  The manner in which the rather uninteresting ghost writer protagonist is transported to a fantasy world is cumbersome, as is the series of events he finds himself engaged in.  His main task is to defeat a rampaging dragon, yet that pivotal event happens far too soon and much too quickly.  On top of that, the author ends the tale with a time-worn ruse I won't identify.  After partaking of Drake's bland literary meal, his dessert of last-minute twist only succeeded in leaving a bad taste in my mouth.<br />De Camp's The Undesired Princess is a short novel that any De Camp fan will want to read, and it is more than capable of gratifying any reader of this type of fantasy.  The only service the Drake novella performs is to highlight the difference between a great fantasy writer such as De Camp and a less skilled practitioner of the same art.  I give The Undesired Princess four stars and The Enchanted Bunny two and a half stars.	2002-10-21
1369560:US	53016962	RLFY6DKZT3WI1	157036107X	682878841	Anthony Browne's King Kong: From the Story Conceived by Edgar Wallace & Merian C. Cooper	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Captures the essence of Kong in its illustrations	I don't usually buy this type of book, but I saw it on a bargain book table a few years ago and picked it up.  King Kong is the greatest monster movie of all time, and this illustrated account of the story looked interesting.  In 92 pages, the familiar story of Kong's tragedy is told rather well, and the illustrations are quite good.  Browne especially did a great job capturing the emotion and sadness of Kong at the end, lending him a much greater sense of humanity than can be found in the true monster of the story, filmmaker Carl Denham.  One thing that could not help but strike me was the way in which Browne depicted Ann Darrow-there are definite similarities to Marilyn Monroe, and one early illustration is a perfect likeness of the blonde bombshell.  I also noticed that one illustration of Kong on his abode atop Skull Mountain depicted what looks exactly like a bi-plane in the corner beside a basic V-shaped bird; I don't know if this is a mistake (the corner does closely match that of a later illustration of Kong atop the Empire State Building) but it did jump out at me.<br />Basically, this is a children's book, although I rather enjoyed it myself.  This may not be a wise choice for bedtime reading for a small child (Kong's battles with several prehistoric beasts are vividly illustrated along with the horrors of Kong's escape in New York), but older children should enjoy it.  The pictures pretty much tell the story themselves, so a child can enjoy the book even without reading the accompanying text.  I think both the story and the illustrations convey an important message about the dangers of greed, one which parents can reinforce in their children by discussing Anthony Browne's King Kong with them.	2002-10-21
1369689:US	53016962	R10DFBJM5298O7	0671698095	781017653	The Complete Compleat Enchanter	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Magical Misadventures of Harold Shea	One rarely thinks about this, but there actually was terrific heroic fantasy being written before Tolkien published the Lord of the Rings, and L. Sprague de Camp and Fletcher Pratt were at the forefront of such efforts.  These magical misadventures of Harold Shea, psychologist turned multiverse knight/magician/hero are thoroughly entertaining and amazingly detailed.  The Complete Enchanter consists of the two novellas The Roaring Trumpet and The Mathematics of Magic (published together as The Incomplete Enchanter) and a follow-up novel The Castle of Iron.  Sorting out the different versions of these books can be somewhat confusing, but basically this set consists of the original trilogy of \\"books\\" recounting the adventures of Harold Shea.  Shea is a smallish man who continually takes on affectations such as unusual modes of dress in an effort to lift his spirits out of the mundane environment of his life.  When his boss comes up with a logical theory for traveling among different universes, Shea takes the initiative and put the theory to the test.  Aiming for mediaeval Ireland, Shea actually finds himself in a bitterly cold environment where he meets up with Thor and the three other principal gods of Norse myth.  Deciding to pass himself off as a magician, he soon finds himself involved in preparations for a final world-ending battle between the Norse gods and a group of malicious giants.  In many ways this is my favorite Shea story because it is here that he finds, to his own amazement, that he can handle a sword with some degree of skill (as long as it has a sharp point at the end) and can actually perform some feats of magic.<br />After managing to return to good old present-day earth, Shea soon sets out on another journey, this time with his boss Dr. Chalmers along for the thrill-seeking ride.  Their aim is true, placing them inside the world of Spencer's Faerie Queen.  Here Shea finds himself in the company of both noble knights and rogue \\"black\\" magicians bent on defeating the good and noble paladins and destroying the enchanted world.  In this mediaeval setting, he hones his fighting skills, struggles with his magical spells (as does his colleague Chalmers), and meets up with the red-haired beauty of the woods Belphebe.  Chalmers, for his part, becomes enchanted with the lady Florimel, who unfortunately is a not quite human reproduction (formed of ice and snow) of the original Florimel.<br />The Castle of Iron finds Shea back in his own time and space again, trying to explain to cops the manner in which his wife has disappeared.  Suddenly, he, two cops, and two of Shea's colleagues find themselves transported to another world Shea soon realizes is Xanadu, but soon Shea and his annoyingly rash colleague Vaclav are whisked magically away to a castle of iron in an ancient Moor kingdom (the world of \\"Orlando Furioso\\").  The plot of this novel confused me a little, but basically Chalmers has bidden them there to help him achieve a truly human form for his beloved Florimel.  The castle Chalmers resides in, however, is under a curse which can be put in motion should the young Mohammedan warrior Roger escape the grounds and fight as a warrior, which is the only thing Rogers wants to do, as luck would have it.  Once again, Shea finds himself mixed up with men and creatures of mythological origin, seeking this time to not only glorify himself in further adventure without winding up dead but also to find and restore the memory of his recently-disappeared wife.<br />The logic of Shea's method of time travel is rather abstruse; basically, transference is achieved by choosing your desired location (which ends up being a fictional or mythological universe of literary note), trying to ground yourself in the physical and magical principles that would hold reign in such a world, and then reading aloud complicated logical arguments-then, poof, you find yourself in another place and time, one where all of your old assumptions do not quitehold true, requiring quick thinking, ingenuity, and-inevitably-skillful or very lucky life-preserving skills.  There are quests, battles, and loves galore in these three adventures.  The method of invoking magic is especially interesting, as Shea and Chalmers basically take their words of power from literary sources such as Spenser's The Faerie Queen and Shakespeare.  The only negative thing I can say is that sometimes Shea's time in each world is drawn short before we have a chance to actually experience the long-awaited battle or ultimate conclusion to events there.  De Camp and Pratt made an incredibly talented writing team, and the magical misadventures of Harold Shea hold a long-appreciated, eternally rewarding place in the annals of heroic fantasy.quite hold true, requiring quick thinking, ingenuity, and-inevitably-skillful or very lucky life-preserving skills.  There are quests, battles, and loves galore in these three adventures.  The method of invoking magic is especially interesting, as Shea and Chalmers basically take their words of power from literary sources such as Spenser's The Faerie Queen and Shakespeare.  The only negative thing I can say is that sometimes Shea's time in each world is drawn short before we have a chance to actually experience the long-awaited battle or ultimate conclusion to events there.  De Camp and Pratt made an incredibly talented writing team, and the magical misadventures of Harold Shea hold a long-appreciated, eternally rewarding place in the annals of heroic fantasy.	2002-10-20
1370163:US	53016962	R1NVOZLDDQ1TDJ	0671877461	510897089	The Reluctant King	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The complete story of the Unbeheaded King	The Reluctant King assembles in one volume L. Sprague de Camp's three thrilling novels (The Goblin Tower, The Clocks of Iraz, and The Unbeheaded King) detailing the wild and humorous adventures of Jorian of Kortoli and the constantly amusing wizard Karadur.  While passing through Xylar, Jorian instinctively catches a decapitated head out of the air and finds himself proclaimed the new king of the land, one whose own head will be forcibly removed from his body after a traditional five-year reign.  With the help of Karadur, Jorian escapes, but his life is constantly threatened by Xylarian soldiers seeking their unbeheaded king.  Our heroic odd couple roam the lands of the realm, encountering all manner of men and dangers, numerous gods, dangerous ape-men, lustful, dangerous women, rogue barbarians, slow-witted demons, avaricious sorcerers, witches, enchantresses, etc.  Jorian employs all manner of physical objects (including a giant golden bathtub) and sometimes less than dependable magic from Karadur to keep himself alive and healthy so that he can attempt to recover his beloved wife Estrildis from the walled confines of Xylar City.  The action is nonstop and the humor rich and abundant, making the Reluctant King trilogy one of the best works of fantasy I have ever read.<br />Wanting no more than to settle down with the chosen wife he left behind in Xylar and live the simple, quiet life of a craftsman, Jorian is seemingly cut out to be either an adventurer or a king.  Possessed  of a noble heart, underrated combat skills, and a great deal of ingenuity and common sense, his greatest skill is actually his storytelling ability, and many of his escapes come about as a direct result of his storytelling prowess.  This makes him an uncommonly interesting and very human hero.  The ultimate conclusion, I was happy to discover, is by no means a foregone one ...  Jorian does make a cameo appearance in de Camp's novel The Honorable Barbarian, but this 3-in-1 volume basically contains all of the exploits of this famous unbeheaded king.  No fantasy fan should deny himself/herself the joy of reading de Camp's fiction, and this account of Jorian's life and times is a wonderful way for you to introduce yourself to one of the genre's greatest and most legendary writers.ontains all of the exploits of this famous unbeheaded king.  No fantasy fan should deny himself/herself the joy of reading de Camp's fiction, and this account of Jorian's life and times is a wonderful way for you to introduce yourself to one of the genre's greatest and most legendary writers.	2002-10-20
1371622:US	53016962	RFKASWUPBC70B	0345307739	504980600	The Unbeheaded King	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A terrific conclusion to The Reluctant King trilogy	This final novel in The Reluctant King trilogy (preceded by The Goblin Tower and The Clocks of Iraz) is the most entertaining read of the three.  I had already come to respect and feel comfortable with the good and brave Jorian, unbeheaded king of Xylar, and his wizard friend Karadur, and I had been waiting the equivalent of several hundred pages to read about Jorian's long-planned, very dangerous mission to rescue his chosen wife Estrildis from Xylar.  As always, Jorian's adventures are, much to his own chagrin, fraught with danger and excitement at every turn, and the events of this novel are certainly no exception.  For two years the Xylarians have pursued Jorian because he had escaped the kingdom with his head at the end of his five-year reign and thus thrown the politics of the country into turmoil.  In Xylar, each king is beheaded after five years, and the next king is chosen by throwing the passing king's head into the crowd to see who catches it.  Jorian's plan to reenter Xylar in an effort to get his chosen wife back is incredibly dangerous, but true love makes any good man risk his own life in its pursuit.  In the way of all Jorian's plans and wishes, however, things never go quite the way he hopes.<br />All three novels in the trilogy can be characterized as humorous fantasy, but The Unbeheaded King is by far the funniest.  The action begins with Jorian and Karadur flying into Xylar in a large golden bathtub (the explanation for which can be found in The Clocks of Izar); amazingly, Jorian enters the tower where his lady resides and comes close to succeeding in his objective at the beginning of the novel.  Then he trips and causes an alarm to ring out, forcing him to shimmy back up to the hovering bathtub and flee forthwith.  Undaunted, Jorian, back in the neighboring land of Othomae, seeks other means for achieving his overriding aim.  When he asks a sorcerer to summon a demon to attempt a rescue, the banter between the unhappy demon and the sorcerer is well-nigh hilarious, with the demon complaining about being summoned from his plane unjustly and threatening to foment his fellow demons into an attack on the human plane of existence after he finishes his assignment.  Very humorous examples of why you should never underestimate a demon's capacity for stupidity produced many a laugh on my part.  Several of Jorian's famous escapes from danger are, as usual, fantastic and highly entertaining, and the miscellaneous stories we hear from Jorian's lips as well as those of his friends (both human and, in one case, a ghost) bring even more humor to this enchanting work of fantasy.<br />I am sad to see this trilogy end.  I would gladly read novel after novel based on the times and trials of good Jorian and his reluctant ally Karadur.  De Camp is a fantastic writer, bringing to vivid life the lands and peoples of his fictional world, steering his fantasy along at full steam, never allowing for dull moments.  You do not read about De Camp's imaginative realms, you journey there yourself and watch your friends and heroes go about their business right in front of your eyes.  One cannot help but me amazed at both the bad luck and the good luck our heroes are met with, nor does one ever tire of trying to figure out how they are going to get out of each successive mess they perpetually find themselves in.  It may take the reader a few pages to get comfortable with the mediaeval-sounding language the characters often use, but familiarity comes so quickly that you may find yourself unconsciously uttering words like forsooth and instanter in your normal conversations and cursing any bad luck that comes your way with phrases such as \\"by Imbal's brazen balls.\\"<br />This is one of the more enjoyable fantasy books I have read in a long time.  Although the conclusion played out a little differently from what I was expecting, I was thrilled with the way De Camp ended this epic because it seems uniquely and honestly faithful to the charactersand the spirit of their adventures.  It is with sadness that I bid friends Jorian and Karadur goodbye after three novels, but I take with me the memory of a joyous read full of great humour, enthralling adventures, and utter fascination.  If you want to read fantasy as it was meant to be written, you would do much worse than to pick up De Camp's account of the adventures of the unbeheaded king.racters and the spirit of their adventures.  It is with sadness that I bid friends Jorian and Karadur goodbye after three novels, but I take with me the memory of a joyous read full of great humour, enthralling adventures, and utter fascination.  If you want to read fantasy as it was meant to be written, you would do much worse than to pick up De Camp's account of the adventures of the unbeheaded king.	2002-10-18
1373137:US	53016962	RRCU01W82AVNL	0802860605	235200045	Phantastes	Books	4	80	85	N	N	A beautiful, influential novel of high fantasy	This is an enchanting work of high fantasy, lyrical in its composition, spiritual in its nature, and enlightening in its effect on the careful reader.  As the subtitle says, Phantastes is a Faerie Romance For Men and Women.  The Fairy Land in which Anodos, the narrator, ventures is not the fairy land of youth's innocent dreams; rather, it is an otherworldly plane full of great beauty and terrible ugliness, impish little fairies and horrible, teasing goblins, nurturing spirits and malevolent entities.  Anodos' discovery of a fairy inside his deceased father's old desk leads to his unplanned journey into this world of wonder.  Interestingly, upon entering Fairy Land, Anodos leaves the beaten path and makes his way through the woods all on his own.  He meets a diverse cast of characters along the way, reckoning with dark beings who threaten his spiritual well-being while also finding great and needed comfort at crucial times from nurturing maternal forces.  His own shadow takes on perhaps the most malevolent influence of all the beings he deals with.  He often finds himself compelled to sing, and his songs are powerful enough to free a beautiful White Lady from inside a statue; he remains infatuated with this lady for a long time, trying desperately to find her; his love for her, he comes to realize, comes in large part from his feelings of having been the one to free her, and an important point the author seems to be suggesting is that the love of a giver is much more pure than the love of a benefactor.<br />Much of this story is allegorical; Anodos basically comes to know himself and to see the world more objectively as a result of his journeys.  He often resorts to tears, yet he also raises his voice in song to uplift others.  He discovers the power of brotherly love and the beauty that is all around, yet he cringes at the sight of the shadowy creatures that would do him ill.  His journey is challenging because he naturally falls prey to feelings of pride and egotism, but his losses and sorrows eventually coalesce themselves into something of beauty, for it is these experiences that help him grow more spiritual.  Much has been made of MacDonald's religious beliefs, but Phantastes to me calls forth no religion other than spiritualism and personal growth and maturity.  Good and evil do not exist in Fairy Land, except in the sense that there is both good and evil in each individual spirit.<br />Doubtless, some will not like MacDonald's 19th-century, florid style.  There is action in this novel, but it definitely takes a back seat to exposition and philosophical musings.  Some will surely find Phantastes exceptionally boring, but those readers willing to follow Anodos deeply into Fairy Land will embark on an enlightening, touching read that will almost surely make them better persons for having taken the literary journey.ism, but his losses and sorrows eventually coalesce themselves into something of beauty, for it is these experiences that help him grow more spiritual.  Much has been made of MacDonald's religious beliefs, but Phantastes to me calls forth no religion other than spiritualism and personal growth and maturity.  Good and evil do not exist in Fairy Land, except in the sense that there is both good and evil in each individual spirit.  <br />Doubtless, some will not like MacDonald's 19th-century, florid style.  There is action in this novel, but it definitely takes a back seat to exposition and philosophical musings.  Some will surely find Phantastes exceptionally boring, but those readers willing to follow Anodos deeply into Fairy Land will embark on an enlightening, touching read that will almost surely make them better persons for having taken the literary journey.	2002-10-17
1376813:US	53016962	R2Q2RC1OFEDP2T	1558530991	259581182	Lizzie Borden: The Legend, the Truth, the Final Chapter	Books	4	18	39	N	N	A fascinating theory that Brown simply cannot prove	The Borden murders represent one of the most fascinating crimes in American history, giving birth to a legend that has far surpassed the actual events of that fateful day in Fall River, Massachusetts.  In this fascinating book, Arnold R. Brown purports to tell us the true story of the crime and cover-up which revolved around Miss Lizzie Borden.  Brown's arguments are really quite intriguing, and they are indeed credible -- to some degree.  His tale does fit many of the facts of the case, yet in the end he has no real way to prove that he is correct.  This does not mean that he has not in fact cracked the case wide open, but he has no incontrovertible proof to offer the reader to support the theory he is convinced explains everything.  The heart of his argument relies on second- or third-hand hearsay evidence from individuals who were quite young at the time of the murders.  Brown may well be right, and his obvious writing skills make you want to believe him, but there is simply not enough proof to declare his solution to be the actual final solution.<br /><br />One would probably be better served by reading other accounts in order to get the facts of the case in mind before taking on this author.  Brown jumps around in his narrative to some degree, and he never really lays out a timetable for what happened when on that fateful morning.  We learn the accepted facts of the case from him in a rather piecemeal fashion.  Along the way, his own conviction almost teases the reader.  Remember this, he tells the reader, for it will be important later.  Further along, he begins to make bold statements, holding off the proof of them for some later chapter.  As he begins describing the inquests and trial, he contaminates the valuable evidence of fact he has with a conviction that seems unwarranted.  He proclaims that local government officials planned every aspect of the case from inquest to trial for the sole purpose of charging and acquitting Lizzie Borden in a way that allowed no possibility of the real murderer's identity becoming known.  He never presents a good enough argument for why the town leaders should prostitute the law in this manner.  Brown alleges that virtually every principal in the trial's proceeding knew who the murderer was and worked conspiratorially to produce the result that indeed came about -- namely, Lizzie's acquittal.  Even undeniably honorable men on the prosecuting team and behind the judge's bench were all active performers in a farcical drama.  While I can't buy all he is selling on these points, Brown does do a very good job at pointing out many extraordinary aspects of the trial, especially many mysterious aspects to the prosecutor's case and the exceedingly strange decisions and pronouncements from the bench.  His words are convincing, but I cannot objectively accept everything he pronounces as truth without more evidence.<br /><br />After building up interminably for the big finish, the moment when he will announce who in fact killed Andrew and Abby Borden, Brown seems to let his excitement get away from him in the concluding chapter.  His evidence can simply not be proven, even if he is correct.  Brown makes the situation worse by putting forth a timeline in which he ascribes definite actions to a number of players without offering any proof whatsoever -- his summary contains information he never even mentioned elsewhere in the book.  He names Lizzie as a conspirator after the fact, one who knew the murderer but did not know he had rewritten everyone's plans for that morning by actually killing the elder Bordens.  I found Brown's argument as to why she quickly decides to cover up the murderer and allow herself to stand trial for the heinous crimes somewhat problematic and unsatisfactory -- materialism and a desire to save the Borden name from embarrassment don't seem to do it for me, and Uncle John Morse's purported role in the central events strikes me as even harder to justify in Brown's scenario.<br /><br />This is a fascinating book that all armchair detectives interested in the Borden case should read.  One great strength of Brown's book is his inclusion of the long-lost testimony of Lizzie Borden from the original inquest, evidence that was not allowed during the actual trial.  He relies heavily on information from this inquest to build his case, but many of his discoveries are perfectly capable of being twisted in different directions by other sleuths.  Arnold Brown is simply too sure of himself; he has contributed useful information and speculation into the Borden murder mystery, but he allows himself to lose objectivity.  It may well be that he is correct, and many of his ideas certainly deserve intense thought and investigation, but his theories simply cannot be proven, and his overzealous attempt to explain why each actor in this drama did what he/she did actually damaged some of his credibility in my eyes.  Brown would have us believe that every halfway important man in Fall River knew the truth about the case and worked together to turn the trial into a mockery of justice for reasons that simply are not convincing, especially when you allow for the obvious public danger posed by the madman Brown dubs the actual killer.scinating book that all armchair detectives interested in the Borden case should read.  One great strength of Brown's book is his inclusion of the long-lost testimony of Lizzie Borden from the original inquest, evidence that was not allowed during the actual trial.  He relies heavily on information from this inquest to build his case, but many of his discoveries are perfectly capable of being twisted in different directions by other sleuths.  Arnold Brown is simply too sure of himself; he has contributed useful information and speculation into the Borden murder mystery, but he allows himself to lose objectivity.  It may well be that he is correct, and many of his ideas certainly deserve intense thought and investigation, but his theories simply cannot be proven, and his overzealous attempt to explain why each actor in this drama did what he/she did actually damaged some of his credibility in my eyes.  Brown would have us believe that every halfway important man in Fall River knew the truth about the case and worked together to turn the trial into a mockery of justice for reasons that simply are not convincing, especially when you allow for the obvious public danger posed by the madman Brown dubs the actual killer.	2002-10-14
1376942:US	53016962	R1LHW2D06QYJYU	0345298411	177632623	The Clocks of Iraz	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Book two of the exciting The Reluctant King trilogy	This second novel in de Camp's The Reluctant King trilogy pales in comparison to its predecessor but does continue the exciting, highly enjoyable story of Jorian and the wizard Karadur.  After narrowly escaping Xylar with his head, Jorian wandered far from the Twelve Cities, finding himself in one deadly situation after another all throughout the land.  All he really wants is a normal, quiet life with the chosen wife he had to leave behind in Xylar.  At the beginning of this novel, he has secured a surveying job not far from Xylar, finally achieving some level of anonymity.  As soon as he receives a message from Karadur, who has found his way to Iraz, asking his help and promising assistance in rescuing his wife from Xylar, imminent danger immediately appears in the form of Xylarian guards who recognize their unbeheaded king.  Managing a wild, very narrow escape, Jorian makes his way to Iraz, where Karadur asks him to repair the gigantic water clock that his father originally built for the king years ago.  Of course, things are never quite so simple for Jorian.  This time, instead of meeting danger at every turn, danger comes to him in the form of a coordinated siege of Iraz.  Can this Barbarian Savior save the kingdom, not to mention his own hide--again?<br />This novel is somewhat shorter than The Goblin Tower, but it seems to be much shorter.  Compared to Jorian's earlier adventures, not a whole lot seems to happen in The Clocks of Iraz.  There is a lot of buildup in the middle of this novel, and the only really exciting actions takes place at the beginning and end.  On its own merits, it is still a great read, and Jorian's talent for telling fascinating stories to aid his cause makes him one of fantasy's more interesting characters (as does his habit of admitting how much everything bad that happens to him scares him).  The conclusion is a little unsatisfying, but that is primarily because it sets the stage for the final novel of the trilogy.  Be sure to read The Goblin Tower before reading this novel, especially since there are numerous references to past events included in the text.  de Camp is one of fantasy's most gifted writers, and The Clocks of Iraz offers ample proof of his genius.The Goblin Tower before reading this novel, especially since there are numerous references to past events included in the text.  de Camp is one of fantasy's most gifted writers, and The Clocks of Iraz offers ample proof of his genius.	2002-10-14
1378872:US	53016962	RZ9WFSS58CKIU	0345328124	443097379	The Goblin Tower: (#1) (Reluctant King)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Book one of the masterful The Reluctant King trilogy	L. Sprague de Camp is a master storyteller, and I quickly found myself immersed in this vivid account of Jorian's adventures.  As the tale begins, Jorian is at the end of his reign as the king of Xylar.  Each king of that realm serves only five years; then he is beheaded and his head tossed into the crowd.  Whoever catches the head, as a wandering Jorian had accidentally done five years earlier, becomes the new king.  For obvious reasons, Jorian had developed quite an attachment to his head and wanted to keep it.  With the help of the old wizard Karadur, split-second timing, and good old-fashioned luck, Jorian escapes his fate.  He then embarks on a quest to seize the Kist of Avlen as recompense for Karamur's aid (and to win his freedom from the geas placed upon him as part of the escape bargain).  Karamur serves a faction of the region's magical conclave dedicated to dispensing knowledge and use of magic to everyone, and the secrets held in the Kist are deemed crucial to the achievement of this goal.<br />Jorian's travels and adventures are thrilling, both with and without Karadur at his side.  He encounters terrible luck, betrayal, and great danger everywhere he goes, but he manages to press on with his tasks somehow.  Wanting no more than to settle down with the chosen wife he left behind in Xylar and work as a common craftsman, he is cut out to be either an adventurer or a king.  His greatest skill is actually his storytelling ability, and many of his escapes come about as a direct result of his storytelling prowess.  Many of the stories he tells are even more engaging than the story of his current adventures, I must say.  Jorian's world is a fascinating place, filled with untrustworthy magicians, numerous gods of all kinds, dangerous ape-men, lustful, dangerous women, and all manner of dangers.  The forms of government of the realms he passes through are fascinating-one land all but forbids contact between men and women, one is ruled by a power-hungry theocracy; one relies on highly complicated yet ultra-important protocols for interacting with men of all kinds of rank.  The arguments he hears as to why one government is better than others are often comical yet have unmistakable relevance to worldly matters here on planet Earth.<br />The Goblin Tower is the first of three books, collectively known as The Reluctant King trilogy, detailing the travels and experiences of Jorian and Karadur.  These are fascinating characters experiencing fascinating things.  One can only shake one's head in wonder sometimes at our reluctant heroes' ability to escape one mess only to fall into another one forthwith, but these adventures are thrilling enough to keep the reader fully immersed in this fantasy world of de Camp's creation.  L. Sprague de Camp is a legendary fantasy writer, and The Goblin Tower affords the reader a wonderful opportunity to introduce himself to the works of this master craftsman of the genre.cy; one relies on highly complicated yet ultra-important protocols for interacting with men of all kinds of rank.  The arguments he hears as to why one government is better than others are often comical yet have unmistakable relevance to worldly matters here on planet Earth.  <br />The Goblin Tower is the first of three books, collectively known as The Reluctant King trilogy, detailing the travels and experiences of Jorian and Karadur.  These are fascinating characters experiencing fascinating things.  One can only shake one's head in wonder sometimes at our reluctant heroes' ability to escape one mess only to fall into another one forthwith, but these adventures are thrilling enough to keep the reader fully immersed in this fantasy world of de Camp's creation.  L. Sprague de Camp is a legendary fantasy writer, and The Goblin Tower affords the reader a wonderful opportunity to introduce himself to the works of this master craftsman of the genre.	2002-10-12
1382836:US	53016962	R3GAEK2MCA1V4T	0345366522	320419513	The Honorable Barbarian	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Methinks this is a wild adventure	I have been familiar with the name of L. Sprague de Camp for some time, but I am only now delving into his fiction.  This book is a little peculiar; I can name several things I didn't love about the book, but overall I found it an interesting, enjoyable read.  Kerin is our honorable barbarian (branded the latter for the sole reason that he travels to the east in his recorded journey) whose family sends him on a business trip immediately after the father of the supposedly \\"virginal\\" Adeliza (she is colorfully described by one character as having \\"a hot notch in her crotch\\") catches him in a hayloft with his daughter.  He journeys to Kuromon to retrieve information on advanced clock technology.  The journey is not an easy one.  After bartering his way on to a ship, he is forced to flee from the jealousy of the captain's lust for the female navigator.  After enduring some months with the talkative, self-exiled wizard Pwana on an otherwise deserted island, he finds himself in the hands of nasty pirates intent on buggering him and eventually killing him.  Managing to escape unbuggered, he continues his journey with a princess rescued from the clutches of the dastardly pirates.  All too soon, though, the princess falls into the clutches of Pwana, who intends to sacrifice her to his god.  As if rescuing princesses is not enough, Kerin must also deliver a secret message to the Kuromon government, evade the continuing threats and attacks of the evil wizard Pwana, and abide the torment of the sprite Belinka who was hired on behalf of Adeliza to keep him away from other women (particularly the comely princess) while he is away from home.<br />One thing that hinders the flow of the narrative, particularly early on, is the dialect of the characters, each of whom speaks like a second-rate Shakespearean actor, with \\"methinks,\\" \\"cansts,\\" \\"thankees,\\" and the like permeating the narrative.  Everyone also makes a habit of referencing strangely-named gods in their rather numerous exclamations.  This is standard fantasy fare, though, and it does tend to give the novel a more exotic, otherworldly feel.  I must admit I was surprised by the amount of carnal references in these pages; there are a number of lewd jokes and loaded statements, but these are largely pretty subtle, often quite humorous, and in no way gratuitous.  The conclusion lacks oomph, I feel, and it somehow seems to be rushed without really feeling rushed.  Some of the things I viewed as most important early on ended up being rather trivial by the end, which was a little disconcerting.  Even more disconcerting was the introduction of roller skates into this seemingly medieaval fantasy world, but such a little shock to the system is by no means a bad thing.<br />The Honorable Barbarian does seem to be an offshoot of sorts of de Camp's The Reluctant King trilogy of novels, but ignorance of these other novels takes absolutely nothing away from your enjoyment of this story.  This novel was captivating enough to convince me to read these other works and to continue exploring the fictional worlds of L. Sprague de Camp.  There is just something about de Camp's writing style that distinguishes him from the crowd of modern fantasy writers, and this particular novel is certainly an enjoyable, eccentric read.lamations.  This is standard fantasy fare, though, and it does tend to give the novel a more exotic, otherworldly feel.  I must admit I was surprised by the amount of carnal references in these pages; there are a number of lewd jokes and loaded statements, but these are largely pretty subtle, often quite humorous, and in no way gratuitous.  The conclusion lacks oomph, I feel, and it somehow seems to be rushed without really feeling rushed.  Some of the things I viewed as most important early on ended up being rather trivial by the end, which was a little disconcerting.  Even more disconcerting was the introduction of roller skates into this seemingly medieaval fantasy world, but such a little shock to the system is by no means a bad thing.  <br />The Honorable Barbarian does seem to be an offshoot of sorts of de Camp's The Reluctant King trilogy of novels, but ignorance of these other novels takes absolutely nothing away from your enjoyment of this story.  This novel was captivating enough to convince me to read these other works and to continue exploring the fictional worlds of L. Sprague de Camp.  There is just something about de Camp's writing style that distinguishes him from the crowd of modern fantasy writers, and this particular novel is certainly an enjoyable, eccentric read.	2002-10-09
1387527:US	53016962	R2GDGON6OBP8GY	0380771411	748212130	A Night in the Lonesome October	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A highly original, quirky, delightful novel	Roger Zelazny is a fascinating, singularly unique writer.  What other author gives you the likes of Jack the Ripper, Count Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, and Sherlock Holmes in the same novel?  How about Lovecraftian themes and allusions?  And it's not even a horror novel.  This is wildly romping fantasy at its best.  Our narrator is a dog named Snuff; he's no ordinary dog, however.  He is the companion of Saucy Jack, the watchdog of unfathomable trapped monsters, calculator of the lines of fate, and immensely important guardian against evil.  In certain years, when the moon is right, on All Hallow's Eve, the Elder Gods seek entry back into our world.  At those times, the proper individuals and agents instinctively come to the crucial area and seek to either open or close the eldritch gates.  During such a lonesome October, these agents prepare their spells and minds for the challenge, while interacting with one another in attempts to learn from, thwart, and sometimes remove their fellow players from the Game.  Each player has a companion animal, and it is Snuff's interaction with his cohorts that drives the story along.  Snuff's greatest friend is the cat Graymalk, and their relationship and true friendship in the face of possible competition really won me over.  The Game is confusing early on, which is at it should be.  The reader must struggle to understand not only what the Game actually is but also figure out who and what is on which side of the coming conflict.  I remained relatively clueless as to how the final drama would play out, and I am happy to say I did not find it disappointing.<br />It is interesting to consider the players in this Game.  While we know Snuff serves Jack the Ripper, we see the man as a cheerful, utterly pleasant man with a grave responsibility, a veritable hero in fact; allusions are made to his trips to town for certain necessary items, and we do see him become deadly dangerous when Snuff is in danger, but largely the character is Jack and never the Ripper.  The other characters are basically all portrayed in the same fashion, and it becomes particularly amusing for the Great Detective to continue running around in the guise of a woman, especially since Snuff is never fooled by the disguise the way the humans are.<br />Zelazny gives us a fun read with this novel.  It's not particularly funny, yet I view it as a comedy in many ways.  There is one section when the text changes completely, describing a transit among the lands Lovecraft fans regard with awe and wonder, but by and large it is a fast, engrossing read sure to delight all fans of well-crafted, lively fantasy.  There is only one Roger Zelazny, and no fan of fantasy should deprive himself of the talents of this fantastic author.  I should also mention the fact that this book is replete with illustrations by the renowned Gahan Wilson; the illustrations strike me as minimalist and simplistic, but they do seem to suit the story and its style of presentation quite well, adding a further touch of distinction to this uncommonly good novel.s Jack and never the Ripper.  The other characters are basically all portrayed in the same fashion, and it becomes particularly amusing for the Great Detective to continue running around in the guise of a woman, especially since Snuff is never fooled by the disguise the way the humans are.  <br />Zelazny gives us a fun read with this novel.  It's not particularly funny, yet I view it as a comedy in many ways.  There is one section when the text changes completely, describing a transit among the lands Lovecraft fans regard with awe and wonder, but by and large it is a fast, engrossing read sure to delight all fans of well-crafted, lively fantasy.  There is only one Roger Zelazny, and no fan of fantasy should deprive himself of the talents of this fantastic author.  I should also mention the fact that this book is replete with illustrations by the renowned Gahan Wilson; the illustrations strike me as minimalist and simplistic, but they do seem to suit the story and its style of presentation quite well, adding a further touch of distinction to this uncommonly good novel.	2002-10-05
1390276:US	53016962	R3G9E450CFVF99	0553284118	528295063	Creature	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A riveting thriller	When I read a brief summary of this book, I wasn't really sure whether or not I would like it.  Somewhat to my surprise, I found this to be a riveting novel.  It's not Saul's best, but it is a great read.  Creature is a sort of utopian novel, prompting one to ponder the effects of advanced genetic manipulation and subtle mind control on a controlled population.  When Blake Tanner is suddenly promoted and transferred to Silverdale, he cannot be happier; TarrenTech only sends its future corporate elite to this small, idyllic town in Colorado.  His family is initially happy there, but they gradually come to suspect and later fear something about the place.  The total absence of junk food and colas in town would be enough to drive me out.  TarrenTech basically owns and runs the whole town, including the mysterious sports clinic (given the foolish name Rocky Mountain High).  Silverdale's high school football team is an all but unbeatable group of huge, strong athletes, earning a reputation for playing rough and dirty (despite the coach being named Phil Collins).  A childhood illness had left Mark Tanner a short and skinny guy, greatly frustrating his athletic father.  When Dr. Ames at the sports clinic says he can make Mark big and strong, Blake Tanner jumps at the chance.  He pays no heed to the experimental nature of the \\"vitamin\\" treatment or the fact that one football player seriously injured another player in a game and later pummeled Tanner's own son in a jealous rage.  When Mark soon begins to change, committing a few acts that I found particularly disturbing, Blake blames the change on teenaged hormones.  Significantly, it is the women (old and young) in this novel who sniff out the danger lurking in the perfect little town and attempt to safeguard their families from its insidious effects.<br />At first, I enjoyed this book because I love seeing the little guy get the girl despite his lack of athletic prowess, but as things really started happening in town and the focus and tenor of the novel shifted, it was the storytelling craft of Saul that kept me turning the pages eagerly.  Sure, you can tell early on the direction in which the story will go, but the ending was typically John Saul-not quite what I expected and not what I had wanted.  Saul is not going to give you a happily ever after ending, and I applaud him for that.  He remains faithful to the story from beginning to end.  At times, his characters do act a little unnaturally, their dialogue somewhat forced or their behaviors a little too puppet-like, but all in all these moments are subtle and do little harm to the reading experience.the focus and tenor of the novel shifted, it was the storytelling craft of Saul that kept me turning the pages eagerly.  Sure, you can tell early on the direction in which the story will go, but the ending was typically John Saul-not quite what I expected and not what I had wanted.  Saul is not going to give you a happily ever after ending, and I applaud him for that.  He remains faithful to the story from beginning to end.  At times, his characters do act a little unnaturally, their dialogue somewhat forced or their behaviors a little too puppet-like, but all in all these moments are subtle and do little harm to the reading experience.	2002-10-02
1393819:US	53016962	RGRHXF0CV1J75	0553262645	461406739	Nathaniel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Suspenseful and surprisingly complex	My opinion of this novel vacillated somewhat as I read it, but John Saul pretty much won me over in the end.  Initially, I worried that the main characters lacked sufficient depth, and this made me question some of their decisions and actions initially.  When Mark Hall mysteriously dies back in the hometown he left years earlier, his widow Janet and son Michael journey to the small farming village of Prairie Bend for the funeral.  Mark had never spoken about his home town or family to his wife, so Janet's grief is accompanied by a growing sense of amazement as she discovers things about her husband she never knew.  Michael's grandfather Amos is a towering figure in the novel, seemingly loving yet stiff and mysterious, while his wife Anna's importance grows as Janet, Michael, and the reader begin to piece together the events of a night twenty years earlier.  Although she is a city girl seemingly oblivious to the obvious weirdness of folks in the rural community, Janet decides to live there on the farm she never knew her husband owned.  Her son soon begins to hear a voice calling to him in the night, and he braves the danger of a shotgun-toting hermit to sneak into the man's barn.  After meeting the mysterious Nathaniel, a boy regarded by the community as a legend dating back a century, Michael begins to have headaches and begins to change.  He sees visions of what happened to his father, and-more importantly-what has been happening for years to a significant number of newborn babies in the creepily quaint village.<br />The things Michael sees and the confrontations he has with his grandfather are well told, although his whining can get tiresome in places.  The grandfather is a menacing figure in the story, one who is more complex than I initially thought.  Everything in the plot doesn't hold together perfectly, but there are no holes large enough to really matter.  There is more to the story and the legend of Nathaniel than expected, and it is worth the wait to hear the women of the family finally reveal the stories they have kept bottled up inside of them for many years.  I was especially pleased by the ending, which featured a twist I did not foresee.  I wouldn't consider this one of Saul's best novels, but it does make for very interesting reading once you get past the somewhat dull opening pages.  I didn't find any of the characters particularly likeable, but my ambivalence didn't matter much in the end.  While the novel intentionally left some questions unanswered, Saul's painstaking attention to detail and commitment to reveal his secrets only in due time makes sure the patient reader's interest is peaked at the very end.the women of the family finally reveal the stories they have kept bottled up inside of them for many years.  I was especially pleased by the ending, which featured a twist I did not foresee.  I wouldn't consider this one of Saul's best novels, but it does make for very interesting reading once you get past the somewhat dull opening pages.  I didn't find any of the characters particularly likeable, but my ambivalence didn't matter much in the end.  While the novel intentionally left some questions unanswered, Saul's painstaking attention to detail and commitment to reveal his secrets only in due time makes sure the patient reader's interest is peaked at the very end.	2002-09-29
1395981:US	53016962	R1R0RX9LUS7UX6	0440217261	545961506	California Gothic	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Forced, contrived, and unsatisfying	Finishing this novel was like waking up from a dream.  When you dream, crazy things happen to you that seem sort of real yet really weird and illogical at the time, and it doesn't take long to forget the whole thing once you wake up.  California Gothic features a disjointed narrative and a rather shaky plot.  I really don't understand what Etchison's vision or intention was in writing this novel.  Dan and Evie are happily married with one son, Eddie.  Before Dan met Evie, his former girlfriend went gung ho over an anarchist resistance group and ended up dead at the hands of government agents.  Out of the blue, Dan gets a message from his dead old flame announcing she is coming to take what is hers.  Once she gets there, things get weird for everyone.  Dan and Evie run around in circles, son Eddie and his fellow horror fan friend try to film their own horror film in the local salvage yard (with the mystery girl from Dan's past as the star), and each chapter seems to have its own separate reality.  Some people end up dead, and then book finally winds down to a welcome yet lackluster ending.  A lot of what these characters did made little sense to me, especially when two different versions of the same event started appearing in the murkier waters of the denouement.  The writing itself does little to make up for the shaky plot.  I found many of Etchison's descriptions to be rather contrived and wooden; in fact, he overdoes his descriptions to the point that they often become rather absurd.<br /><br />Individual chapters did not really seem like different stories, but they also weren't connected to each other well enough to satisfy me.  A lot of things struck me as quite goofy if not nonsensical in these pages, and the dialogues were too often forced and artificial.  I never really connected with any character, so I never really cared what happened to any of them.  This book won't bore you to tears or make you hurl it across the room, but it is far from compelling reading.	2002-09-27
1400381:US	53016962	R31L2EN1KI4DW4	0553265520	56573054	Brain Child	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Vengeance takes a futuristically medical form	Brainchild is a well-crafted, fairly thrilling read, the story holding up very well until almost the very end; had the final chapter not have been included, I would have given this book five stars.  That ultimate chapter, though--basically a postscript--changes the whole tenor of the novel and in doing so does it great harm, in my opinion.  I can forgive its inclusion, though, and it takes nothing away from the engrossing read of the novel up to that point.  This is a rather typical Saul plot, augmented by a technological pulse that holds together very well, despite some minor inherent problems.  There is a curse of sorts involved, and yes it all started over a century ago; yes, there is a rather typically happy family that find their lives turned upside down by tragedy.  These are Saul staples, yet all of this works remarkably well in Brainchild.  Your typical teenaged boy does a typically teenaged thing and ends up at the bottom of a ravine inside a thoroughly wrecked automobile.  His massive brain injuries should have killed him, but he survives; his father, a doctor, calls on the only brain specialist who can possible save his son--a childhood acquaintance of his wife's whom he essentially despises.  Miraculously, the boy does survive; he even prospers, becoming super-smart, but the rebuilding of his brain has left him without emotion and without any memory of his life before the accident.  His friends begin to avoid him eventually, and his father especially senses something very wrong, but the doctor who saved his life refuses to tell the family exactly what he did to save him.  Then his mother's friends begin to be mysteriously murdered, and a tragedy that happened long ago somehow becomes an integral part of the horror that is unleashed on an unsuspecting town.  The plot heats up quite satisfactorily from there, and there is enough unpredictability to the concluding events to keep you deeply involved in seeing how the story plays out.<br />John Saul is a talented writer, and he does a great job of keeping this story moving at all times.  Brainchild is one of his more original novels--the basic theme is rather typical of his work, but the narrative flows exceedingly well, the technological marvels we encounter remain sufficiently plausible throughout, and all of my questions were answered quite satisfactorily.  I did not like the last chapter, but that does not mean that others won't find it compelling; it does offer a final twist to things.  A futuristic medical thriller, invested heavily in horror and science fiction, Brainchild should prove itself a compelling, satisfying read for fans of several genres.nted writer, and he does a great job of keeping this story moving at all times.  Brainchild is one of his more original novels--the basic theme is rather typical of his work, but the narrative flows exceedingly well, the technological marvels we encounter remain sufficiently plausible throughout, and all of my questions were answered quite satisfactorily.  I did not like the last chapter, but that does not mean that others won't find it compelling; it does offer a final twist to things.  A futuristic medical thriller, invested heavily in horror and science fiction, Brainchild should prove itself a compelling, satisfying read for fans of several genres.	2002-09-23
1401480:US	53016962	R2KC489JGH2BC3	044018293X	202713202	Suffer the Children	Books	5	46	46	N	N	A chilling, truly disturbing horror classic	While John Saul is not held in the highest of regard by many horror fans, he is the man who first introduced me to the genre.  Some of his later novels did indeed become pretty repetitive, but his first novel, Suffer the Children, is a dead-on, unflinching classic.  This was the first truly scary book I ever read; I was probably around twelve at the time, and I remember staying up into the wee hours of the morning to finish it and then finding it almost impossible to get to sleep.  Reading it again now, it still possesses much of the power it possessed years ago.  It is a tale of a family curse, murder, schizophrenia, general unhappiness, and gruesome, frightening events.  Long ago, the scion of the Conger family killed his daughter, supposedly bringing a curse down upon the succeeding generations of his family.  Now, Jack Conger fears the curse is real.  In a drunken rage, he physically assaults his youngest little girl Sarah.  While he struggles to remember what exactly happened that day and grows increasingly estranged from his long-suffering wife, his daughter exists in a quasi-comatose state, living in her own silent fantasy world.  The Congers look at their first daughter as a true blessing through all of their pain--Elizabeth is mature beyond her years and takes care of her little sister with great love and kindness.  When several local children begin to disappear, though, the Congers' delicately balanced world finally turns completely upside down.<br />This is a pretty scary novel, largely because the horror centers around the two young sisters Elizabeth and Sarah.  The description of the gloomy woods around the home and the truly dangerous embankment nearby help produce a great dark atmosphere, but Saul's description of a series of horrible events is especially unsettling.  The story gets pretty gruesome at one point, and I think some horror writers would not be bold enough to go as far as Saul did.  Saul committed himself fully to this novel and dared to describe everything in great detail; combine that with his incredibly effective characterization of the two sisters and you get a true horror classic in every sense of the word.  Saul hooks you securely in his clutches and drags you down with him into the pits of depravity.  The ending did not provide me with a complete feeling of closure, but I certainly have no quarrel with it; in fact, the evil Saul so vividly describes almost defies comprehension and thus necessitates the type of ending Saul chose to give us.  I would highly recommend this novel to any horror fan--Saul creates a psychological atmosphere of real terror that essentially oozes out of the pores of each page.describe everything in great detail; combine that with his incredibly effective characterization of the two sisters and you get a true horror classic in every sense of the word.  Saul hooks you securely in his clutches and drags you down with him into the pits of depravity.  The ending did not provide me with a complete feeling of closure, but I certainly have no quarrel with it; in fact, the evil Saul so vividly describes almost defies comprehension and thus necessitates the type of ending Saul chose to give us.  I would highly recommend this novel to any horror fan--Saul creates a psychological atmosphere of real terror that essentially oozes out of the pores of each page.	2002-09-22
1402190:US	53016962	R2LDV2IYS31A08	0843944838	401933588	Hexes	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Refreshingly different but not completely satisfying	This isn't your run-of-the mill horror novel; it doesn't employ a simple plot or try merely to unnerve you with atrocious acts and agents.  There is gore to be found in Hexes, to be sure, but it almost came as a surprise to me each time.  As I read the tale, I found myself enveloped in a murky, fog-enshrouded atmosphere, moving back and forth across time viewing events and people I struggled to understand and come to terms with.  If you do not commit yourself to reading the entire book, you may bow out early because it does not really reach out and grab you.  Matthew Galen comes back home when he learns his old friend A.G. is suspected of murder and is being detained at the mental institution that Galen's own father once oversaw.  As Galen and A.G. converse (telepathically), we begin to get bits and pieces of the history of the town.  Increasing references to the seemingly living scars on Galen's chest and to \\"the Goat\\" offer murky clues as to the diabolical forces at work here.  As Galen seeks out the evil in his home town, the author serves up a series of flashbacks to Galen's strange history--what happened to his friends, how he learned the arcane arts (hexes, sigils, etc.) he uses to protect himself, and just what the Goat really represents.  It is not until the conclusion that we find out the biggest pieces of the puzzle, and even then I never felt comfortably sure of my knowledge of the whole business.  While the ending does offer up one important surprise, I found it somewhat disappointing and, in one particular detail, a little too convenient.<br />I think the complexity of the novel, in addition to the author's decision to withhold the most crucial bits of  information until the very end, is a weakness of sorts.  It is hard to immerse yourself in, and it becomes rather confusing at points.  For those with little knowledge of this type of horror, hinging on arcane magic, ancient grimoires, and demonic manifestations, the book may prove daunting.  For those with a passion for horror, you will find that the story is not at all Lovecraftian, despite the similarities in theme, so you can be assured that the plot and finale will not reveal themselves to you through the seemingly familiar signs you will meet upon different occasions.  Piccirilli definitely has his own style, and different readers will react to it differently.  I enjoyed his writing, but I never found myself swept away by it.  This is the kind of horror fiction that tries to lull you to sleep and then suddenly lurch upon you when you least expect it--the atrocities witnessed by the reader are described deftly, even poetically, but every last detail is included for the reader's repulsion and/or glee.  I just can't help but feel that the author held back a little at the end, that he decided not to tell me something important that would help me truly understand the book.  By and large, though, Piccirilli is a talented, refreshingly unique type of horror writer, and that makes him a rare commodity in the horror field.ith a passion for horror, you will find that the story is not at all Lovecraftian, despite the similarities in theme, so you can be assured that the plot and finale will not reveal themselves to you through the seemingly familiar signs you will meet upon different occasions.  Piccirilli definitely has his own style, and different readers will react to it differently.  I enjoyed his writing, but I never found myself swept away by it.  This is the kind of horror fiction that tries to lull you to sleep and then suddenly lurch upon you when you least expect it--the atrocities witnessed by the reader are described deftly, even poetically, but every last detail is included for the reader's repulsion and/or glee.  I just can't help but feel that the author held back a little at the end, that he decided not to tell me something important that would help me truly understand the book.  By and large, though, Piccirilli is a talented, refreshingly unique type of horror writer, and that makes him a rare commodity in the horror field.	2002-09-21
1408465:US	53016962	R3R9KXOXUDV782	0425145662	348839810	Joyride	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Fasten your seatbelts for this joyride	Jack Ketchum knows how to write a good horror story.  There is nothing exceptional or highly original about the plot of Joyride, but it is a very satisfying read.  The book opens with a murder.  Carole has been a victim throughout her entire life; her ex-husband Howard had abused her just about every way possible.  The only way to finally get rid of him, she and her new man Lee decide, is to kill him and make it look like an accident.  They think they pull off a perfect crime, but they do not realize at the time that someone else has watched the whole thing, someone even more evil and perverted than Howard.  Wayne Lock has killed things throughout his life, but he has always stopped just short of killing a human being.  He sees Carole and her ex-husband as his deliverance, kidnapping them, trying to learn from them what murder feels like.  The end result is a murder spree of epic proportions, with Carol and Lee his reluctant \\"witnesses.\\"<br />One criticism Ketchum is vulnerable to is characterization, but he does a pretty good job of it in this novel.  Oddly enough, this is most evident in the character of the policeman pursuing the mass murdering Wayne Lock.  He knows Carole's history, and she reminds him a lot of his own ex-wife; it is he, however, who makes the most significant realization about himself at the novel's conclusion.  We get snips and pieces of Wayne Lock's history, enough to explain the murderous intensity of his personality but not enough to truly understand his reasoning.  Carole and Lee are not developed fully in my mind, but this seems to me to be a positive in the context of this novel.  I never felt strongly negative or positive toward them; they moved in a haze of contradiction where good and evil continuously wove in amongst each other.<br />There is plenty of carnage in this book--that's pretty much a given with Ketchum.  Another given, and this is what makes Ketchum such a great horror writer, is a brutally honest plot that will not cheat the reader at the end.  It is hard to predict a Ketchum ending, which is the main reason I respect him greatly as an author.  The cavalry doesn't appear magically over the hill to save the day--instead, things happen the way they would most likely happen in real life--good and evil are second-string players in this game; reality itself determines the fate of Ketchum's characters.  This makes for a gripping read, even in a case such as this where the storyline is nothing remarkably original.t the reader at the end.  It is hard to predict a Ketchum ending, which is the main reason I respect him greatly as an author.  The cavalry doesn't appear magically over the hill to save the day--instead, things happen the way they would most likely happen in real life--good and evil are second-string players in this game; reality itself determines the fate of Ketchum's characters.  This makes for a gripping read, even in a case such as this where the storyline is nothing remarkably original.	2002-09-15
1409018:US	53016962	R2SDKC1HL26TMV	0829804226	675767396	Come sweet death: A quintet from Genesis	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A complex, lyrical retelling of the Genesis stories	Knowing virtually nothing about the author, this unique book is going to be particularly hard to review.  This is basically poetry of a rather abstract sort, broken up into five sections: The Garden, The Brothers, The Flood, The Tower, and The Land.  The author introduces each section with a scriptural passage from Genesis, then rewrites the tale thus told in an entirely modern, disconcerting way.  He apparently does have a good bit of Biblical knowledge, but he treats the material more as myth than as divine revelation.  Even if the events never happened, they necessarily \\"are\\" now and forever, and Napier runs with this idea, making his lyrical re-telling a present-tense yet timeless story.  His speakers refer to places and events throughout history and sometimes play off of modern phrases and references.  The author describes this book as an \\"existentialist interpretation\\" of the major events of Genesis' opening chapter, but I don't think I would classify it as such.  It is rather striking, however, as Adam and Cain basically claim the world as their own domain, criticize God for punishing them for things he supposedly led them into, and do all but tell God to go jump in the lake.  I was expecting a poignant, somewhat inspiring retelling of the Genesis stories, but I in fact got just the opposite.  Each \\"speaker\\" basically concludes his personal quintet with the plea \\"come sweet death,\\" essentially refuting God entirely.  The opening section is particularly disconcerting, as Adam criticizes and lambasts God from the time of his creation to the moment of his expulsion from the Garden (which came about because of \\"a silly tree\\").  All I can do is describe the unusual nature of this book; I think the interpretation of it is a purely subjective, personal one that may vary widely from one reader to the next.	2002-09-14
1409339:US	53016962	R3CAKJCMFVDFV0	0345312376	291239761	Hide and Seek	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Genuinely scary to this horror veteran	Jack Ketchum is one of horror's most gifted writers and has attracted a cult following over the past two decades that now includes yours truly among its ranks.  Why his talent has not been brought to the attention of more horror and mainstream fiction fans is a mystery to me.  Hide and Seek, his second published novel, varies significantly from his incredible debut novel Off Season, but it packs just as much of a punch as its predecessor.  Where Off Season was horrible and disturbing, Hide and Seek is downright spooky.  I have read enough horror to become immune to the scare tactics most authors rely on, but Ketchum managed to really give me the creeps in the later chapters of this incredible tale.  The book does start a little slowly, with character development taking up the first half of it, but midway through Ketchum cranks up the tension and advances the plot at an increasingly intensive, addicting pace.  About thirty pages from the end, I found myself covering up the right hand page with my hand because it was all I could do to stop myself from jumping ahead and seeing how things played out.  I must say that I found myself more than satisfied with the ending.  Many authors put their characters through the ringer only to wrap things up with a fairy tale ending.  Ketchum is far too honest to back down at the last minute and give his readers what they might want at the end.  This honesty and loyalty to both his characters and his readers is what distinguishes Ketchum in my mind as one of horror's most praiseworthy writers.<br />The story itself seems rather simple and conventional: two young men and two young women go to an abandoned house out in the woods of Maine in order to play a game of adult hide and seek--the house has long been the subject of gossip and rumors but it cannot really be characterized as haunted.  The idea for this seemingly foolish pursuit comes from Casey, a complicated, fascinating female character.  Her constant shows of bravado and risk-taking bother our protagonist yet he never refuses her requests.  The first half of the novel establishes Casey's character and background pretty well, so the context of the game makes sense to the reader.  When the gang arrive at midnight and commence their game, this novel quickly shifts into overdrive.  Having to follow our protagonist around this creepy house in the dark, searching for the hiding places of his friends, got this reader's blood pumping a little harder, but the increasingly scary nature of the game is actually no more than a prelude of the horror to come.<br />The only flaw I can identify in my own mind is Ketchum's level of characterization.  He spends a lot of time introducing us to the four players of the hide and seek game, but I never fully came to know them.  The complex Casey remains somewhat of an enigma to me despite the revelations we receive about her life and history.  A few events seem very important when they happen but are never fully dealt with later on.  Of course, Ketchum is mainly trying to scare readers, and to some extent it matters little whether or not we completely understand and care deeply about the players in his fictional universe.  The fears Ketchum manipulates here are some of man's most primal, instinctive ones, which makes it almost impossible for the reader not to get sucked into the story and taken along for a wild ride.  If you have begun to think that all horror novels are basically alike, Ketchum will surprise and delight you with his refreshing originality, realism, and honesty.taking bother our protagonist yet he never refuses her requests.  The first half of the novel establishes Casey's character and background pretty well, so the context of the game makes sense to the reader.  When the gang arrive at midnight and commence their game, this novel quickly shifts into overdrive.  Having to follow our protagonist around this creepy house in the dark, searching for the hiding places of his friends, got this reader's blood pumping a little harder, but the increasingly scary nature of the game is actually no more than a prelude of the horror to come.  <br />The only flaw I can identify in my own mind is Ketchum's level of characterization.  He spends a lot of time introducing us to the four players of the hide and seek game, but I never fully came to know them.  The complex Casey remains somewhat of an enigma to me despite the revelations we receive about her life and history.  A few events seem very important when they happen but are never fully dealt with later on.  Of course, Ketchum is mainly trying to scare readers, and to some extent it matters little whether or not we completely understand and care deeply about the players in his fictional universe.  The fears Ketchum manipulates here are some of man's most primal, instinctive ones, which makes it almost impossible for the reader not to get sucked into the story and taken along for a wild ride.  If you have begun to think that all horror novels are basically alike, Ketchum will surprise and delight you with his refreshing originality, realism, and honesty.	2002-09-14
1411975:US	53016962	R1NYTRTKI104Q4	0747250456	710004252	Off Season	Books	5	58	62	N	N	Extreme horror at its best	First and foremost, it must be said that Off Season is not for the feint of heart; this is a visceral, brutal, unrestrained, exceedingly realistic novel that may sicken and disgust those unprepared for such extreme horror.  The cover of my copy proclaims this \\"The Ultimate Horror Novel.\\"  I would not go that far in my assessment, but the suggestion doesn't fall very far from the mark.  Ketchum held nothing back and pulled no punches in this, his first published novel.  The story is rather simple but is far from simplistic.  A group of six adults (three male, three female) retreat to a remote cabin in the woods of Maine for a week of relaxation.  Unbeknownst to them, a family-group of utterly primitive, sadistic quasi-humans watch, wait, and eventually attack.  Among this group are a number of wild children, and it is the children that have the most significant impact on the characters as well as the reader.  The battle rages for some time, and many very bad things happen as the innocent victims do everything they can think of in order to survive.  I found the conclusion to be spectacular; rest assured it is not the formulaic ending we see so often in novels of this sort.<br />I won't attempt to describe the horrible things the depraved attackers do--imagine the worst things you can think of, then imagine how much worse the unthinkable is, then imagine children taking part in it.  This really is one of the goriest, most extreme horror novels I have read, but it rises far above any charges of shock value or gore for gore's sake.  It would have been a disservice to the reader had Ketchum not made the awful individuals he described behave in such a fashion; in fact, I would suggest that these characters of Ketchum's creation committed such atrocities on their own and that Ketchum the writer had no choice but to tell their story truthfully and realistically.  It is this utter, unimaginable realism that really sinks its claws into you and immerses you in this nightmare landscape of Ketchum's genius.  Extreme horror used gratuitously accords the author little respect in my book, but extreme horror written as honestly and dare I say respectfully as that of Off Season deserves the utmost respect that I, as an epicure in the horrible, can possibly give to an author.landscape of Ketchum's genius.  Extreme horror used gratuitously accords the author little respect in my book, but extreme horror written as honestly and dare I say respectfully as that of Off Season deserves the utmost respect that I, as an epicure in the horrible, can possibly give to an author.	2002-09-11
1415250:US	53016962	R3GLROWKE1CVRP	0440218683	551629595	Double Edge	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A great premise lost in an unoriginal story	Dennis Etchison is hailed as a great writer of psychological horror, but the strength and originality of his short stories is never fully brought to bear in his novels.  The whole Lizzie Borden premise underlying the plot of Double Edge is interesting, but this novel is far from original.  Jenny Marlow has researched the Borden murders and reached her own conclusion as to the identity of the murderer; she and her husband have pitched a docudrama to a cable network and hope to see their dreams realized in a Lizzie Borden miniseries.  Then her husband's parents die in a horrible accident ....  From this point on, she and her husband basically have no more contact with one another, living separate lives as a series of grisly deaths invade their private world.  Jenny's relationship with her friend Libby becomes as important as it is confusing; Libby takes her friend with her to a strange type of women's \\"club,\\" one in which a blind woman channels information and speaks constantly of \\"Companions.\\"  There are many allusions to duality throughout the novel, all of which plays directly off of the Lizzie Borden history, but the seeming possibilities the Borden premise provides are never taken advantage of or realized.  The conclusion works but does not impress.  I should add that you don't really need to know much about the actual Borden murder case to make your way through this novel, and I actually found myself more disappointed in the end than I might have been had I not brought a strong interest in Lizzie Borden's history with me to the tale.<br />My main criticism of the novel is that I never really understood the characters.  They moved like wooden puppets controlled by the author; I could not sympathize with their pains nor really care very much about any of them.  Some of the behavior they indulged in made little sense to me in the context of the story, and the two protagonists seemed more like strangers than man and wife, even on the few occasions when they were actually together.  Etchison kept my interest throughout the novel, but he never hooked me emotionally.  Double Edge is a perfectly acceptable horror novel, but there is nothing about it that distinguishes it from most other horror novels written in the past couple of decades.tually together.  Etchison kept my interest throughout the novel, but he never hooked me emotionally.  Double Edge is a perfectly acceptable horror novel, but there is nothing about it that distinguishes it from most other horror novels written in the past couple of decades.	2002-09-08
1415334:US	53016962	R3Q888E40B3NOG	0486278026	43217624	Macbeth (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Lay on, Macduff!	While I was basically familiar with Shakespeare's Tragedy of Macbeth, I have only recently actually read the bard's brilliant play.  The drama is quite dark and moody, but this atmosphere serves Shakespeare's purposes well.  In Macbeth, we delve deeply into the heart of a true fiend, a man who would betray the king, who showers honors upon him, in a vainglorious snatch at power.  Yet Macbeth is not 100% evil, nor is he a truly brave soul.  He waxes and wanes over the execution of his nefarious plans, and he thereafter finds himself haunted by the blood on his own hands and by the ethereal spirits of the innocent men he has had murdered.  On his own, Macbeth is much too cowardly to act so traitorously to his kind and his country.  The source of true evil in these pages is the cold and calculating Lady Macbeth; it is she who plots the ultimate betrayal, forcefully pushes her husband to perform the dreadful acts, and cleans up after him when he loses his nerve. This extraordinary woman is the lynchpin of man's eternal fascination with this drama.  I find her behavior a little hard to account for in the closing act, but she looms over every single male character we meet here, be he king, loyalist, nobleman, courtier, or soldier.  Lady Macbeth is one of the most complicated, fascinating, unforgettable female characters in all of literature.<br />The plot does not seem to move along as well as Shakespeare's other most popular dramas, but I believe this is a result of the writer's intense focus on the human heart rather than the secondary activity that surrounds the related royal events.  It is fascinating if sometimes rather disjointed reading.  One problem I had with this play in particular was one of keeping up with each of the many characters that appear in the tale; the English of Shakespeare's time makes it difficult for me to form lasting impressions of the secondary characters, of whom there are many.  Overall, though, Macbeth has just about everything a great drama needs: evil deeds, betrayal, murder, fighting, ghosts, omens, cowardice, heroism, love, and, as a delightful bonus, mysterious witches.  Very many of Shakespeare's more famous quotes are also to be found in these pages, making it an important cultural resource for literary types.  The play doesn't grab your attention and absorb you into its world the way Hamlet or Romeo and Juliet does, but this voyage deep into the heart of evil, jealousy, selfishness, and pride forces you to consider the state of your own deep-seated wishes and dreams, and for that reason there are as many interpretations of the essence of the tragedy as there are readers of this Shakespearean masterpiece.  No man's fall can rival that of Macbeth's, and there is a great object lesson to be found in this drama.  You cannot analyze Macbeth without analyzing yourself to some degree, and that goes a long way toward accounting for the Tragedy of Macbeth's literary importance and longevity.a needs: evil deeds, betrayal, murder, fighting, ghosts, omens, cowardice, heroism, love, and, as a delightful bonus, mysterious witches.  Very many of Shakespeare's more famous quotes are also to be found in these pages, making it an important cultural resource for literary types.  The play doesn't grab your attention and absorb you into its world the way Hamlet or Romeo and Juliet does, but this voyage deep into the heart of evil, jealousy, selfishness, and pride forces you to consider the state of your own deep-seated wishes and dreams, and for that reason there are as many interpretations of the essence of the tragedy as there are readers of this Shakespearean masterpiece.  No man's fall can rival that of Macbeth's, and there is a great object lesson to be found in this drama.  You cannot analyze Macbeth without analyzing yourself to some degree, and that goes a long way toward accounting for the Tragedy of Macbeth's literary importance and longevity.	2002-09-08
1419617:US	53016962	R14CJTPEJ2OUZI	0926524283	127345875	The Andreasson Affair, Phase Two: The Continuing Investigation of a Woman's Abduction by Alien Beings	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Fascinating but problematic	This second book about the abduction experiences of Betty Andreasson Luca and her husband Bob Luca proves much more fascinating than the initial book.  In a sense, this book is a prequel to its predecessor because it deals with alleged abductions experienced during Betty's childhood.  What continues to set the Andreasson Affair apart from other abduction stories is the pervasive religious connotation placed by Betty on her experiences.  Her story remains rather unique in this respect in the abduction literature in general.  It is perhaps for this reason that her story is rarely mentioned by other researchers.  One cannot say whether the events Betty recalls actually happened, although the bulk of evidence indicates that something indeed happened, and it remains virtually impossible to determine if her own feelings that the UFO occupants are angelic emissaries from God are correct or whether her own fundamentalist faith has worked its way into her mental processes as a way of making the unbelievable more acceptable and easier for her to deal with.<br />I am rather ambivalent when it comes to Andreasson's experiences, largely because this book betrays to me  several weaknesses in the case.  For example, the author only personally attended one hypnotic regression session described here, relying mainly on tapes and videos along with the information provided by his associate investigator.  Distance accounts for his inability to attend the sessions, but it presents a problem to me.  Most importantly, the hypnotist, while a learned behavioral psychologist, had no experience with the hypnosis of alien abductees; many times, I felt he did ask leading questions and sometimes raced ahead of his subject, leaving his own trail of information for her to follow.  The absence of Fowler at the sessions left the hypnotist out on his own too often, and this accounted for most of the problems I have with the regression sessions.<br />Fowler also seems to be of two minds when making his points.  He stresses the unique importance of this case of high strangeness, but he often rushes through other UFO materials to find anything at all that sounds similar to something Betty reported.  He does attempt to place the Andreasson Affair in the context of abduction literature in general toward the end of the book, but he seems to go off on tangents that have little to do with the case at hand.  He also cites sources that are questionable at best (such as an article from the Weekly World News tabloid).  This does not mean the story is not true, of course.  If Andreasson's revelations are accurate, this is an extraordinarily important case.  For now, all of this information is greatly intriguing and invokes more questions than it answers, but there is just not enough evidence for the reader to come to a definite conclusion as to the truth of this matter.his points.  He stresses the unique importance of this case of high strangeness, but he often rushes through other UFO materials to find anything at all that sounds similar to something Betty reported.  He does attempt to place the Andreasson Affair in the context of abduction literature in general toward the end of the book, but he seems to go off on tangents that have little to do with the case at hand.  He also cites sources that are questionable at best (such as an article from the Weekly World News tabloid).  This does not mean the story is not true, of course.  If Andreasson's revelations are accurate, this is an extraordinarily important case.  For now, all of this information is greatly intriguing and invokes more questions than it answers, but there is just not enough evidence for the reader to come to a definite conclusion as to the truth of this matter.	2002-09-04
1421311:US	53016962	RWIVOUL6UOW80	0192834169	43217624	Hamlet (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Goodnight, sweet prince	Admittedly, there is really nothing I can say about Shakespeare's brilliant The Tragedy of Hamlet that has not been said before.  The fact that this tragedy is so praiseworthy does not mean it should no longer be praised, though.  So many of us had to read Hamlet in school, but there is something to be said and much to be gained by reading it on one's own again for pure pleasure.  The story is a compelling one, the characters are sharply presented and unforgettable, and the play represents human tragedy in the fullest sense of the word.  No matter how well you know the story, you as a reader are totally captivated by the human drama of the ill-fated prince of Denmark.  The Bard's characters are incredibly human, be they good or evil, powerful or fragile.  One can delight in the downfall of evil men and lament the fate of their innocent victims.  The language is beautiful but difficult, of course.  I often found myself rereading lines or entire passages to try and get a better sense of their meaning, and even then some vagaries of the language escaped me.  The story itself, though, is vividly revealed through the Bard's poetic words, and even the most insensible lines roll off the tongue beautifully.  I was most amazed by all of the famous lines and quotations found in this one drama; pop culture itself almost demands of you some knowledge of Hamlet.  If \\"Alas, poor Yorick!  I knew him, Horatio\\" or \\"Something is rotten in the state of Denmark\\" mean nothing to you, you would do well to brush up on your Hamlet.  If you draw a blank at the words \\"To be or not to be,\\" you might want to check your pulse to see if you still have one.<br />I will not attempt any literary criticism here because libraries are already overflowing with books on the subject.  The madness of Hamlet is, I suppose, debatable; certainly, his madness is feigned early on, and I have much admiration for his manner of calling forth the guilty conscience of those who wronged his father through his supposed ravings, but one must particularly question his dealings with the lovely and innocent Ophelia.  Madness, rage, murder, incest (of a sort), graveyards, sword fighting, poison, love, betrayal--this play has all of these things and more, yet it is the great humanity of Prince Hamlet himself which makes this tragedy foremost among all of the Great Bard's dramas.  Good and evil exist in each soul; evil does not always lose, and good does not always win.  Shakespeare understood this, and that is why this tragedy will always serve as a literary mirror in which careful readers can peer into the depths of their own souls.osed ravings, but one must particularly question his dealings with the lovely and innocent Ophelia.   Madness, rage, murder, incest (of a sort), graveyards, sword fighting, poison, love, betrayal--this play has all of these things and more, yet it is the great humanity of Prince Hamlet himself which makes this tragedy foremost among all of the Great Bard's dramas.  Good and evil exist in each soul; evil does not always lose, and good does not always win.  Shakespeare understood this, and that is why this tragedy will always serve as a literary mirror in which careful readers can peer into the depths of their own souls.	2002-09-03
1423985:US	53016962	R1P7V0IJVZ34RX	014044100X	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	4	101	109	N	N	1500 years before Homer	The Epic of Gilgamesh is a fascinating tale of great historical importance.  Composed 1500 years before Homer's epics, the story is one that modern man can readily understand and appreciate.  Gilgamesh was the more than capable ruler of the ancient town of Uruk; his strength and physical beauty were unmatched by any in the land, and his subjects adored him.  Although he possessed so much, Gilgamesh wanted desperately to live forever like a god.  He was two-thirds god and one-third human, but he refused to accept his destiny to die.  If it were his lot to die, he wanted to perform great deeds so that his name would never be forgotten.<br />The story opens with the story of Enkidu, a wild man of nature who was to become Gilgamesh's best friend and accompany him on his dangerous journeys.  The first trip takes them to the Land of the Cedars where Gilgamesh sets out to kill Humbaba, the guardian of the forest.  When he later slays the Bull of Heaven, the anger of the gods is turned upon him and Enkidu, leading to new suffering by Gilgamesh.  In desperation, he seeks Utnapishtim in the land of the gods; Utnapishtim was granted eternal life after preserving mankind in the wake of a great flood.  Gilgamesh again finds only heartache for his troubles.  Returning to Uruk, he preserves the story of his journeys and deeds in writing, and it is, perhaps ironically, in this written record that Gilgamesh is recognized today for the great man he was.<br />One learns much about the ancient gods in this tale, and the story of the great goddess Ishtar's role in the related events is pretty amazing.  When Ishtar invited Gilgamesh to be her husband, he issued forth a litany of former lovers whom Ishtar had turned out and cursed, boldly rebuffing Ishtar's advances.  It is this brave act that led to most of Gilgamesh's later troubles.  Even Enkidu, whose reported bravery is belied by his reluctance to aid his noble friend in several situations, is rather astonishingly disrespectful to the goddess.<br />N. K. Sandars does a remarkable job of putting the epic in its proper historical and literary perspective.  A glossary of relevant gods and characters is particularly helpful.  Along with providing a short history of the man, the gods, and the epic itself, she goes to great lengths to explain her method of producing this modern translation.  There is no one extant copy of the Epic of Gilgamesh; a number of tablets, in varying degrees of condition and legibility and differing somewhat in the details of the story, have been compared and contrasted in order to produce the story as she presents it.  Perhaps the most useful part of the introduction is an explanation of the form and style of the text.  The text was originally told in verse, and Sandars explains that she chose to produce the text in narrative form in the interest of readability.  As the order of events is not universally agreed upon, she explains why she chose the order she did for events.  One annoying feature of the text, at least to the modern reader, is the constant word for word repetition of speeches between characters, and Sandars does the reader a great service by alerting him/her to this and explaining the rationale behind its use by the ancient writers.<br />The Epic of Gilgamesh is one of the oldest written texts in history, yet its theme is timeless, its characters all too human, and its appeal universal.  Sandars' modern, narrative translation transforms the historically important epic into an eminently readable, quite enjoyable story.  The tale of a great flood in this incredibly ancient tale has raised eyebrows ever since the text was discovered. The parallels to the Biblical tale of Noah are obvious, adding great strength to the argument that the legend or memory of a cataclysmic flood was common to diverse cultures in the ancient Near East.  Those familiar with the ideas of Zechariah Sitchin will find this story especially fascinating and illuminating.the goddess.  <br />N. K. Sandars does a remarkable job of putting the epic in its proper historical and literary perspective.  A glossary of relevant gods and characters is particularly helpful.  Along with providing a short history of the man, the gods, and the epic itself, she goes to great lengths to explain her method of producing this modern translation.  There is no one extant copy of the Epic of Gilgamesh; a number of tablets, in varying degrees of condition and legibility and differing somewhat in the details of the story, have been compared and contrasted in order to produce the story as she presents it.  Perhaps the most useful part of the introduction is an explanation of the form and style of the text.  The text was originally told in verse, and Sandars explains that she chose to produce the text in narrative form in the interest of readability.  As the order of events is not universally agreed upon, she explains why she chose the order she did for events.  One annoying feature of the text, at least to the modern reader, is the constant word for word repetition of speeches between characters, and Sandars does the reader a great service by alerting him/her to this and explaining the rationale behind its use by the ancient writers. <br />The Epic of Gilgamesh is one of the oldest written texts in history, yet its theme is timeless, its characters all too human, and its appeal universal.  Sandars' modern, narrative translation transforms the historically important epic into an eminently readable, quite enjoyable story.  The tale of a great flood in this incredibly ancient tale has raised eyebrows ever since the text was discovered. The parallels to the Biblical tale of Noah are obvious, adding great strength to the argument that the legend or memory of a cataclysmic flood was common to diverse cultures in the ancient Near East.  Those familiar with the ideas of Zechariah Sitchin will find this story especially fascinating and illuminating.	2002-08-31
1429822:US	53016962	RP50TEZJYR61N	055321277X	732800244	Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	A psychological drama of the dual nature of man	The tale of Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde has been quite familiar to me for as long as I can remember, but only now have I read the original short novel by Robert Louis Stevenson.  It is unfortunate that familiarity has robbed modern readers of the suspense that almost certainly was engendered in Stevenson's contemporary audience.  Nor can I attribute a strong hint of terror in these pages, partly because of the plot structure.  This is not a straightforward story; we don't follow Dr. Jeckyll in his experimentation.  Rather, we are introduced to Jeckyll and Hyde through Jeckyll's lawyer Mr. Utterson.  Having drawn up Jeckyll's will to leave everything to Hyde should he disappear, he is most concerned for his client and friend upon learning that Mr. Hyde is a misshapen monster of a man responsible for trampling a young girl in the street.  The first half of the book follows Utterson's attempts to discover this Mr. Hyde for himself.  The final half of the book contains the story of Jeckyll and Hide, told first in the words of a mutual friend and doctor and ultimately in an account of events penned by the unfortunate Dr. Jeckyll.<br />It goes without saying that the heart of the story revolves around the duality of the human mind.  Each of us has a dark side as well as a good side, and the majority of individuals attempt to disguise any bad, uncontrollable aspects of their natures from the public.  Dr. Jeckyll had a predilection for thoughts and acts which he and society frowned upon (although what these acts were is never revealed); as he neared middle age, his life became defined by a continuous inner struggle to keep on the straight and narrow path.  He often failed, so he came up with the idea of totally separating his evil nature from his good one.  Through the use of chemistry, he developed a solution that, when ingested, transformed him into a different persona in both body and mind, one which had free reign to indulge anonymously in those worldly delights Dr. Jeckyll secretly lusted after.  He thought that his original persona would then be freed of the guilt of his desires, while his Mr. Hyde persona could satiate himself in performing guilty actions without any moral restraint.  As is only natural, the dark side grew stronger as time passed, and the person of Dr. Jeckyll found himself in more of a quandary than he ever dreamed of before giving birth to Mr. Hyde.<br />Inner conflict between the good and bad in ourselves is something every reader can easily understand, and it is this psychological aspect of Stevenson's famous short novel that accounts for the tale's continuing popularity.  It is a quick and absorbing read, but the method of the tale's presentation is a slight weakness in my opinion.  We can only watch the human drama from a third person perspective, and I would like to have gotten more deeply inside the mind of Jeckyll and Hyde.  Still, this is a classic of literature that will retain its place in popular culture for untold years to come.  As for the afterword by Jerome Charyn in the Bantam edition of the book, I must say I could have done without it.  It does provide some interesting background on Stevenson, but its psychological assumptions and surmises struck me as overdramatic and groundless.  The story of Jeckyll and Hyde stands strongly on its own merits and does not need to be accompanied by psychobabble.yll secretly lusted after.  He thought that his original persona would then be freed of the guilt of his desires, while his Mr. Hyde persona could satiate himself in performing guilty actions without any moral restraint.  As is only natural, the dark side grew stronger as time passed, and the person of Dr. Jeckyll found himself in more of a quandary than he ever dreamed of before giving birth to Mr. Hyde.  <br />Inner conflict between the good and bad in ourselves is something every reader can easily understand, and it is this psychological aspect of Stevenson's famous short novel that accounts for the tale's continuing popularity.  It is a quick and absorbing read, but the method of the tale's presentation is a slight weakness in my opinion.  We can only watch the human drama from a third person perspective, and I would like to have gotten more deeply inside the mind of Jeckyll and Hyde.  Still, this is a classic of literature that will retain its place in popular culture for untold years to come.  As for the afterword by Jerome Charyn in the Bantam edition of the book, I must say I could have done without it.  It does provide some interesting background on Stevenson, but its psychological assumptions and surmises struck me as overdramatic and groundless.  The story of Jeckyll and Hyde stands strongly on its own merits and does not need to be accompanied by psychobabble.	2002-08-25
1430142:US	53016962	R1O5KMDOY2FLTE	0061020672	469869447	Sourcery	Books	5	34	37	N	N	It's up to Rincewind to save the world.  Oook!	As a big Rincewind fan, I count Sourcery as one of my favorite Pratchett novels.  This fifth novel of Discworld is the first to have a real epic quality to it.  Seeing as how the plot is hinged around the \\"Apocralypse\\" (even though an inebriated Pestilence, War, and Famine cannot remember the proper term for it), it pretty much has to be an epic.  Ipslore was a natural-born wizard, the eight son of an eighth son, who did the unthinkable (not to mention unwizardly) act of marrying and having an eighth son of his own--a sourcerer.  By tricking Death, he enters his own wizard staff and later guides the ten-year-old boy Coin in assuming the Archchancellorship of Unseen University and trying to take over the world.  A sourcerer has free rein over the use of magic, unlike modern-day wizards who talk about magic but rarely perform it.  Sourcerers almost destroyed the Discworld in ancient times in the Mage Wars, and young Coin sets in motion a modern-day Mage War that can only end in disaster.  Only one man can stop the sourcerer and save the world--most unfortunately, that one man is the inept wizard Rincewind.  His only allies are the wise and good Librarian (who happens to be an orangutan), the beautiful yet deadly thief Conina (daughter of Cohen the Barbarian), and Nigel, the skinniest hero on the Discworld whose only heroic wisdom comes from a ghost-written book by Cohen the aforementioned Barbarian.  The Luggage also plays a part, but he/she/it is not there at Rincewind's side.<br /><br />I love how the character of Rincewind is strengthened and expanded in this novel; he's still the funny little man in a pointy hat that we met in earlier Discworld novels, but instead of running around all over the world trying to avoid dying, Rincewind is transformed in these pages into a hero--not a very good one, of course, but a hero nonetheless.  His commitment to wizardry is steadfast and firm, while the vast majority of successful wizards go along with Coin, delight in the new magical powers they gain through sourcery, and eventually wage a magical war among themselves in the pursuit of raw power.  Rincewind redeems himself admirably here by actually performing some acts of bravery, risking his life--albeit reluctantly--for the sake of the Discworld.<br />The book starts out like gangbusters, and although it loses a little steam and wanders a little bit in the later stages, the conclusion brings everything together rather nicely.  It does, however, leave a few questions unanswered for the time being. The character of Coin, the ten-year-old sourcerer, could have used more thrashing out, I felt, but Conina and Nigel are very interesting new characters in Pratchett's universe.  Sourcery is overflowing with typical Pratchett humor, but it also features an exciting, narrowly-focused storyline that provides a wealth of new information about the wizards of Unseen University, the brave and wise banana-craving Librarian, and the crucial role and importance of magic in the Discworld.  Whereas earlier novels sometimes seemed to have stories built around the jokes, this novel is built upon a solid foundation of an epic fantasy plot--the comedy is just icing on the cake.  Of the first five Discworld novels, this is by far the most exciting and entertaining.agical powers they gain through sourcery, and eventually wage a magical war among themselves in the pursuit of raw power.  Rincewind redeems himself admirably here by actually performing some acts of bravery, risking his life--albeit reluctantly--for the sake of the Discworld. <br />The book starts out like gangbusters, and although it loses a little steam and wanders a little bit in the later stages, the conclusion brings everything together rather nicely.  It does, however, leave a few questions unanswered for the time being. The character of Coin, the ten-year-old sourcerer, could have used more thrashing out, I felt, but Conina and Nigel are very interesting new characters in Pratchett's universe.  Sourcery is overflowing with typical Pratchett humor, but it also features an exciting, narrowly-focused storyline that provides a wealth of new information about the wizards of Unseen University, the brave and wise banana-craving Librarian, and the crucial role and importance of magic in the Discworld.  Whereas earlier novels sometimes seemed to have stories built around the jokes, this novel is built upon a solid foundation of an epic fantasy plot--the comedy is just icing on the cake.  Of the first five Discworld novels, this is by far the most exciting and entertaining.	2002-08-25
1431208:US	53016962	RXU3I5OXLMP7B	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Why is there a cherry on a stick in this drink?	This fourth book in the Discworld series is the first to achieve truly classic status, in my opinion.  Its predecessors were great reads, but Mort is a real riot.  The skeleton of the plot has a few cracked bones and seems to be missing whatever connects the setup bone with the conclusion bone, but the humor is more than a saving grace for the awkward ending.  Poor Mort is a gangly, clumsy lad seemingly made out of all knees; his father is fond of him but decides to apprentice him to someone else.  That someone else turns out to be Death himself (although the father sees him as an undertaker).  Mort is whisked off to Death's abode to be trained as Death's apprentice.  On his first solo mission, he rips a big hole in the fabric of time by saving a princess from assassination.  Death is off trying to experience living, so Mort attempts to make things right with the help of Death's adopted daughter Ysabell (who has been sixteen for thirty five years already), the young wizard Cutwell, the princess, and--with great reluctance--Death's manservant Albert.<br />This is a riotously funny novel.  I can truly say that Death has never been funnier.  Being the reaper of souls for untold years does wear a guy down, and Death goes out into the real world to try and discover what life is all about.  We find him dancing in a kind of conga line at a party for the Patrician, asking the guy in front of him why dancing around and kicking things over is fun; we see him getting boozed up at a bar and telling his troubles to the bartender, we find him seeking employment and dealing with a normal human customer, and we ultimately find him happily serving as the cook at Harga's House of Ribs.  His questions and comments about human life are simple yet complex, and they basically mimic the same kinds of questions we all ask about the purpose of our time on earth.  I personally found the funniest scene to be one in which Death takes Mort to a restaurant just after hiring him and tries to figure out why on earth there is a cherry on a stick in his drink--as he keeps returning to this mental conundrum, the scene just gets funnier and funnier.<br />To some degree, this novel is a bit simplistic compared to later Pratchett writings, but it is a quick, enjoyable read guaranteed to make you laugh out loud at least once.  We get a glimpse of some new vistas of the Discworld, and more importantly we gain great understanding and familiarity with Death, his abode,  and his way of non-life.  The wizard Cutwell is a young, beardless wizard who keeps finding his devotion to wizardry (especially the whole bachelorhood requirement) tested by the beguiling femininity of the princess--his temptation-forced words and actions provide another great source of humor in the book.  The cast of important characters if fairly slim in number, but we do meet up with our old friends Rincewind and the librarian momentarily and learn a little more about Unseen University.  The ending definitely could have been better, and that is the main weakness of this particular novel.  Other Discworld novels will capture your imagination much more forcibly than this one, but few will make you laugh as hard as this one does.ure out why on earth there is a cherry on a stick in his drink--as he keeps returning to this mental conundrum, the scene just gets funnier and funnier.  <br />To some degree, this novel is a bit simplistic compared to later Pratchett writings, but it is a quick, enjoyable read guaranteed to make you laugh out loud at least once.  We get a glimpse of some new vistas of the Discworld, and more importantly we gain great understanding and familiarity with Death, his abode,  and his way of non-life.  The wizard Cutwell is a young, beardless wizard who keeps finding his devotion to wizardry (especially the whole bachelorhood requirement) tested by the beguiling femininity of the princess--his temptation-forced words and actions provide another great source of humor in the book.  The cast of important characters if fairly slim in number, but we do meet up with our old friends Rincewind and the librarian momentarily and learn a little more about Unseen University.  The ending definitely could have been better, and that is the main weakness of this particular novel.  Other Discworld novels will capture your imagination much more forcibly than this one, but few will make you laugh as hard as this one does.	2002-08-24
1435494:US	53016962	RK6AP1TH3UMI4	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	3	37	46	N	N	One of my less enjoyable trips to the Discworld	Equal Rites is the third Discworld novel, and in it Pratchett begins to reveal just how diverse a place it is.  The inept wizard Rincewind is not to be found in these pages, nor are Twoflower the Tourist and his Luggage.  Discworld is home to an incredible number of fascinating characters, and in this novel we are introduced to one of the most remarkable and unforgettable ones--the witch Granny Weatherwax.  We also get a closer look at Unseen University and the wizards who call it home.  The eighth son of an eighth son is always a wizard, as everyone knows.  Unfortunately, the novel's eighth son of an eighth son turns out to be a girl, which is a fact Granny Weatherwax points out immediately.  Granny is a traditional witch; she doesn't hold with living in towns and selling love potions and other sundry matters.  She teaches young Esk witchcraft, but it eventually becomes apparent that the child is a born wizard.  Getting the child to Ankh-Morpork and Unseen University is not easy, but the hardest part of the mission is getting her accepted as a female.  There's also a small matter of the terrible beings from Beyond trying to break through to this side.<br />I enjoyed this novel, but it didn't seem to have the magical aura of most Pratchett books.  Young Esk was too willful and erratic, and I never understood why she kept wandering away from Granny Weatherwax on the journey to Ankh-Morpork since Granny was trying to fulfill her dream of becoming a wizard.  I also thought the character of Simon, a stuttering but brilliant young wizard, should have been developed more fully; he formed an important part of the story, but I never knew him well enough to strongly like him or dislike him.  Esk's frustration and anger at being rejected as a girl are understandable, but some of her reactions seemed a little too childish to me.  Toward the end, I sometimes got the impression that I was reading a piece of juvenile fiction--there's nothing wrong with that, and Pratchett has written some excellent novels for a younger audience, but it left me feeling a little empty and let-down.  Even Granny Weatherwax, one of my favorite Discworld characters, seemed only a shadow of  the Granny I have come to know in later novels.  This novel also has some sexual innuendo material in the background, which is something I found a little disconcerting and atypical of Pratchett.  It does add to some of the humor, though, especially in the scenes featuring Granny and ArchChancellor Cutangle.  Weirdest of all was a direct reference to Steven Spielberg--when I read Pratchett, I am in his world, and I felt as if he kicked me out of his universe momentarily for no good reason.<br />The humor is the real strength of this novel.  Pratchett's ever-present comical metaphors are particularly strong in places, and he is able to exploit cliches in ways no other author can.  The descriptions of Granny having to get long running starts in order to get her broom off the ground and of the head wizards getting all excited about increasing their knowledge by increasing their ignorance of brand new concepts are especially hilarious.  Comedy saves this particular novel.  I would have liked to see much more character development; as it is, Esk and Simon are pretty forgettable characters, and the charm of Granny Weatherwax is really not realized here.  I did enjoy getting a closer view inside Unseen University, but the wizards in the book seemed shallow and sort of stereotypical.  I saw a lot, but I didn't learn a lot.  In the end, though, this is a Discworld novel, so it is definitely better than most anything else you can find on the shelves, but I think it is one of Pratchett's weakest efforts.ritten some excellent novels for a younger audience, but it left me feeling a little empty and let-down.  Even Granny Weatherwax, one of my favorite Discworld characters, seemed only a shadow of  the Granny I have come to know in later novels.  This novel also has some sexual innuendo material in the background, which is something I found a little disconcerting and atypical of Pratchett.  It does add to some of the humor, though, especially in the scenes featuring Granny and ArchChancellor Cutangle.  Weirdest of all was a direct reference to Steven Spielberg--when I read Pratchett, I am in his world, and I felt as if he kicked me out of his universe momentarily for no good reason.<br />The humor is the real strength of this novel.  Pratchett's ever-present comical metaphors are particularly strong in places, and he is able to exploit cliches in ways no other author can.  The descriptions of Granny having to get long running starts in order to get her broom off the ground and of the head wizards getting all excited about increasing their knowledge by increasing their ignorance of brand new concepts are especially hilarious.  Comedy saves this particular novel.  I would have liked to see much more character development; as it is, Esk and Simon are pretty forgettable characters, and the charm of Granny Weatherwax is really not realized here.  I did enjoy getting a closer view inside Unseen University, but the wizards in the book seemed shallow and sort of stereotypical.  I saw a lot, but I didn't learn a lot.  In the end, though, this is a Discworld novel, so it is definitely better than most anything else you can find on the shelves, but I think it is one of Pratchett's weakest efforts.	2002-08-20
1435960:US	53016962	ROK3LSI0NKSL2	0575063483	849810776	The Pratchett Portfolio (Discworld)	Books	5	65	65	N	N	For Discworld fanatics only	The Pratchett Portfolio is an impressive little book, but only serious Discworld fanatics will want to invest in acquiring it.  It is quite large in format and quite thin in content, consisting of pictures and small biographical vignettes of some of the Discworld's most prominent personalities.  Paul Kidby's illustrations are indeed lavish and impressive, consisting of black and white sketches alongside vibrantly colored portraits.  I personally envision some of the characters, particularly Rincewind and Magrat, quite differently, but it is certainly interesting to see how a professional illustrator and bonafide Discworld fan envisions the denizens of my favorite flat planet.  It must be said that Kidby ably captures the spirit of Pratchett's creations, and any favorite illustrator of Terry Pratchett's is a favorite illustrator of mine.  Pratchett's biographical sketches of characters are fun to read, but there is nothing found here that cannot be found in the novels themselves.  I would also note the fact that this portfolio was published in 1996, at which time only 18 Discworld novels had been published.  If you are not a Discworld fanatic, you will most likely be disappointed by this item.  If you are as fanatical as I am, though, the Pratchett Portfolio will take its place as an unusual, eye-catching, one-of-a-kind item in your collection.	2002-08-19
1437416:US	53016962	R226GSGNFTQ90P	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Brings the Discworld into sharp focus	The Light Fantastic is the second book in Terry Pratchett's brilliantly funny Discworld series, continuing the tale related in the first book The Colour of Magic.  The last we knew, Rincewind and Discworld's first tourist Twoflower had fallen off the rim of the world, which is an especially dangerous happenstance on a world that is totally flat and carried on the backs of four elephants who in turn stand atop the great cosmic turtle Great A'Tuin.  While Rincewind is Discworld's most incompetent wizard and all-around unlucky fellow, he manages to evade the clutches of Death (although he does bump into him fairly often) time and again (27 times by Twoflower's count at the midpoint of this novel).  Why this is so is, we discover, is because Rincewind carries one of the eight most powerful spells from the magical Octavo.  Reality keeps having to reshape itself in order to keep rescuing the wizard.  Although Rincewind, the eternally optimistic Twoflower, and the magical Luggage of sapient pearwood are once again on the disc, they face a number of obstacles in getting home to Ankh-Morpork.  They are fortunate enough to join forces with Disworld's greatest hero Cohen the Barbarian; Cohen is an old man now, but he doesn't let that stop him from rescuing maidens, stealing treasures, and doing other heroic things.  At this particular time, the Discworld itself is in danger, threatened with an imminent collision with a giant red star heading its way.  The wizards of Unseen University believe that all eight powerful spells from the Octavo must be read in order to save the Discworld, so the missing Rincewind must be found in order to release the necessary eighth spell locked inside his brain.  A series of adventures and misadventures ensue for our motley crew of characters, including a stopover at a vacated witch's house made of candy, a wild ride on a broomstick, a collision with a druid-steered cloud, and a trip to the home of Death himself before Rincewind manages to return home.  Whether he can actually make use of the eighth spell and somehow manage to avert the Discworld's total destruction by the onrushing red star is, as is typical for this inept failed wizard, questionable at best.<br />The Light Fantastic builds upon the story of The Colour of Magic and breathes more life into the unique Discworld of Terry Pratchett's imaginative construction.  More areas of the world are revealed to the reader, and we for the first time get a decent look at what goes on in the school of wizardry.  Not only do we meet Cohen the Barbarian, we are also introduced to the ape librarian of Unseen University, who will become a significant character in later novels.  You should certainly read the previous novel before this one because the two are closely connected in terms of plot, characterization, etc.  It will also help you to recognize just how much more vibrant and real Pratchett's Discworld seems by the end of The Light Fantastic.  The comedy quotient of both novels is about equal, but the storyline seems much stronger and flows much more naturally in this one.  Pratchett was honing his already sharp scythe of quick wit and nascent satire in these first two Discworld novels, building a compellingly unique little world and populating it with unforgettable characters.  This is high-brow comedy of the highest order, and we readers are privileged to be able to say we were there from the start with Rincewind, Twoflower, and the Luggage.ome.  Whether he can actually make use of the eighth spell and somehow manage to avert the Discworld's total destruction by the onrushing red star is, as is typical for this inept failed wizard, questionable at best.  <br />The Light Fantastic builds upon the story of The Colour of Magic and breathes more life into the unique Discworld of Terry Pratchett's imaginative construction.  More areas of the world are revealed to the reader, and we for the first time get a decent look at what goes on in the school of wizardry.  Not only do we meet Cohen the Barbarian, we are also introduced to the ape librarian of Unseen University, who will become a significant character in later novels.  You should certainly read the previous novel before this one because the two are closely connected in terms of plot, characterization, etc.  It will also help you to recognize just how much more vibrant and real Pratchett's Discworld seems by the end of The Light Fantastic.  The comedy quotient of both novels is about equal, but the storyline seems much stronger and flows much more naturally in this one.  Pratchett was honing his already sharp scythe of quick wit and nascent satire in these first two Discworld novels, building a compellingly unique little world and populating it with unforgettable characters.  This is high-brow comedy of the highest order, and we readers are privileged to be able to say we were there from the start with Rincewind, Twoflower, and the Luggage.	2002-08-18
1438053:US	53016962	R2CICLCZBGA0I8	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Behold the Discworld	In The Colour of Magic, Terry Pratchett introduces us to the Discworld, a flat planet held aloft by four great elephants, all of which ride on the back of the cosmic turtle called Great A'Tuin as he (or possibly she) purposely plods through the universe toward his (or her) unknown Destination.  Having read many of the Discworld novels, I was rather struck by the fact that so much of what was to come was incorporated into this original novel, not only in terms of the characters but also in terms of the unique geological, geographical, and meteorological characteristics of the most unique world in the multiverse, from the grandeur of the Rimfall \\"close to the edge\\" to the singular city of Ankh-Morpork to the previously mythical Counterweight Continent.  In terms of characterization, which is one of Pratchett's most gifted abilities, many of the individuals we encounter here are easily recognizable and described in the same exact terms in later novels.  The humor, which is really what makes the Discworld series so wildly popular, is also here in great abundance.  Pratchett can make something very funny with a mere word, deftly structuring sentences in a seemingly simple yet utterly brilliant way that few writers can match even on their best days.  This book isn't as funny as most of the Discworld books that followed, but it can still make you laugh out loud at any given moment.  One thing this book does lack, in comparison with its younger Discworld brethren, is Pratchett's brilliant and heavy use of satire.  It may be wrong of me to judge this novel in comparison with other Discworld novels, but I certainly think the absence of constantly biting satire explains why this book is only incredibly funny rather than downright hilarious.<br />In terms of characters, we meet many important denizens of the Discworld.  First and foremost among these is Rincewind, the most inept wizard ever to walk the halls of Unseen University.  He is not even very good at failing, which says a lot in itself, but he somehow keeps managing to elude Death, which is fortunate because his attempts to stay out of trouble virtually always backfire to land him in hot water.  Rincewind is a fairly taciturn individual, living his life for the sole purpose of not dying.  Thus, when he finds himself serving as a tour guide of sorts to Twoflower, Discworld's first tourist, a man who finds enjoyment in the most precarious situations for no other reason than his belief that no harm will come to a tourist, he is in for a hard time indeed.  Of course, he is helped as well as hindered by the Luggage of Twoflower.  The Luggage is made of sapient pearwood, which means it will follow its master anywhere (and I do mean anywhere), employing a multitude of little feet for its transportation and unhesitatingly attacking any one who gets in its way.  The novel basically relates four adventures of this unlikely trio of characters, taking us from Ankh-Morpork to the temple of Bel-Shamharoth, the hideous Sender of Eight, to the inverted mountain Wyrmberg where dragons exist (well, sort of anyway) and finally to the land of Krull right on the edge of the disc.  Along the way, we are introduced to such wonderful characters as the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, Hrun the Barbarian, and Tethis the water troll.<br />It is difficult to describe Pratchett's humor; it is simple yet complex, sarcastic yet meaningful, flippant yet philosophical, and often deviously subtle.  Certainly, there will be some who don't \\"get\\" Pratchett or who honestly do not find him amusing in the least--such poor souls are to be pitied.  Pratchett's popularity is ample proof of the fact that most people who pick up one of his books do find it highly amusing.  The Colour of Magic isn't Pratchett's best work, but it sets a beautiful table for the huge buffet of laughs and joy to come from the Discworld books that would follow it.a lot in itself, but he somehow keeps managing to elude Death, which is fortunate because his attempts to stay out of trouble virtually always backfire to land him in hot water.  Rincewind is a fairly taciturn individual, living his life for the sole purpose of not dying.  Thus, when he finds himself serving as a tour guide of sorts to Twoflower, Discworld's first tourist, a man who finds enjoyment in the most precarious situations for no other reason than his belief that no harm will come to a tourist, he is in for a hard time indeed.  Of course, he is helped as well as hindered by the Luggage of Twoflower.  The Luggage is made of sapient pearwood, which means it will follow its master anywhere (and I do mean anywhere), employing a multitude of little feet for its transportation and unhesitatingly attacking any one who gets in its way.  The novel basically relates four adventures of this unlikely trio of characters, taking us from Ankh-Morpork to the temple of Bel-Shamharoth, the hideous Sender of Eight, to the inverted mountain Wyrmberg where dragons exist (well, sort of anyway) and finally to the land of Krull right on the edge of the disc.  Along the way, we are introduced to such wonderful characters as the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, Hrun the Barbarian, and Tethis the water troll.  <br />It is difficult to describe Pratchett's humor; it is simple yet complex, sarcastic yet meaningful, flippant yet philosophical, and often deviously subtle.  Certainly, there will be some who don't \\"get\\" Pratchett or who honestly do not find him amusing in the least--such poor souls are to be pitied.  Pratchett's popularity is ample proof of the fact that most people who pick up one of his books do find it highly amusing.  The Colour of Magic isn't Pratchett's best work, but it sets a beautiful table for the huge buffet of laughs and joy to come from the Discworld books that would follow it.	2002-08-17
1441320:US	53016962	RCQNUBJ4YFJ2O	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	252	266	N	N	Easily the best horror novel ever written	Bram Stoker's Dracula is, hands down, the greatest horror novel ever written.  In addition, it is also an enduring classic of literature.  You may have seen every Dracula movie ever made, but you do not know the real Count Dracula until such time as you have read Stoker's book.  Of course, unless you have been living under a rock, you will know the general plot line, but I assure you there is a wealth of rich material buried throughout the text that is sure to excite, intrigue, and surprise you.  Perhaps the ending is a slight anticlimactic, yet I, having read this novel before and being quite familiar with the Count, read the final pages with bated breath, an anxious mind, and the sense of exhilaration that only the most talented of writers can induce.<br />The most striking characteristic of Stoker's masterpiece is its solid grounding in late 19th-century Victorianism.  This may prove frustrating to some readers.  It is far from uncommon for the men in the tale to weep and bemoan the dangers threatening the virtuous ladies Lucy and Mina; virtue and innocence of women are hailed rather religiously.  Mina, for her part, assumes the role then deemed proper for women, accepting and praising the men for their protection of her, worrying constantly about her husband rather than herself, shedding tears she must not let her husband see, etc.  Yet, it is most interesting to see Mina rise above the circle of a woman's proscribed duties; she in fact becomes a true partner in the effort against Dracula, expressing ideas and conclusions that the men, with all of their wisdom, could not come up with themselves.<br />Another thing I find interesting is the lack of a clear protagonist in Dracula.  Technically, I suppose, Jonathon Harker is the protagonist, but Mina, Dr. Van Helsing, Dr. Seward, and the Count himself basically operate on an equal plane with him.  It is Van Helsing who can be described as the anti-Dracula; he plans the moves by which he and his friends seek to thwart the Count's plans and destroy him; the second half of the novel can be compared to a chess match between two equally strong competitors.  Minor characters such as the lunatic Renfield are also drawn clearly in our mind's eye by Stoker's incredible gift of characterization.  While the format is unusual--the novel consisting fully of diary and journal entries by different characters--you cannot help but be drawn in closely to the group of heroic souls who pledge their very lives to one another as they take it upon themselves to combat a centuries-old evil.<br />One could expound upon a number of themes in this novel (and many literary critics have certainly done so), so I will just quickly mention a few.  Is this an erotic story?  Certainly, to some extent, but there is certainly nothing overtly sexual in these pages.  Is it really horrible?  One might wonder how much blood one would encounter in this product of the Victorian age, but there are indeed some rather shockingly gruesome descriptions of events--nothing to shock modern readers but probably quite surprising to Stoker's contemporaries.  There are also subtle overtones of religion in these pages.  Aside from the Christian objects that have the power to keep vampires at bay, the most striking scene in the novel is Dracula's perversion of the Lord's Supper in his own most nefarious deed.<br />I cannot recommend Stoker's masterpiece highly enough.  The impatient reader may encounter sections that move too slowly than he/she would like, but such lulls are always wiped away by sudden spurts of activity and drama.  Feminists will dislike the Victorian characterization of the women but can find unexpected pleasure in the strength and intellect of Mina.  Literary critics will surely find in these pages a deep ocean of issues ripe for analysis.  Of most importance, the common reader will find an absorbing storyline which may horrify him/her to some degree in places but which will certainly offer great rewards of enjoyment.  I think most individuals would be won over completely by the great humanity of these characters and the unexpected richness and complexity to be found in this story of a fiend they thought they already knew.oyment.  I think most individuals would be won over completely by the great humanity of these characters and the unexpected richness and complexity to be found in this story of a fiend they thought they already knew.	2002-08-14
1442713:US	53016962	R2NOGPKBUZ08MO	0807110612	11360332	Parties and Politics in North Carolina, 1836-1865	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An impressive study of NC antebellum politics	Marc W. Kruman examines politics in North Carolina during the antebellum and war-torn years of its history.  He is openly working under the influence of J. Mills Thornton's study of Alabama politics and Michael F. Holt's controversial work The Political Crisis of the 1850s.  Kruman credits Thornton and Holt with having shown the importance of viewing the sectional conflict of North and South in the context of the political culture of the 1850s present at both national and state levels.  He echoes their call to avoid studying antebellum politics through the &quot;prism&quot; of the War Between the States--such work has already lent confusion to and hampered understanding of the sectional conflict.  Kruman says that competitive party politics revolved around the question of which party best could preserve not slavery per se, but rather republicanism and equality for the South within the nation.  Much of his information is quantitative, but he deftly works it in to make a clear exposition of his arguments.<br />Kruman acknowledges the fact that North Carolina was atypical, even among states of the Upper South, in keeping a vibrant two-party system during the War for Southern Independence.  During the turbulent 1850s, both Whigs and Democrats struggled to retain their constituencies.  Internal improvements had by now become popular among voters, forcing the Democrats to concede to Whig calls for progressive reform, while Whigs, faced with the open break with northern members of their party, were compelled to support the Democratic call for strict interpretation of the constitution, which essentially made them proslavery in their rhetoric.  Thus, both parties worked to retain and secure a constituency by parading as the true defenders of the Southern way of life, endorsing republicanism, democracy, and slavery.<br />Because North Carolina faced the same issues as did her sister states in the sectional crisis and war experience, Kruman hopes to understand why exactly the two--party system broke down in the South by examining how and why two-party politics remained vibrant in North Carolina during the War.  At the very least, such a study emphasizes the complexity of the Southern experience, reinforcing the differences between the Upper and Lower South.  Partisan politics emerged soon after the state's two parties joined to endorse secession and entrance into the Confederacy.  Major sources of unhappiness included the increasing centralization of the Confederate government and the policies of conscription and confiscation that it unfurled, the governor's appointment policies, and the Union occupation of the North Carolina coast.  These issues were able to keep alive partisan division largely because North Carolina was spared any significant fighting within her borders until Sherman arrived in the closing days of the conflict.<br />Kruman's study basically ends at 1865.  Although I disagree with some of his conclusions about an eventual breakdown of two-party politics in the state in the later Reconstruction years, I heartily applaud his interpretation of North Carolina politics before and during the War Between the States. Kruman's intention is not to condemn or absolve the South from blame but rather to objectively show the complexities of southern antebellum politics. Southerners were far from unified in secessionist sentiment, even in 1861; unionism was particularly strong in the Upper South up until the first shots were fired at Fort Sumter. Only an understanding of how national, state, and local politics impinged on each other, working through the vehicle of the two-party system, can allow us to understand the basic nature of the political crisis of the 1850s.  Kruman's study is a praiseworthy attempt to forego a monolithic interpretation of Southern history and instead to study the complex internal issues that pervaded and essentially defined one Southern state's (North Carolina's) antebellum society.e two--party system broke down in the South by examining how and why two-party politics remained vibrant in North Carolina during the War.  At the very least, such a study emphasizes the complexity of the Southern experience, reinforcing the differences between the Upper and Lower South.  Partisan politics emerged soon after the state's two parties joined to endorse secession and entrance into the Confederacy.  Major sources of unhappiness included the increasing centralization of the Confederate government and the policies of conscription and confiscation that it unfurled, the governor's appointment policies, and the Union occupation of the North Carolina coast.  These issues were able to keep alive partisan division largely because North Carolina was spared any significant fighting within her borders until Sherman arrived in the closing days of the conflict.  <br />Kruman's study basically ends at 1865.  Although I disagree with some of his conclusions about an eventual breakdown of two-party politics in the state in the later Reconstruction years, I heartily applaud his interpretation of North Carolina politics before and during the War Between the States. Kruman's intention is not to condemn or absolve the South from blame but rather to objectively show the complexities of southern antebellum politics. Southerners were far from unified in secessionist sentiment, even in 1861; unionism was particularly strong in the Upper South up until the first shots were fired at Fort Sumter. Only an understanding of how national, state, and local politics impinged on each other, working through the vehicle of the two-party system, can allow us to understand the basic nature of the political crisis of the 1850s.  Kruman's study is a praiseworthy attempt to forego a monolithic interpretation of Southern history and instead to study the complex internal issues that pervaded and essentially defined one Southern state's (North Carolina's) antebellum society.	2002-08-13
1445147:US	53016962	R2WLGGXAA8RICQ	051726188X	449881951	Complete Science Fiction Treasury of H. G. Wells	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Wells' seven most famous SF novels in one volume	While this is by no means a complete collection of Wells' science fiction, it does consist of his most famous seven novels: The Time Machine, The Island of Dr. Moreau, The Invisible Man, The War of the Worlds, The First Men in the Moon, The Food of the Gods, and In the Days of the Comet.  Bonus features include a short preface written by the author and several original illustrations from each book's initial publication.  The typeface is a little unusual in that the text is presented in two columns per page, but this format does hark back to the old style of book and magazine publication.  The novels are arranged in chronological order, but Wells suggests in his preface that those not yet familiar with any of his work may be better served by first reading The Invisible Man or War of the Worlds.  While I have reviewed the novels included here individually, I thought it important to at least make clear exactly what this collection consists of.  If you can find this book it is an excellent buy, particularly so for those just discovering H.G. Wells.	2002-08-11
1446479:US	53016962	R3PSU6LNGY8TFG	0404001955	890311351	Ku Klux Klan: Its Origin, Growth, and Disbandment	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The first inside story of the Reconstruction Klan	This small monograph is an early &quot;inside&quot; view of the Ku Klux Klan in Tennessee, where it was first born, written some twenty years after the events of Reconstruction, augmented by an introductory essay written in 1905 by noted historian Walter L. Fleming.  Ostensibly written by D. L. Wilson in collaboration with Captain J.C. Lester, one of the six founders of the Klan, it is predictably a decidedly pro-Klan document.  Written in 1884, it serves as the first published &quot;inside&quot; story of the Klan.  The authors refrain from the use of names, and there is no documentation.  The book is essentially a story of the Klan, with which Lester attempts to gain popular acceptance for his description of events.  The attempt at moderation serves to trivialize the Klan's deeds and to cast doubt on the degree of central organization of the Klan movement.  The Klan is described as being founded for amusement, never shaped by political motivations or thirsts for violence.  The society only took on foreboding characteristics as dictated by social forces of the time.  The Klan sought to enforce law and order, but members soon found themselves compelled to combat violence with violence in kind, thus rendering impotent the more admirable aspirations of Klan leadership.  Illustrative of the inherent dangers of counter-violence was the admission of reckless terrorism being inflicted by rebellious Klansmen following the disbanding of the true Klan in 1869.  In closing, Lester and Wilson ask men to judge the Klan's actions on the basis of the conditions of Southern life, but they clearly seek to glorify the Klan for the good it accomplished, namely a stabilization of social order. In essence, the book is an apologist document, but it does provide for an illuminating, fairly contemporary look inside the Reconstruction Klan by men closely connected to the movement.  As such, it is of great historical significance.	2002-08-09
1446667:US	53016962	R3UNCPSAYJCX6W	0691018545	888404112	On War, Indexed Edition	Books	5	13	16	N	N	When it comes to war, Clausewitz wrote the book	Clausewitz treats war as a natural, social organism, which can best be understood by practical experience.  In reaction to the attempts by Jomini and other strategists to rationalize the theory and practice of war into discernible, scientific laws, Clausewitz emphasizes the capriciousness of warfare.  As in all human endeavors, chance is a random variable in the conduct of war.  Implicit in Clausewitzian thought is a distinction between strategy and tactics.  While certain principles are useful for tactical calculations, Clausewitz asserts that no &quot;laws&quot; for strategy exist; experience, though, can prove of great use to the military commander.  Another Clausewitzian innovation is the idea that defense is a stronger form of war than offense.  In defensive warfare, a greater degree of the state's internal resources (including her citizen-soldiers) are brought to bear on the military effort.  Clearly, Clausewitz warns that offensive advantage, once it has lost its initial momentum or has seen its concentration of force weakened or divided, can quickly be transmuted into a defensive orientation.  Thus, a good defense is necessary for good offense (even if only during momentary pauses).<br />The main contribution of Clausewitz is represented by his maxim that &quot;war is merely the continuation of policy by other means.&quot;  In other words, war is basically an extension of politics.  The initial motive for warfare is encapsulated by a political objective; war is a means to a political end.  Clausewitz argues that policy permeates and essentially determines the character and extent of all military operations; the authority of the military commander is circumscribed by the political aims of the state.  Thus, Clausewitz essentially maintains that the public sector (the state) must exercise authority over military operations.  Although he has no use for military formulae, Clausewitz does offer one postulate: when the costs of the military effort exceed (in relative terms) the positive good of the political objective, then the state should seek a peaceful settlement.  The good of the state depends on knowing when to stop fighting as well as when to start.<br />The most important message conveyed by Clausewitz is that war is not an isolated phenomenon.  Any considerations for waging war (offensive or defensive) must be based on the political situation at home, in the adversarial state, and in the world community of potential allies and enemies.  Military strength in and of itself is not an adequate gauge for success.  A defensive war can be a victorious effort, should the assailant overextend himself.  Beyond this, the desire to maintain the balance of power is a strong stimulus for foreign involvement.  All in all, Clausewitz portrays war as a human endeavor, involving chance (or &quot;friction&quot;) as well as skill.  War is not a game involving the maneuverability of human instruments; victory can only be secured on the battlefield.  On War is a realistic, pragmatic approach to warfare in all its facets--skill and luck, offense and defense, battle and statecraft, etc.  The subservience of the armed forces to political control remains a strong source of friction in today's states--this is only one aspect of the timelessness of Clausewitz's work.<br />Certainly, On War is a long, difficult read.  For those, both citizens and soldiers, who wish to truly understand warfare, however, it is required reading which will ultimately richly reward the diligent reader with much insight and knowledge.ve terms) the positive good of the political objective, then the state should seek a peaceful settlement.  The good of the state depends on knowing when to stop fighting as well as when to start.<br />The most important message conveyed by Clausewitz is that war is not an isolated phenomenon.  Any considerations for waging war (offensive or defensive) must be based on the political situation at home, in the adversarial state, and in the world community of potential allies and enemies.  Military strength in and of itself is not an adequate gauge for success.  A defensive war can be a victorious effort, should the assailant overextend himself.  Beyond this, the desire to maintain the balance of power is a strong stimulus for foreign involvement.  All in all, Clausewitz portrays war as a human endeavor, involving chance (or &quot;friction&quot;) as well as skill.  War is not a game involving the maneuverability of human instruments; victory can only be secured on the battlefield.  On War is a realistic, pragmatic approach to warfare in all its facets--skill and luck, offense and defense, battle and statecraft, etc.  The subservience of the armed forces to political control remains a strong source of friction in today's states--this is only one aspect of the timelessness of Clausewitz's work.<br />Certainly, On War is a long, difficult read.  For those, both citizens and soldiers, who wish to truly understand warfare, however, it is required reading which will ultimately richly reward the diligent reader with much insight and knowledge.	2002-08-09
1447108:US	53016962	R3PZUJTKP7S8	0140447520	604725626	The Prince (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	More often cited than read	No one can doubt the lasting significance of The Prince, for it is frequently cited in discussions of modern political theory.  The work has been often criticized as malevolent, while its original form has been examined less than closely.  Such being the case, Machiavelli's intentions are easily misread.  His goal was in fact to offer a practical, realistic guide to governing; it is a sad irony that these pragmatic goals have become something philosophically ethereal in the hands of many critics.<br />The Prince draws from the past and is at the same time applicable to the future.  The author was a statesman of moderate capacity as well as member of the social body, a link between the ruler and the ruled.  He was driven by a realism that forsook Platonic ideals of justice and virtue, in favor of efficiency, military strength, and power.  For Machiavelli, the ends always justified the means.  The state's perpetuity was the sole goal to be sought by the ruler.  While it is true that Machiavelli voiced a disdain for men, he did not call for their enslavement or complete subordination to the ruler; in fact, he felt that what was best for the state was best for the people.<br />One must bear in mind the time in which Machiavelli wrote, which was a time of great upheaval in the Italian states.  This lack of stability certainly contributed to the author's commitment to strong, lasting government.  Nowhere does he condemn democracy nor worship autocracy; in fact, he clearly implies that the particular conditions of any polity best determine the most fitting type of government.  He warns the ruler of dangers both from within and without, and recommends in all matters strength of position.  When he counsels that virtues, when excessive, can weaken the state, he does not endorse tyranny.<br />One finds simplicity alongside complexity in this book.  Just as he encourages efficiency in the ruler, Machiavelli writes directly, never indulging in philosophical digressions.  He defines the state and how it comes to be, as well as the manners by which a prince accedes to power.  He then shifts to the practice of warfare, the most important activity of a state, complemented with advice on maintaining internal stability.  Finally, he speaks of Italy's present troubles, making clear that it is his ambition in writing this work to return stability to his homeland and protect its future from chaotic affairs.<br />The Prince is a pioneering work of political science.  It is distinguished by Machiavelli's employment of history as a source of applicable knowledge.  Machiavelli had no idealistic goals in mind when he wrote The Prince.  He was successful in that, although controversial and often misinterpreted, his guide is still a source for knowledge as well as action.efines the state and how it comes to be, as well as the manners by which a prince accedes to power.  He then shifts to the practice of warfare, the most important activity of a state, complemented with advice on maintaining internal stability.  Finally, he speaks of Italy's present troubles, making clear that it is his ambition in writing this work to return stability to his homeland and protect its future from chaotic affairs.  <br />The Prince is a pioneering work of political science.  It is distinguished by Machiavelli's employment of history as a source of applicable knowledge.  Machiavelli had no idealistic goals in mind when he wrote The Prince.  He was successful in that, although controversial and often misinterpreted, his guide is still a source for knowledge as well as action.	2002-08-09
1447211:US	53016962	R149ADAX6LXHK4	0674817362	532490719	The Soldier and the State: The Theory and Politics of Civil-Military Relations (Belknap Press S)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	The best book ever written on civil-military relations	At the time of its original publication in 1957, Samuel Huntington's The Soldier and the State reflected a new age in American history--the Cold War era.  Huntington, a young Harvard professor of government, focused on policy problems concerning civilian direction of the military under the terms of the Cold War.  Basically, he contended that traditional American liberalism was outdated and in fact had begun to pose a national security danger.  Until this era, the absence of an overt military threat to American security allowed for a policy of civilian control of the military compatible with liberal democratic values.  Traditionally, liberal solutions to domestic problems had likewise been applied to military problems, frequently resulting in failure.<br />Huntington offered a theoretical framework for modern civil-military relations.  He insisted that liberalism was fundamentally opposed to the proper military ethic; the application of subjective civilian control over the military actually aimed at weakening military professionalism, which was viewed as a threat to democracy, liberalism, and American values.  The Cold War, though, required America to keep a large national army during peace time; the army could not return to its traditionally subordinate role.  There was perpetual tension between the demands of national security and the values of American liberalism: either American security must be compromised or the influence of liberalism weakened.  Only a conservative environment allowed for equilibrium between political influence and the military professionalism that ensured national security.  This balance could only be achieved, Huntington argued, by objective civilian control of the military.  By maintaining independent spheres of power, with no fusion of civil and military control, national security goals could be maximized with a minimum sacrifice of social values.  Objective civilian control allowed for the proper growth of military professionalism while keeping the military a subordinate tool of state policy.  The fulcrum of civil-military relations was the relation of the officer corps to the state.<br />Huntington was successful in presenting the military as inherently conservative and unwarlike.  The military prepared for war but never sought such engagement.  Huntington encapsulated the premise of the military mindset as conservative realism.  This mindset \\"holds that war is the instrument of politics, that the military are the servants of the statesman, and that civilian control is essential to military professionalism.\\"  This military ethic contrasted with the stereotype of the military as dangerously warlike.  A weakness of the book is Huntington's description of military trends between the Civil War and the Great War.  Huntington argued that the officer corps remained isolated during this period, allowing it to develop a professionalism free of civilian interference.  This isolation theory has been largely disproved by pointing to the military's involvement in putting down labor strikes, relations between officers and the business community, etc.  This defect should not detract from the importance of this book as a virgin exploration into a comprehensive history of the American military tradition.  With its conservative thesis, it remains in my mind the seminal work on civil-military relations.eeping the military a subordinate tool of state policy.  The fulcrum of civil-military relations was the relation of the officer corps to the state.<br />Huntington was successful in presenting the military as inherently conservative and unwarlike.  The military prepared for war but never sought such engagement.  Huntington encapsulated the premise of the military mindset as conservative realism.  This mindset \\"holds that war is the instrument of politics, that the military are the servants of the statesman, and that civilian control is essential to military professionalism.\\"  This military ethic contrasted with the stereotype of the military as dangerously warlike.  A weakness of the book is Huntington's description of military trends between the Civil War and the Great War.  Huntington argued that the officer corps remained isolated during this period, allowing it to develop a professionalism free of civilian interference.  This isolation theory has been largely disproved by pointing to the military's involvement in putting down labor strikes, relations between officers and the business community, etc.  This defect should not detract from the importance of this book as a virgin exploration into a comprehensive history of the American military tradition.  With its conservative thesis, it remains in my mind the seminal work on civil-military relations.	2002-08-09
1447916:US	53016962	RLLVQJI8WSGB8	0781249104	408539793	Invisible Empire; The Story Of The Ku Klux Klan, 1866-1871 (History - United States)	Books	3	17	21	N	N	At one time the standard account of the Reconstruction Klan	Stanley F. Horn's Invisible Empire, written in 1939, evokes a significant degree of pro-Klan bias, but in general it still provides a decent overview of the original Reconstruction-era Klan's origin, growth, and demise throughout the Southern states.  The author discusses the various states encompassing the realm of the Invisible Empire and relates relevant events which took place in each one.  Horn openly characterized his book as the first complete story of the Ku Klux Klan, told in a narrative style for effect.  Despite his pro-Klan position, this work served for decades as the standard account of the history of the original Ku Klux Klan.  Describing the organizational motivation of the Klan as promotive of amusement and adventure, Horn defends its evolution into a band of protective regulators as an admirable move toward achieving law and order.  The movement expanded throughout the South not for reasons of political strategy, he argues, but as a measured response to the existence and activities of the Union League.  The Klan, in his judgment, assumed the role of law-enforcerment in its members' own minds, with no contingent tendencies toward offensive violence.  In concluding pages, he considers the Congressional Klan investigation in 1871 and the resulting collapse of the Klan.  All in all, Horn gives an informative overview of the Klan.  Though biased, the book is not an outright apology for the Klan, though--Horn seems to recognize a degree of political motivation behind Klan actions, but he would be sure to insist that any such goals were strictly defensive in nature.  A glaring weakness in the account is the lack of documentation. While insisting his story was historically accurate and providing a list of references, Horn refrained from the use of footnotes in order &quot;to avoid interruption to the flow of the narrative.&quot;<br />Horn's Invisible Empire remained an important and lasting work through several decades of shifting viewpoints.  While it has largely been relegated to the ash heap of history due primarily to its pro-Klan biased nature, it still affords the reader an illuminating window through which one can gain insight into the thinking of the past and observe the nature of shifting ideologies over time.as largely been relegated to the ash heap of history due primarily to its pro-Klan biased nature, it still affords the reader an illuminating window through which one can gain insight into the thinking of the past and observe the nature of shifting ideologies over time.	2002-08-08
1451932:US	53016962	RZ6LWWQHTEBD	0061002828	239033838	The Hellbound Heart	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Explore the depravity of the human heart	This fast-paced, action-packed novella served as the basis for Clive Barker's extreme horror movie masterpiece Hellraiser, but it is well worth reading on its own merits.  The human heart and its vulnerability to perverse pleasures of a sensuous nature is a compelling theme at the heart of Barker's writing.  Those familiar with the movie will find that this original story matches up fairly closely with what they have seen, but there are some important differences.  For one, a little more information about the infamous puzzle box is revealed.  The characters are fleshed out a little better, yet Julia remains a cold person whose motives are not completely understandable.  The Cenobites are actually featured much less here than in the movie, and the physical descriptions of them are far less developed--Pinhead himself reportedly speaks with a girlish voice in the novella.  The blood and gore are certainly here, but their full magnitude is determined by the imagination of the reader.  Interestingly, Kirsty's relationship with Rory (who was called Larry in the movie) is ambiguous at best.  While one assumes Rory is her father, Kirsty always refers to him by name, and her relationship with him, if he is her father, is not a normal one for she seems to relate to him as some sort of potential lover.<br />The depth of Barker's vision is much better developed in print than on the movie screen, and that is what makes this novella a must-read for fans of extreme horror.  The dark side of the human soul is a source tapped deeply by Barker's imagination, and he is unafraid of revealing the depravity of any given individual.  As such, his writing betrays a complexity and ingenious subtlety which critics of horror will never identify or understand.  Surprisingly, there is really not a great deal of perverse sexuality in this particular work, so readers who tend to shy away from his Books of Blood may actually find The Hellhound Heart to be the optimal doorway by which to enter the haunted, terrifyingly alive world of this modern master of horror.e haunted, terrifyingly alive world of this modern master of horror.	2002-08-05
1452535:US	53016962	R1ODBWBC51DXG6	0926524259	193870826	The Andreasson Affair: The Documented Investigation of a Woman's Abduction Aboard a Ufo	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The case study of a baffling, uniquely important abduction	Although some of the facets of Betty Andreasson's abduction experience fit neatly into the common aspects  of the phenomenon as it has been described in more recent studies, there still remain several enigmatic, uncommon aspects to her tale that set it apart.  At the time of publication (1979) Budd Hopkins and Whitely Strieber had yet to publish their groundbreaking books, and the abduction experience was little known and even less accepted by society as a whole.  The Andreasson Affair basically links the earlier account of Betty and Barney Hill with the numerous abduction stories introduced to the public in the years since 1979.  The story of an apparent implant removed from Betty's sinuses in her experience seems pretty mundane to us now, but this was an exciting discovery for Fowler and his associates in the late 1970s.  It is a little difficult to review this book as an entity in itself because of the series of related books Fowler would publish later, but I want to review the book on its own terms.<br />Basically, the whole book centers around a single abduction event.  On a winter's night in 1967, a number of small, grey, large-headed beings entered the Andreasson home through the solid kitchen door, put all of the family members besides Betty and her oldest daughter Becky in suspended animation, and took Betty alone into their ship.  Becky observed some of the events but was eventually &quot;frozen&quot; by the visitors during the ordeal.  Betty describes the visitors--how they seemed to glide when they moved, how they seemed to communicate telepathically, etc.-- as well as the ship as it appeared from both outside and within.  She then relates the extraordinary experiences she had on board the ship, illustrating much of what she saw and described in a series of excellent drawings she did based on her hypnotically retrieved memories..  Besides getting a physical examination (including the apparent retrieval of an implant and a reproduction-based test), she describes many unique events.  She was put into a chair, covered with a human-shaped molding, and given oxygen to breathe while her chamber was filled with some type of liquid.  She describes traveling through tunnels into strange vistas.  After traveling through a red atmosphere and then a green atmosphere, she experienced an unparalleled event, wherein a phoenix-like giant bird literally burned itself up only to reappear as a giant worm from the ashes, at which point a presence told her that she had been chosen.  This presence she finally understood to be God, and all of her fear turned to elation.  Betty is a deeply religious person, and her Christianity adds a distinct quality to her experiences--she interprets the events in religious terms, and it is problematic to determine if her subconscious is skewing her experience or if she is interpreting it correctly.  The concept of religion tied so closely to an abduction experience makes some people very uncomfortable and makes the Andreasson Affair of great interest and importance in the field of alien abduction studies.  This book leaves many questions unanswered, as well, and it certainly provides no definitive answers about the subject at hand.  Whatever the merits of the case, though, it is one of the most thoroughly researched cases in the literature, and Raymond Fowler is a long-time, well-respected member of the UFO research community.  Anyone interested in the alien abduction phenomenon has to look at this case, and the best way of doing so is in reading this incredible book.describes many unique events.  She was put into a chair, covered with a human-shaped molding, and given oxygen to breathe while her chamber was filled with some type of liquid.  She describes traveling through tunnels into strange vistas.  After traveling through a red atmosphere and then a green atmosphere, she experienced an unparalleled event, wherein a phoenix-like giant bird literally burned itself up only to reappear as a giant worm from the ashes, at which point a presence told her that she had been chosen.  This presence she finally understood to be God, and all of her fear turned to elation.  Betty is a deeply religious person, and her Christianity adds a distinct quality to her experiences--she interprets the events in religious terms, and it is problematic to determine if her subconscious is skewing her experience or if she is interpreting it correctly.  The concept of religion tied so closely to an abduction experience makes some people very uncomfortable and makes the Andreasson Affair of great interest and importance in the field of alien abduction studies.  This book leaves many questions unanswered, as well, and it certainly provides no definitive answers about the subject at hand.  Whatever the merits of the case, though, it is one of the most thoroughly researched cases in the literature, and Raymond Fowler is a long-time, well-respected member of the UFO research community.  Anyone interested in the alien abduction phenomenon has to look at this case, and the best way of doing so is in reading this incredible book.	2002-08-04
1455529:US	53016962	R2O7PX9M8O9LEN	039450867X	891490063	Death sty : a pig's tale : a novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Original, brilliant sociopolitical satire	Death Sty: A Pig's Tale is an amazing, original, thought-provoking piece of fiction.  I feel compelled to first say what this book is not: it is not an expose of the shocking cruelty taking place in slaughterhouses, nor is it a vehicle in which the author tries to convince you to become a vegetarian.  This is basically a pig's story of his life and its grand purpose.  This is no ordinary pig, however; he is a philosopher, political theorist, and sociologist blessed with amazing insight.  Our unnamed narrator describes his current life inside a small enclosure at a slaughterhouse, referring back to his days of youth and continually looking forward to the day when his ultimate goal will be achieved.  That ultimate goal is nothing less than his slaughter; he glories in the thought of his posthumous legacy as food for humankind.  He devotes himself to forming the best hocks, ham, blood sausage, etc.  He explains the course of his life, even providing a statistical chart showing his estimates of how much he weighed at each step of weaning, fasting, braking, etc.  He knows full well what will happen to him when he reaches the butcher's domain, almost delighting in the communication of each step of the final process.  Although he is alone throughout the course of his tale, he describes pig society, quotes famed pig thinkers, and laments those pigs who foolishly wish to make a mockery of their lives by resisting their glorious destinies.  While he views the butcher as a god of sorts, he does have much to say about swineherds.  He can barely tolerate these base men who see fit to come tramping nastily into his home any time they want and insist on putting his water bucket in the middle of his enclosure, where it naturally restricts his predilection for diagonal movement, rather than beside his trough.  It is these same swineherds who have perpetuated so many lies about pigkind, he declares, while they are really the nasty beings who themselves, rather than hogs, live in sty-like squalor.<br />He expresses thoughts of rebelling against the swineherd, often in subtle ways, but he has no use for mass porcine action against man.  This pig is basically a political thinker whose complex views often ring with religious overtones--after all, paradise for the pig is found at the hands of the butcher.  He disdains those pigs too shallow to understand their true purpose.  Most interestingly, he decries the thought of being taken out of his enclosure and being allowed outside--he would resist this by all means at his disposal, even though he has fond memories of a short time in the meadows as a young piglet.  The thought of his brethren escaping the slaughterhouse is an affront to his sensibilities. Such an act betrays the very heritage of pigkind.<br />Clearly, this is political and social satire at a high level.  One reading is not sufficient to truly understand everything the author is trying to communicate.  The religious connotations immersed in the story are quite subtle and in no way offensive, but it is the pig's thoughts on politics and pig society that make this book so thought-provoking.  I would say this is essentially a work of natural philosophy clothed in the guise of brilliant satire.  Its originality, subtlety, and universality afford this short novel an honored position in my library of literary treasures.like squalor.  <br />He expresses thoughts of rebelling against the swineherd, often in subtle ways, but he has no use for mass porcine action against man.  This pig is basically a political thinker whose complex views often ring with religious overtones--after all, paradise for the pig is found at the hands of the butcher.  He disdains those pigs too shallow to understand their true purpose.  Most interestingly, he decries the thought of being taken out of his enclosure and being allowed outside--he would resist this by all means at his disposal, even though he has fond memories of a short time in the meadows as a young piglet.  The thought of his brethren escaping the slaughterhouse is an affront to his sensibilities. Such an act betrays the very heritage of pigkind.  <br />Clearly, this is political and social satire at a high level.  One reading is not sufficient to truly understand everything the author is trying to communicate.  The religious connotations immersed in the story are quite subtle and in no way offensive, but it is the pig's thoughts on politics and pig society that make this book so thought-provoking.  I would say this is essentially a work of natural philosophy clothed in the guise of brilliant satire.  Its originality, subtlety, and universality afford this short novel an honored position in my library of literary treasures.	2002-08-01
1456704:US	53016962	R1L9MY2N1A7FLA	0553212478	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	5	36	43	N	N	A complex, poignant examination of human nature	Those who know Frankenstein only from movies and television may well be surprised to read the original book by Mary Shelley.  Indeed, one may well look back to the cover to see if the book is in fact Frankenstein because the first pages consist of messages from an R. Walton to his sister concerning his expedition to the northern polar regions.  Victor Frankenstein appears as a wretched creature stranded on an ice floe beside the ship.  After he is rescued and recovers somewhat, he tells his incredible story to Walton, who in turn preserves the story in writing.  Frankenstein reminisces about his happy childhood, particularly the close relationship between himself and his &quot;cousin&quot; Elizabeth, and then explains how his interest in discredited natural philosophy led him to create a living man of his own design.  The creature is a hideous, misshapen, giant of a man who so disgusted Frankenstein upon his awakening that he fled his laboratory and residence.  The creation process, it should be noted, in no way involved an elaborate machine powered by lightning such as is portrayed in the movies; in fact, beyond the fact that chemicals are involved, we are told nothing of the process.  For two years, Frankenstein goes about life with a clinging sense of guilt and nervousness, hoping the creature has perished.  When his little brother is murdered, though, he returns home and soon discovers that it was the monster who committed the deed.  In an isolated mountainous area, the monster appears before him and explains his actions.  Although the creature does nothing more than grunt in the movies, the original Frankenstein was possessed of great eloquence and intelligence, and he tells a moving story about his attempts to make a connection with a society that is revolted at the sight of him.  He describes living in a small hovel at the back of a small house for many months, watching the interaction of the family inside, learning how to speak their language and eventually even learning how to read.  When he eventually tries to interact with the family, he is assaulted and runs away, and it is at this point that his virtuous and peaceful nature begins to become inflamed into a torrent of hatred for mankind. When he rescues a girl from drowning, he is rewarded with a bullet in his shoulder. Each time he performs a good deed, mankind runs from him in disgust or attempts to harm him.  Living in total isolation and loneliness, his one purpose in life eventually becomes tormenting his creator, and many terrible misfortunes ensue for Frankenstein, who himself eventually becomes dedicated to the sole purpose of destroying his tormentor.<br />Both Frankenstein and his monster are tragic figures.  The complete alienation of the creature makes him a very sympathetic character in many respects, and he does perform many kind deeds for humans early on.  Frankenstein is an utterly pitiable character utterly destroyed by his mad decision to create the monster; he burdens his soul with responsibility for every crime the monster commits, and his inability to tell anyone his secret for so long destroys him in body, mind, and soul; everyone and everything he cares for is taken from him by his horrible creation.  His tendency to bemoan his fate at every turn of the narrative can get rather tiresome, but one cannot question the depth of his turmoil.  Both creator and created seem to be mirror images of each other in important ways, their fates clearly tied to one another, each soul deserving both blame and pity.  There is much about human nature, both good and bad, revealed in the monster's life as well as Frankenstein's; the novel is a far cry from horror for the sake of horror.  This is actually a very complex, compelling story full of human pathos; it is unfortunate that modern media have turned Frankenstein's creature into a simple, heartless, mentally deficient monster for the sake of scares and laughs.even learning how to read.  When he eventually tries to interact with the family, he is assaulted and runs away, and it is at this point that his virtuous and peaceful nature begins to become inflamed into a torrent of hatred for mankind. When he rescues a girl from drowning, he is rewarded with a bullet in his shoulder. Each time he performs a good deed, mankind runs from him in disgust or attempts to harm him.  Living in total isolation and loneliness, his one purpose in life eventually becomes tormenting his creator, and many terrible misfortunes ensue for Frankenstein, who himself eventually becomes dedicated to the sole purpose of destroying his tormentor.  <br />Both Frankenstein and his monster are tragic figures.  The complete alienation of the creature makes him a very sympathetic character in many respects, and he does perform many kind deeds for humans early on.  Frankenstein is an utterly pitiable character utterly destroyed by his mad decision to create the monster; he burdens his soul with responsibility for every crime the monster commits, and his inability to tell anyone his secret for so long destroys him in body, mind, and soul; everyone and everything he cares for is taken from him by his horrible creation.  His tendency to bemoan his fate at every turn of the narrative can get rather tiresome, but one cannot question the depth of his turmoil.  Both creator and created seem to be mirror images of each other in important ways, their fates clearly tied to one another, each soul deserving both blame and pity.  There is much about human nature, both good and bad, revealed in the monster's life as well as Frankenstein's; the novel is a far cry from horror for the sake of horror.  This is actually a very complex, compelling story full of human pathos; it is unfortunate that modern media have turned Frankenstein's creature into a simple, heartless, mentally deficient monster for the sake of scares and laughs.	2002-07-31
1461163:US	53016962	R3CCKT36HQ4X49	0380758903	944362871	Lost Realms, The (Earth Chronicles)	Books	5	97	99	N	N	Takes the New out of New World	The Lost Realms is one of the most speculative and interesting books in Sitchin's Earth Chronicles series.  The ruins and structures of Egypt and the Near East have been wondered at and studied for centuries, and there is a veritable wealth of information from Near Eastern papyri, stelae, monuments, and similar artifacts.  The ruins of Mesoamerica have largely been rediscovered only in the past couple of hundred years; indeed, unknown wonders surely remain hidden by South America's dense jungles.  The immensely important records and artifacts of New World societies such as the Mayan, Inca, and Aztec civilizations were for the most part lost and destroyed at the hands of greedy Spanish conquistadors, and further site degradation has resulted from the pilfering of ancient stones by recent natives of the area for use in the construction of their own buildings.  Thus, the earliest history of the lower Americas remains frustratingly impossible to understand.  We are left with giant edifices with significant similarities to Near Eastern constructions in size, orientation, and purpose, many of them seemingly containing very advanced structures built for unknown purposes.  Even the age of the artifacts is hotly debated, with many scientists refusing to believe scientific findings point back to as early as 2000 B.C.<br />Sitchin's arguments fit very nicely with the history of Sumeria, Egypt, and the Near East that he laid out in his earlier books.  Basically, he argues that the Americas were exploited by the gods for the production of gold and other metals such as tin, which the Andean mountains in particular hold in abundance.  Metals were refined here and shipped back to the Near Eastern lands long before Columbus ever sailed the ocean blue.  Sitchin believes that the Olmecs, of which very little is known besides what has been gleaned from the artifacts they left behind, particularly in the form of large stone blocks representing men of obvious African descent, did indeed come from Africa very early on--in fact, it was the Egyptian god Thoth who brought his followers here when he was displaced by Marduk.  While the Olmecs mysteriously disappeared, other societies were formed by white gods and giants from across the sea.  The traditions of the diverse Indian groups all shared a common mythology, including the story of a Great Flood; they also possessed amazing arts, technologies, and sciences (particularly astronomy) very similar to those of Sumeria and Egypt.  The inadequacy of artifacts in the Americas necessarily hinder any scientist studying their earliest histories, but Sitchin constructs a remarkably compelling timeline in which the story of Mesoamerica fits very neatly into the history he has gleaned of the Annunaki and their relationships with mankind in its earliest days.<br />Even if Sitchin were dead wrong on everything he suggests, this book would still be worth reading just for the information about the amazing ancient cities and monuments built in the lower Americas that are only now emerging from their jungle tombs.  The Olmecs, Toltecs, Mayans, Incas, and Aztecs are more mysterious than the Near Eastern cultures, and the suggestion that men traveled from the Old World and Africa centuries before Columbus is as compelling as it is fascinating.  The illustrations in this book are sometimes rather grainy and hard to examine closely, but the images they convey, such as that of the giant stone heads left by the Olmecs, do much to enhance Sitchin's theories.  This is thought-provoking, educational, stimulating material.d come from Africa very early on--in fact, it was the Egyptian god Thoth who brought his followers here when he was displaced by Marduk.  While the Olmecs mysteriously disappeared, other societies were formed by white gods and giants from across the sea.  The traditions of the diverse Indian groups all shared a common mythology, including the story of a Great Flood; they also possessed amazing arts, technologies, and sciences (particularly astronomy) very similar to those of Sumeria and Egypt.  The inadequacy of artifacts in the Americas necessarily hinder any scientist studying their earliest histories, but Sitchin constructs a remarkably compelling timeline in which the story of Mesoamerica fits very neatly into the history he has gleaned of the Annunaki and their relationships with mankind in its earliest days.<br />Even if Sitchin were dead wrong on everything he suggests, this book would still be worth reading just for the information about the amazing ancient cities and monuments built in the lower Americas that are only now emerging from their jungle tombs.  The Olmecs, Toltecs, Mayans, Incas, and Aztecs are more mysterious than the Near Eastern cultures, and the suggestion that men traveled from the Old World and Africa centuries before Columbus is as compelling as it is fascinating.  The illustrations in this book are sometimes rather grainy and hard to examine closely, but the images they convey, such as that of the giant stone heads left by the Olmecs, do much to enhance Sitchin's theories.  This is thought-provoking, educational, stimulating material.	2002-07-27
1462284:US	53016962	R1TX9PCSVP52RB	0872200760	738061198	Plato Symposium (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Plato's famous and influential examination of love	It is rather difficult to review Plato's Symposium from a modern viewpoint.  The attempts by Agathon's guests, including Socrates, to define love are largely based on the love of boys rather than women.  While that is a difficult concept for me to ponder, I recognize that such a social custom prevailed to some degree in ancient Athens and will attempt to offer an unbiased view of the text.  Basically, partygoers celebrating Agathon's first victory in a drama contest decide to do something besides drink themselves into a stupor because they are still paying for such activity the night before.  Socrates joins the group on this second night, and it is decided that each man in turn will offer his praises to love.  Each of six men offer their interesting, diverse thoughts on the matter, ranging from the conventional to the Socratic ideal.  Phaedrus says that the greatest good a boy can have is a gentle lover and that the greatest good a lover can have is a boy to love.  He stresses self-sacrifice and virtue as the kind of love the gods love most.  Pausanias describes two kinds of love: vulgar love is best explained as love for a woman in the interest of sexual satisfaction; noble love is that concerned with bettering the soul of the object of love (necessarily a young boy).  The doctor Eryximachus explains love in terms of harmony, and he goes so far as to credit the vague notion of love with accomplishing all kinds of things in a diverse set of subjects.  Aristophanes begins by relating a myth about man's origins.  When man was created, individuals were actually attached back to back; the gods later split each human entity in half, and love consists of each person's search for his \\"missing half\\" who can be of either sex; even when two mates find one another, their love is imperfect because they cannot become literally attached as they were originally.  Agathon says that Love is the youngest of the gods, that he offers the means by which all disputes between the gods and between men are settled, and emphasizes the beauty of love (represented quite well by himself, he seems to say).<br />Socrates, as can be expected, shifts the discussion of love to a higher plane.  Claiming to know the art of love if nothing else, Socrates tells how he gained his knowledge from a fictional character called Diotima.  He says that love represents the desire to give \\"birth in beauty,\\" that love is neither a god or a mortal but is instead the messenger between god and man.  To love is to want to acquire and possess the good forever and thus attain immortality.  Socrates goes on to give a very important speech about one of Plato's perfect Forms--namely, the Form of Beauty.  The advanced lover will learn to seek Beauty in its abstract form and will take no more notice of physical beauty; the perfect lover is a philosopher who can create virtue in its true form rather than produce mere images of virtue.  This short summary in no way does justice to Socrates' speech, but it gives the general idea.  After Socrates speaks, a drunken Alcibiades (Socrates' own beloved) crashes the party and commences to give a speech about Socrates, the effect of which is to identify Socrates as a lover who deceives others into loving him.  As both lover and beloved, Socrates is seemingly held up by Plato as the true embodiment of love.  To truly love is to be a philosopher.<br />I myself don't hold this text in as high regard as many intellectuals, but there can be no doubt of this dialogue's influence on Western thought over the centuries.  The book succeeds in the presentation of  advanced philosophical ideas and as literature.  The discussion of the Form of Beauty is particularly useful in terms of understanding Platonic thought.  It would seem that this dinner party and the speeches we read are very likely fictitious and represent Plato's thoughts much more closely than Socrates' own views, but it is impossible to tell to what extent this is true.  The Symposium is inarguably one of Plato's most influential, most important texts and is required reading for anyone seriously interested in philosophy as it has existed and continues to exist in Western society.uably one of Plato's most influential, most important texts and is required reading for anyone seriously interested in philosophy as it has existed and continues to exist in Western society.	2002-07-26
1465985:US	53016962	R1TTE3LFY811VA	157857000X	522618336	Pet First Aid: Cats &amp; Dogs	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	An indispensable reference book for dog and cat owners	The second worst thing that can happen to your pet is for him to get sick or hurt; the truly worst thing is for you as the pet owner to be totally unprepared when accident or misfortune strikes.  This book covers all the basics of first aid care for dogs and cats, from cuts and bee stings to convulsions, choking, and traumatic, life-threatening injuries.  Steps to take in any given situation are laid out one at a time, and a number of very helpful illustrations make all of the information as direct and understandable as it can be.  The book is arranged alphabetically by first aid topic, so you can always find the information you need quickly and easily. You really don't even have to read the book.  Just having it close at hand when something happens to your pet can make a real difference; it can even help save your loyal companion's life.  I would recommend reading the book, though, or at least glancing through it.  You can learn important warning signs to watch for in your pet's behavior and help catch a problem in its early stages.  In cases of real emergency, knowing what not to do can be just as important as knowing what you should do.  You would do well to follow the precautionary suggestions the book describes--putting together a pet first aid kit, for example.  By no means can or should this book take the place of professional veterinary care, a point which the text emphasizes, but it can help keep your pet healthy and happy.	2002-07-23
1466681:US	53016962	R2KSAG4XDTMU9K	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	314	345	N	N	Hats off, gentlemen!	The Plague is easily one of the best ten novels ever written, far surpassing even the erstwhile classic The Stranger.  Whereas we examine an uncommonly cold-hearted man in a normal world in the pages of The Stranger, in this novel it is a harsh outside world which closes in on a group of fascinating characters.  It is in this much more developed context that Camus' most remarkable notions of humanity, life, and existence can be fleshed out and communicated more effectively.  The lessons of good, normal lives in a world gone mad are much more instructive and meaningful than the observations in The Stranger of a man gone mad in a normal world.<br />A word to the wise: when large numbers of rats come out of the woodwork and commence dying nasty, bloody deaths in the streets and houses, something is definitely wrong.  In the port city of Oran, the population ignores the signs of danger and only grudgingly admits that an epidemic, a form of the bubonic plague to be exact, has taken root in their city.  The protagonist, Dr. Rieux, is a doctor who finally helps convince the authorities to take extreme measures in the interest of public safety and to eventually quarantine the entire town.  Over the course of the novel, we get to observe the manner in which Dr. Rieux, his companions, and prominent men of the community react to the worsening plague and its social consequences.  Dr. Rieux has just sent his unhealthy wife off to a sanitarium before the plague breaks out, and he must suffer her absence alongside the stresses of working 20+ hours a day trying to save people's lives while accomplishing  little more than watching them die horrible deaths.  Dr. Rieux's attempts to make sense of everything is a basic pulse of the story; an atheist, he cannot find happiness but goes on day after day fighting the disease with all his might because that is what he as a doctor is supposed to do.  His friend Tarrou supplies much of the knowledge we glean about the reactions of society as a whole as month after month of isolation continues in the face of death's greedy fingers.  His journal records small but important facts about all manner of men, yet he himself cannot be said to find ultimate peace.  We first encounter M. Cottard after he has hanged himself and been saved before death.  A criminal type yet not a bad man, his initial worries over inquiries into his suicide attempt fade away as the plague's grip on Oran tightens.  He emerges from a self-imposed exile to actually become a communicating member of society; he alone seems to enjoy the plague because it makes everyone else like him, forced to live each day with the fear of a  brooding, horrible fate.  Then there is M. Grande, one of my favorite characters in all of literature.  A simple civil service employee, he devotes himself to volunteer work computing plague statistics and the like while still continuing his fervent efforts at writing a novel.  Grande's wife left him years earlier because he got too wrapped up in his work and lost the words to communicate his love for her; he began writing a novel in an attempt to find those words.  With great devotion and commitment he works on his writing, determined to produce a perfectly crafted novel, one where each word is meaningful and necessary for the story--in short, one that will inspire the future publisher to introduce it to his publishing house cohorts with the phrase, \\"Hats off, gentlemen.\\"  After untold months of dedicated effort, Grande has yet to get the first sentence to sound exactly right; he engages all of his efforts into perfecting this one sentence, sure that the rest of the novel will fall into place after it is perfected.<br />These main characters are all fascinating character studies.  Not all of them live to see the plague's end, but each of them struggles to find meaning in his own experience--e.g., one character continues living because that is what is required of human beings, to go on fighting for life in a meaningless world; another character seeks to become a saint of sorts by helping his fellow man fight the pestilence.  The overriding message I was left with at the end is that life is worth living despite the arbitrary cruelties of an unforgiving world because there is more good in man than there is evil.  I found that the book delivered in fact a rather darkly uplifting celebration of the human spirit; one's loved ones give life its meaning in a hostile world.  The Plague succeeds in ways The Stranger never could because the characters in this novel are utterly human and represent diverse aspects of the lives of each of us.gless world; another character seeks to become a saint of sorts by helping his fellow man fight the pestilence.  The overriding message I was left with at the end is that life is worth living despite the arbitrary cruelties of an unforgiving world because there is more good in man than there is evil.  I found that the book delivered in fact a rather darkly uplifting celebration of the human spirit; one's loved ones give life its meaning in a hostile world.  The Plague succeeds in ways The Stranger never could because the characters in this novel are utterly human and represent diverse aspects of the lives of each of us.	2002-07-22
1467967:US	53016962	R2EJCHIFJ4RGFT	0872201341	557001473	Laches and Charmides (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	In search of courage and temperance	In these two dialogues, Socrates seeks to discover the true nature of virtue by trying to define a single virtue, namely courage in the Laches and temperance in the Charmides.  In the first text, two men have sought the counsel of two generals, Nicias and Laches, for advice in how to educate their sons to be good and virtuous men.  Socrates is soon brought into the conversation, and he predictably shifts the discussion from one of means to one of ends.  Socrates says that the best education is one for the benefit of the boys' souls, namely virtue.  Before one can find a teacher of virtue, one must understand what virtue is.  He proposes to simplify matters by seeking to define one aspect of virtue, namely courage.  Nicias and Laches offer such definitions as a sort of endurance of the soul and a knowledge of the fearful and the hopeful in war, but Socrates identifies problems with each proffered definition.  The dialogue ends with each man admitting failure.  In the Charmides, a similar debate takes place, only this time it is a different aspect of virtue, namely temperance, which the men attempt to define.  The young philosopher Charmides, whose beauty initially overwhelms Socrates, first says that temperance consists of doing things in an orderly and quiet way; when Socrates points out the inadequacy of such a definition, Charmides says that temperance is a form of modesty.  When Socrates proves to him that modesty can be both good and bad, he retreats and refers to someone else's notion that temperance consists of minding one's own business.  Critias then jumps into the fray to defend this third position; once he is put on the defensive, he falls back on two alternate definitions--first, that temperance consists of doing good things, and then that temperance is equivalent to knowing oneself.  In the end, no satisfactory definition of temperance is arrived at, although one is left with the impression that temperance has much to do with the knowledge of good and evil.<br />These two dialogues are rather short, and they do succeed in demonstrating the effective yet annoying method of Socrates' philosophic inquiries.  I found Charmides to be a somewhat harder text to follow because it sometimes broke down into wild abstractions, but both texts are quite readable in terms of the narrative style of the writing.  Rosamond Kent Sprague, the translator, provides many useful footnotes throughout the book, and, more importantly, offers a very helpful introduction to each dialogue.  Each introduction sets the context and timeframe for the particular dialogue, offers a basic rundown of its main ideas and arguments, and basically makes each text much more accessible and readable for this reader.il.<br />These two dialogues are rather short, and they do succeed in demonstrating the effective yet annoying method of Socrates' philosophic inquiries.  I found Charmides to be a somewhat harder text to follow because it sometimes broke down into wild abstractions, but both texts are quite readable in terms of the narrative style of the writing.  Rosamond Kent Sprague, the translator, provides many useful footnotes throughout the book, and, more importantly, offers a very helpful introduction to each dialogue.  Each introduction sets the context and timeframe for the particular dialogue, offers a basic rundown of its main ideas and arguments, and basically makes each text much more accessible and readable for this reader.	2002-07-21
1469287:US	53016962	R3BGU2D73MBCLW	0023610905	343285123	Plato: Protagoras	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Dense and inconclusive	In this Protagoras dialogue, the conversation is about virtue--what it is and if it can be taught.  The text consists of several speeches in conjunction with the familiar Socratic method of dialogue.  Protagoras, whom Socrates does treat with a good bit of respect, declares that he teaches the art of politics and makes of his students better citizens.  Socrates voices his opinion that virtue cannot in fact be taught.  The conversation basically revolves around these two questions.  In the middle of the debate, Socrates declares his intention to leave for an appointment if Protagoras does not stop answering his questions with long speeches, and a compromise must be struck before the debate continues.  Socrates himself, though, often makes long speeches of his own, one example being a lengthy discussion of his interpretation of a poem.  I found this to be a rather difficult text to understand, and its effectiveness is further hampered by the fact that too many lengthy speeches constantly upset the balance and blur the focus of the debate.  There is also little sense of accomplishment at the conclusion because no conclusive truths are agreed upon by the two adversaries.<br />Several core Socratic ideas are incorporated into his arguments--e.g., no man does evil willingly but only out of ignorance.  Protagoras contends that all men have a share in justice and virtue, for these qualities were given to man by the gods in order that man might live communally for self-protection against nature; all but the thoroughly unredeemable thus have the right and ability to speak of virtue, and all men are actually teachers of virtue--punishment itself is intended as a means for correcting the evil in an individual.  Still, the natural ability of each individual in this regard determines his ability to act justly--this is how Protagoras explains the fact that the sons of good men sometimes turn out bad.  Socrates doesn't buy this argument.  In the argument's \\"second round,\\" he tries to determine whether virtue is one thing in itself or if there are distinct parts to it such as piety, self-control, justice, wisdom, and courage.  This question was never sufficiently dealt with in my mind.  Basically, we end the debate back where we started, with Socrates stating that virtue cannot be taught and that human nature dictates that the individual chooses what he believes to be good and/or what he believes to be the lesser of two evils.<br />My 1956 Library of Liberal Arts edition contains a lengthy introduction by Gretory Vlastos.  This introduction may be appreciated by individuals with some formal knowledge about philosophy, but I found it a dense jungle of words that often required a number of machete hacks of effort to get through.  It is far more complicated than Plato's dialogue itself.  Vlastos does seek to show some of the methodological problems of Socrates' method, but I found his discussion of this enticing subject very hard to follow.  He also reminds me of Socrates in that he seems to take some joy in saying other academic writers have been dead wrong about certain things and then concludes by saying that the individuals he criticizes so forthrightly are actually good men whom he has learned a great deal from.<br />If you are unfamiliar with Plato's philosophy, you certainly do not want to start your study with this particular dialogue.  As someone with very little philosophical training, I found myself confused on more than one occasion, despite the fact that I have only recently read again a number of Plato's more reader-friendly writings.  When I picked this particular edition of the book up, I was unsure if I should read the lengthy introduction before or after the dialogue itself, and I now can say that the introduction is so dense that I would be no worse off had I not read it at all.to determine whether virtue is one thing in itself or if there are distinct parts to it such as piety, self-control, justice, wisdom, and courage.  This question was never sufficiently dealt with in my mind.  Basically, we end the debate back where we started, with Socrates stating that virtue cannot be taught and that human nature dictates that the individual chooses what he believes to be good and/or what he believes to be the lesser of two evils.<br />My 1956 Library of Liberal Arts edition contains a lengthy introduction by Gretory Vlastos.  This introduction may be appreciated by individuals with some formal knowledge about philosophy, but I found it a dense jungle of words that often required a number of machete hacks of effort to get through.  It is far more complicated than Plato's dialogue itself.  Vlastos does seek to show some of the methodological problems of Socrates' method, but I found his discussion of this enticing subject very hard to follow.  He also reminds me of Socrates in that he seems to take some joy in saying other academic writers have been dead wrong about certain things and then concludes by saying that the individuals he criticizes so forthrightly are actually good men whom he has learned a great deal from.  <br />If you are unfamiliar with Plato's philosophy, you certainly do not want to start your study with this particular dialogue.  As someone with very little philosophical training, I found myself confused on more than one occasion, despite the fact that I have only recently read again a number of Plato's more reader-friendly writings.  When I picked this particular edition of the book up, I was unsure if I should read the lengthy introduction before or after the dialogue itself, and I now can say that the introduction is so dense that I would be no worse off had I not read it at all.	2002-07-20
1469823:US	53016962	R3J922HGRIEOEK	0140440941	72538480	Gorgias (The Penguin Classics, L94)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	A great introduction to Plato's philosophy	This is one of my favorite Socratic dialogues.  The evidence suggests that Plato wrote it soon after the execution of Socrates, and while I would not say there is a bitter edge to this Gorgias dialogue, I can definitely say that the exchanges do get a little lively at times.  At one point, I could almost hear the voices of Socrates and Polus being raised as they argued.  Another positive aspect of this dialogue is the fact that it is comparatively easy to understand.  Socrates does not start spouting ideas about true Forms or using geometry to prove his points; the more esoteric, more advanced Platonic ideas are to be found in Plato's later writings.  In many ways, this dialogue also serves as an introduction to Plato's masterpiece The Republic.  Socrates' ideas on some things seem nascent at this point, and he actually contradicts some points he would later make, but the heart of Socratic thought lies within easy grasp in the pages of this dialogue.<br />The dialogue begins as a discussion about the true nature of oratory.  The famed orator Gorgias is in town, and Socrates is most anxious to have a discussion with him.  At first, Gorgias' younger friend Polus desires to speak for Gorgias, but he proves little match for Socrates.  When Gorgias enters the discussion, Socrates treats him very well, as a respectable man with whom he disagrees, and Gorgias for his part is never flustered by Socrates' description of his art as a knack and as a form of pandering.  Later, Callicles bravely jumps into the mix, and things really get interesting.  Socrates seemingly admires Callicles' courage to state what he means without shame, yet he winds up getting Callicles to agree with his points in the end.  What is it all about?  The main points that Socrates makes are that it is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong, and that it is better for a man to be punished for his wrongs than to escape punishment.  Implicit in his argument is the belief that all wrongdoing is the result of ignorance; following up on this idea, he declares that dictators and politicians who hold vast powers are the most miserable men of all.  He goes so far as to describe Athenian heroes such as Pericles as bad men because the state was less healthy when they left office than when they took office, the proof being that such men eventually lost power and were even ostracized.<br />For Socrates, happiness comes from being virtuous and self-disciplined.  The orator can make a great speech and convince his peers that he is right, but he does this by inculcating belief rather than knowledge in the minds of his audience; he requires no knowledge to win such a debate, and as a result he tells the people what he knows they want to hear rather than what is truly best for them.  Right and wrong are immaterial to the orator, Socrates charges.  Callicles urges Socrates to give up his immature fixation on philosophy and become a public speaker; were he to be brought to court and charged with a wrong, Callicles tells him that he would be unable to defend himself.  Much of the concluding pages consist of a wonderful defense by Socrates of his way of life.  He agrees that a court could rather easily try and execute him, but if that were to happen, only his accusers would suffer for it.  His thoughts are for the next world, and he has no fear of death because he believes a man with a clean, healthy soul such as his will be given immediate access to the isles of the blessed.  The execution of Socrates was clearly on Plato's mind as he wrote this particular discourse.<br />I would recommend this dialogue to individuals seeking an introduction to Plato's philosophy.  The entire discussion is clear throughout and easily comprehensible, and it proves interesting to see how some of Plato's thoughts changed between the years separating this dialogue and The Republic.t of ignorance; following up on this idea, he declares that dictators and politicians who hold vast powers are the most miserable men of all.  He goes so far as to describe Athenian heroes such as Pericles as bad men because the state was less healthy when they left office than when they took office, the proof being that such men eventually lost power and were even ostracized. <br />For Socrates, happiness comes from being virtuous and self-disciplined.  The orator can make a great speech and convince his peers that he is right, but he does this by inculcating belief rather than knowledge in the minds of his audience; he requires no knowledge to win such a debate, and as a result he tells the people what he knows they want to hear rather than what is truly best for them.  Right and wrong are immaterial to the orator, Socrates charges.  Callicles urges Socrates to give up his immature fixation on philosophy and become a public speaker; were he to be brought to court and charged with a wrong, Callicles tells him that he would be unable to defend himself.  Much of the concluding pages consist of a wonderful defense by Socrates of his way of life.  He agrees that a court could rather easily try and execute him, but if that were to happen, only his accusers would suffer for it.  His thoughts are for the next world, and he has no fear of death because he believes a man with a clean, healthy soul such as his will be given immediate access to the isles of the blessed.  The execution of Socrates was clearly on Plato's mind as he wrote this particular discourse.<br />I would recommend this dialogue to individuals seeking an introduction to Plato's philosophy.  The entire discussion is clear throughout and easily comprehensible, and it proves interesting to see how some of Plato's thoughts changed between the years separating this dialogue and The Republic.	2002-07-19
1474527:US	53016962	R1YRO6CDFSBKNO	0915145235	700200288	Plato: Five Dialogues	Books	5	15	19	N	N	The death of Socrates and the basics of Platonic philosophy	Many are the college students who have read the Platonic discourses collected in this volume.  Along with The Republic, these dialogues form the most basic core of Platonic philosophy and are required reading for anyone interested in the art of philosophy.<br />In the Euthyphro dialogue, Socrates is on his way to court to answer the charges of Meletus that he creates his own gods and does not believe in the gods of society.  On his way, he meets Euthyphro, a lawyer-priest of some sort who tells Socrates that he is prosecuting his own father for the murder of a slave (a slave who had himself committed murder).  Socrates compels the learned Euthyphro to explain to him the truth about what is pious and what impious; if he can tell the court what he has learned from the knowledgeable Euthyphro, he will have no trouble countering Meletus' charges.  Euthyphro tries to define what is pious as that which is pleasing to the gods, but Socrates shows him that his definition is really just an effect of piety, and Euthyphro bows out of the circular conversation without ever giving Socrates a satisfactory definition of true piety.<br />In The Apology, Socrates defends himself from both the recent charges of Meletus for impiety as well as the host of charges long leveled at him as being a corrupter of the youth.  He cites a pronouncement of the Delphic oracle that he is the wisest of all men and explains how he has spent his life trying to vindicate the god's pronouncement by seeking out the wisest men in society and testing them.  The wisest men, he says, turn out to be not wise at all.  He himself knows he is not wise, while the supposedly wise think they are wise when they are not, and he has concluded that the gods believe that the wisest man is the man who knows how much he does not know.  The fact that he shows men that they are not in fact wise has admittedly made Socrates unpopular and turned the minds of many citizens against him. He bravely says he will continue philosophizing if he is acquitted because the god himself compels him to do so.  In fact, he says society benefits from what he is doing (namely, trying to make men more virtuous), and he defends himself by saying that society itself will be harmed by his execution.  Of course, claiming that he is actually a gift of the god for Athens is a hard way to win over a jury already biased against him.  Upon his conviction, he willingly accepts the death sentence imposed upon him, but he, somewhat oddly, warns his fellow citizens that there are younger men ready to come out and question individuals in the same manner as he has done.<br />In the Crito, Socrates convinces his friend Crito that it is just and right for him to accede to the punishment of death returned by the Athenian jury.  He feels that he has been wronged by men but not the laws or society, and to escape from prison and run away would make of him the very type of man the jury wrongly concluded him to be.  It is an exceedingly elegant and brave discourse.<br />Meno is one of Plato's early and, to my mind, least successful, Socratic dialogues.  The conversation centers, naturally enough, on virtue and whether or not it is teachable.  Meno's definitions of virtue are woefully inadequate, by and large, and deserving of Socrates' typical arrogance.  At one point, Meno says that one cannot learn about what one does not know.  To counter this argument, Socrates, arguing that the soul is eternal and that learning is in fact recollection, sets about showing how a slave \\"remembers\\" the answers to geometrical questions Socrates puts to him.  Later, when Meno agrees with the notion that virtue is knowledge and can be taught, Socrates counters the point by saying he has yet to find anyone who truly practices virtue and is thus qualified to teach it.  In the end, Socrates concludes that virtue cannot be taught and is in fact a gift of the gods.<br />The Phaedo is a third-person account of the philosophical discussion between Socrates and his friends on the day of his death.  Socrates accepts his fate most amicably, arguing that death is the means by which to achieve the aims of true philosophy, for only by escaping the evil of the body can the soul truly acquire wisdom.  Socrates renews his argument that learning is in fact recollection, supposedly proving that the soul exists before birth.  He also argues that everything comes from its opposite; if death comes from life, then life must come from death.  The proofs he offers for his belief that the soul is eternal do not strike me as very convincing.  In many ways, the Phaedo is a precursor to much of the philosophy of The Republic, in which the concepts of the eternal soul and the invisible Forms mentioned here are threshed out much more satisfactorily.ocrates and his friends on the day of his death.  Socrates accepts his fate most amicably, arguing that death is the means by which to achieve the aims of true philosophy, for only by escaping the evil of the body can the soul truly acquire wisdom.  Socrates renews his argument that learning is in fact recollection, supposedly proving that the soul exists before birth.  He also argues that everything comes from its opposite; if death comes from life, then life must come from death.  The proofs he offers for his belief that the soul is eternal do not strike me as very convincing.  In many ways, the Phaedo is a precursor to much of the philosophy of The Republic, in which the concepts of the eternal soul and the invisible Forms mentioned here are threshed out much more satisfactorily.	2002-07-15
1475689:US	53016962	R1MX63OBJS0NNC	0452010055	121900974	The Satyricon (Meridian Classics)	Books	2	5	38	N	N	Just because it's ancient doesn't mean it's any good	Having run across this singular work for the first time, I imagined that it would be as funny as the jacket described and less raunchy than I expected.  I was completely wrong.  In fairness to the text, it is woefully incomplete, consisting mainly of fragments from some of its later volumes.  Some call this the first novel, and it must have been incredibly lengthy in its original state.  What we have today is the story of a unwholesome youth who obsesses in his love for his homosexual lover Giton but engages in general ribaldry with all sorts of men (and sometimes even women).  At some point in the tale, he is cursed with impotence (although the story never describes conditions of this type in any sort of subdued language) and bewails his constant state of bad luck and persecution while seeking a cure for his condition.  Because even this existing text is fragmented, the story is sometimes hard to follow due to gaping holes in the narrative. The largest whole section describes a banquet held by a rich former slave; the incredible ostentatiousness of the proceedings is matched only by its overtly perverse sexual nature.  This text eventually overwhelmed my desire to interpret it as a product of its age.  While the jokes are not funny and the satire is too obscure for my true understanding and doubtful appreciation, the constant dirty jokes and sexual references quite sabotaged the story for me.<br />I was troubled by the translator's numerous admissions at having sacrificed the original Latin for today's English.  While I understand his desire to make the work readable and understandable to a modern audience, I would much prefer to have a more literal translation--if for no other reason than to know whether the juvenile references contained herein date back to Polonius or to the modern translator.  While Rome itself can certainly not be judged by one satirical work, this book does succeed in casting a shadow of immorality on the ancient Romans. I really cannot recommend this book.  Even those seeking prurient pleasures and nothing else will be disappointed.mmend this book.  Even those seeking prurient pleasures and nothing else will be disappointed.	2002-07-14
1480891:US	53016962	R3HC1UCG410XQE	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	317	346	N	N	An existentialist tour de force of literature	The Stranger is a haunting, challenging masterpiece of literature.  While it is fiction, it actually manages to express the complex concepts and themes of existential philosophy better than the movement's most noted philosophical writings and almost as well as Dostoyevsky's Notes From the Underground.  This is a new kind of literature.  The story in and of itself is rather simple, but the glimpses into the intellect and feelings of the protagonist are the sources of the magic of this novel.  M.Meursault is a normal man in Algiers, France.  When we meet him, he is on the way to his mother's funeral, where he says very little, expresses no remorse over her death, and immediately returns home.  The next day, he goes swimming, meets Marie, takes her to see a comedy that night, and spends the next few weeks living his normal life and occassionally seeing Marie.  He ends up getting indirectly involved in a dispute between his neighbor Raymond and a girl who did him wrong, and the conflict culminates in an encounter on the beach between Raymond, Meursault, and the girl's Arab brother and friend.  Raymond is cut with a knife, but the whole episode seems to be resolved.  Meursault, though, decides later to take another walk on the beach because he is too worn out to go inside and rejoin his friends, and somewhat inexplicably he ends up killing one of the Arabs.  The second half of the novel examines Meursault's thoughts in relation to his trial and sentence; interestingly, he is prosecuted as much if not more for his moral character than for the crime of murder itself.<br />Basically, Meursault does not care about anything, does not feel anything for anyone (including himself, for the most part).  He looks at life objectively and determines that it really doesn't matter whether he does something or not in the overall scheme of things.  When Marie expresses her love for him, he tells her he will marry her if it will make her happy but that he cannot say he really loves her.  He expresses no remorse for killing the Arab because it just happened; he had no intention of doing it, but the fact is that he did, so there's little point in dwelling on it.  He cares about the present and, to a lesser degree, the future, but the past is meaningless for the very reason that it is the past.  Meursault sees things as they are; rather than rely on flights of fantasy and imagination (the typical tools of the Romanticists), he deals with facts in the here and now rather than run from them and has no problem admitting the seemingly obvious fact that man is a creature of utter depravity.  He rejects religion; since each man must eventually die, what does it matter what he does while on earth.  It is a man's hopes and dreams that weigh down his very existence; Marsault can only find happiness by cleansing himself of all such illusory notions.<br />Needless to say, this is not an uplifting book, but it is an engaging, thought-provoking one.  While Camus cannot be called a true existentialist in his own philosophical outlook, his fiction does epitomize many existentialist ideas.  Marsault is a protagonist like no other in literature--you cannot like him, he is obviously guilty of killing a man in cold blood, and he is of a cold-hearted nature, yet you do understand some of his thinking, find yourself more and more interested in his dark outlook on life, and have to admit that much of what he believes makes sense.He expresses no remorse for killing the Arab because it just happened; he had no intention of doing it, but the fact is that he did, so there's little point in dwelling on it.  He cares about the present and, to a lesser degree, the future, but the past is meaningless for the very reason that it is the past.  Meursault sees things as they are; rather than rely on flights of fantasy and imagination (the typical tools of the Romanticists), he deals with facts in the here and now rather than run from them and has no problem admitting the seemingly obvious fact that man is a creature of utter depravity.  He rejects religion; since each man must eventually die, what does it matter what he does while on earth.  It is a man's hopes and dreams that weigh down his very existence; Marsault can only find happiness by cleansing himself of all such illusory notions.<br />Needless to say, this is not an uplifting book, but it is an engaging, thought-provoking one.  While Camus cannot be called a true existentialist in his own philosophical outlook, his fiction does epitomize many existentialist ideas.  Marsault is a protagonist like no other in literature--you cannot like him, he is obviously guilty of killing a man in cold blood, and he is of a cold-hearted nature, yet you do understand some of his thinking, find yourself more and more interested in his dark outlook on life, and have to admit that much of what he believes makes sense.	2002-07-10
1483206:US	53016962	R1KDTHLKOC3RL2	044023705X	868082247	Area 51: Excalibur	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Puts all of the pieces in place for the ultimate conclusion	Everything hits the fan in this sixth novel of the Area 51 series.  Two factions of the Airlia alien race are battling for supremacy on Earth, two-thirds of America's Pacific fleet has fallen into the hands of the seemingly worse alien faction (and their unstoppable nanotechnological advances), our heroes have been abandoned and almost killed at the hands of the government, a new Majestic 12 group has captured a resurrected Lisa Duncan and begun exposing her to innumerable tests, the Holy Grail remains in alien hands, the Middle East is in even more turmoil than usual, China has launched a major offensive against both Taiwan and (along with the North Koreans) South Korea which sees weapons of mass destruction unleashed in the theater, and the surviving Airlia on Mars are busy constructing some type of huge, unidentifiable something atop Mons Olympus.  The only hope for humanity is to find the far from mythical sword Excalibur and use it to gain control of the still-hidden main guardian computer.  To succeed in this last desperate strategy, the Russian Yakov will have to find the \\"Ark\\" at Mount Ararat and Mike Turcotte must journey to the very pinnacle of Mount Everest.  By now, we pretty much know where each group stands in the struggle, but the author does not fail in presenting us with some shocking new developments and revelations about the characters we have been following for hundreds and hundreds of pages already.  While this book would seem to offer a slight amount of resolution to a problem or two, it poses still  more questions than it answers.  The stage is now set for an ultimate resolution to this exciting science fiction series in the concluding novel titled, appropriately enough, \\"Area 51: The Truth.\\"  I am sure I am not alone in eagerly awaiting the final book in the series.  The author has continued to surprise me all along, and I have abundant faith in the author's ability to give us a concluding novel worthy of all the buildup from the first six books.oks.	2002-07-08
1487038:US	53016962	R3PZGMSTAXUT14	0380895854	862447522	Wars of Gods and Men, The (Earth Chronicles)	Books	5	108	115	N	N	A fascinating new perspective on ancient warfare	This third entry in the Earth Chronicles series contains some of Sitchin's most interesting theories as to the history of mankind.  Building upon his reconstruction of ancient history as espoused in the previous two books, the author now sets out to describe the evolution on warfare on earth.  First, he restates his earlier theories which, in a nutshell, is that the Anunnaki, inhabitants of a 10th planet now on the far side of our sun, came to earth millennia ago and eventually created modern man by means of genetic manipulation.  These &quot;gods&quot; were anything but divine, constantly fighting amongst themselves for power and prestige.  Inevitably, the warring gods turned to man as new instruments of warfare against their enemies.  Men such as Sargon the Great were granted kingship in Mesopotamia and surrounding areas and encouraged to wage war on whomever their gods commanded them to fight.  With gods often fighting alongside men, brandishing powerful weapons of destruction, warfare became a common, increasingly destructive way of life.<br />Sitchin presents some eye-raising theories in these pages which bear mentioning.  First, he virtually rewrites the history of the pyramids of Giza in terms of the construction and usage of the monuments, the sentence of a god to imprisonment in the Great Pyramid, and new thoughts on the real purposes behind the baffling shafts, rooms, and plugs found therein.  Part of Sitchin's argument about the creation of the pyramids revolves around mathematics, and this part of the book does temporarily bog the reader down a bit.  Next, he identifies Abraham of the Bible as the noble son of a Sumerian priest and not a Semite at all; more incredibly, he argues that the real purpose of Abraham's ordained trip to Canaan was to stop an invading army of eastern kings from capturing the Anunnaki control center and spaceport in the Sinai peninsula.  Finally, Sitchin argues that Sodom and Gomorrah, as well as the Sinai space port, were actually destroyed by nuclear weapons and that the tragic disappearance of the ancient Sumerians is to be explained by the radioactive fallout of the explosions drifting over the area.<br />True or not, Sitchin's theories are fascinating.  His ideas are not his own, they are his interpretation of the ancient writings of the Sumerians, Egyptians, Israelites, and succeeding thinkers and historians.  While many would condemn Sitchin for challenging the truth of the Bible, he actually helps support the history of that document--much of the information he has discovered from Sumerian, Akkadian, Egyptian, and other ancient sources actually matches remarkably well the facts presented in the Bible.  Of course, one is hard pressed to trust Sitchin's data implicitly (unless one can translate diverse ancient writings), but he does succeed in presenting a unified, linear chronology of events.  Whether his interpretation is correct or not, it does serve to explain a number of unsolved mysteries from man's past and makes for fascinating reading.ally destroyed by nuclear weapons and that the tragic disappearance of the ancient Sumerians is to be explained by the radioactive fallout of the explosions drifting over the area.  <br />True or not, Sitchin's theories are fascinating.  His ideas are not his own, they are his interpretation of the ancient writings of the Sumerians, Egyptians, Israelites, and succeeding thinkers and historians.  While many would condemn Sitchin for challenging the truth of the Bible, he actually helps support the history of that document--much of the information he has discovered from Sumerian, Akkadian, Egyptian, and other ancient sources actually matches remarkably well the facts presented in the Bible.  Of course, one is hard pressed to trust Sitchin's data implicitly (unless one can translate diverse ancient writings), but he does succeed in presenting a unified, linear chronology of events.  Whether his interpretation is correct or not, it does serve to explain a number of unsolved mysteries from man's past and makes for fascinating reading.	2002-07-05
1491814:US	53016962	RR4HKZ8G8Z09M	1880090104	508901953	Ghosts of the Air: True Stories of Aerial Hauntings	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Fascinating, authoritative tales of aerial hauntings	This is a book that should appeal greatly to those interested in the paranormal as well as those captivated by aviation.  The author writes in an engaging, personalized manner, and he bends over backward to defend the stories he relates as well as the integrity of his contributors.  He does not try to explain the unexplainable; he merely presents each tale the way it happened, often using the very words of the person involved.  Throughout, the author's great love for flying and for the men and women involved in aviation is openly apparent.  Caidin's qualifications as a pilot and aviation expert are almost unequalled; he has flown countless aircraft of all sorts in his life, he has written well over a hundred books on aviation, and he is well known in aviation circles.  The fact that he himself cites a number of personal examples of impossible things that happened to him while in flight lends great authority to his role as compiler of the truths of others.<br />Some of the stories are truly fascinating: a plane disappears for ten minutes on approach to Miami and everyone on board &quot;loses&quot; ten minutes; military aircraft fly hundreds of miles back to base and actually land with a dead pilot or no crew whatsoever; three flight crews return to base and are debriefed from a mission in which, it is soon discovered, all planes and crew were lost; pilots encounter planes from an entirely different era which then disappear; ghostly apparitions and sounds are encountered on military bases and airfields, etc.  Every tale is fascinating; more importantly, each tale is verifed to the extent possible.  Caidin tells us that the vast majority of the stories he collected were rejected; only the stories he could research intensively and authoritatively prove as having happened in the ways they were described to him made the final cut.  He stands by these unexplainable stories and the brave men and women who had the courage to reveal truths many had never revealed before to another soul.  As the author often points out, the events and experiences detailed here could not possibly have happened, yet they did happen.another soul.  As the author often points out, the events and experiences detailed here could not possibly have happened, yet they did happen.	2002-07-01
1493694:US	53016962	R1DOGP88QM8OHJ	1587150468	181470201	To the Vanishing Point	Books	2	5	8	N	N	If only this manuscript would have vanished. . .	In all honesty, I found this book to be badly written and less than compelling.  The dialogue between the characters, particularly that between the adults and the children (a sixteen-year old girl and ten-year old boy), was forced and often painfully artificial.  The family is traveling to Las Vegas in a motor home because the father thinks a trip through the desert will be educational for his kids.  They naturally are bored out of their minds.  Then they pick up a hitchhiker, a girl who calls herself Mouse, who tells them that she is a millennium-old singer who must find her way to the Spinner and sing to him in order to keep reality from falling apart.  The minions of Evil and Chaos remain dangerously close behind them as they journey through a myriad of horrible reality threads on their way to the Vanishing Point where the Spinner resides.  Along the way, they pick up the janitor from Hell (literally) and a dwarfish chef who wandered into a post-Apocalyptic Salt Lake City.  Will the group survive and get Mouse to the Spinner before reality snaps?  Does the reader even care?<br />When Foster is describing action and crisis events, he does a pretty good job.  Unfortunately, there are far too many sections of dialogue which ruin the whole book.  The communication between the parents and kids in particular is wooden; the author seems to be trying too hard to mimic real intergenerational communication.  The adults, especially the father, behave irrationally at times.  One minute the father is threatening to dump Mouse on the side of the road, and the next he is ogling her beauty and promising to stay with her until the end.  Whenever the family escapes one crisis, everyone behaves as if everything is normal again; when their son disappears, they forget about him rather quickly and even manage to go to sleep that night.  The father constantly tells us how brave he is for having started his own business, yet he bemoans his own rampant cowardice just as often.  Foster even seems to forget or ignore important plot points--for example, the father grows four extra arms at one point, and then the topic is never addressed again.<br />The story itself is weak enough without being cursed with such bad characterization and dialogue.  I was unable to like a single character, and I could not help but wince during several sections as I watched these puppetlike characters go about their mission.  I know that Foster has written and sold many books, but bad is the only word I can use to describe To the Vanishing Point.en seems to forget or ignore important plot points--for example, the father grows four extra arms at one point, and then the topic is never addressed again.  <br />The story itself is weak enough without being cursed with such bad characterization and dialogue.  I was unable to like a single character, and I could not help but wince during several sections as I watched these puppetlike characters go about their mission.  I know that Foster has written and sold many books, but bad is the only word I can use to describe To the Vanishing Point.	2002-06-29
1495489:US	53016962	R2BX5N26OQVYS6	0440234956	782192465	The Grail (Area 51, Bk. 5)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Area 51 series stumbles but races ahead	This fifth book in the Area 51 series keeps the series moving at a thrilling pace and kept my rapt attention from start to finish, but the storyline itself does show some frays around the edges.  While a lot of things go on simultaneously in different parts of the globe, not a whole heck of a lot seems to happen overall.  The newfound reliance of the heroes upon a book written over a hundred years ago serves to slow the story down and make it less believable, and I was disappointed to see a potentially shocking ending sabotaged by a somewhat familiar ruse--it is as if the author chickened out at the last minute from following through on a bold, brave idea.  Of course, the addition of King Arthur, Merlin, and the Holy Grail to the storyline fuels the fire of my interests to solar proportions.  Some readers may be somewhat disappointed because this book, even more than its predecessors, seems to focus on laying out the groundwork for what is to come later--while I myself was enthralled to see the mystery and complexity of the storyline wratcheted up even higher, some may expect to have a few answers rather than more and more questions by this point in the series.  Certainly, everything looks set to explode in the next novel because all of the pieces now seem to be in place for the long hinted-at global conflict between humanity and the alien Airlia.  So many questions have been posed so far, it may take at least two more books just to answer them all.  If you've read this far into the series, you are in it for the long haul, and we can only hope that the author is able to eventually give us a conclusion worthy of all of this intense buildup.  I am still excited about this series, intrigued by some of the little hints and clues that have been dropped along my path, and more than ready to dive into the sixth book.	2002-06-27
1497733:US	53016962	R2LCJW8AAFJC3J	0440234948	418441479	Area 51: The Sphinx	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is really getting good now	The author isn't going to win a Nobel Prize for literature, but Area 51: The Sphinx has me more excited about this series than ever, which is quite an accomplishment for a series already at least 1400 pages long.  There's not much point in describing the plot since this is the fourth Area 51 novel to be released.  I must admit the plot has grown quite complicated by now, and I'm sometimes unsure which alien-controlled or alien-influenced groups are which because they are all so mysterious and inscrutable.  It would be easy to take the basic premise of alien contact and let the story flop around like a dead fish, with predictable results, but the author has long ago transcended the UFO theme and laced his storytelling with unpredictable twists and turns, continually bringing in fresh new excitement and potentialities of earth's greatest mysteries, such as the fabled Hall of Records beneath the Sphinx, the Ark of the Covenant, and lost cities in the Amazon.  I love the way he has brought a Russian Section 4 (read Soviet Majestic-12) operative into the heart of the activity, playing with the trust factor between the American and Russian agents like a literary yo-yo.  In this novel, the very fate of the United States rests in the hands of the unlikely US-Russian duo.  It is true that the author makes no real effort to tie up any loose ends at the end of this story, but I don't care by this point because I'm already poised to pounce on the fifth novel and keep plunging ahead.  The introduction of nanotechnology by the \\"bad guys,\\" the introduction of the Ark of the Covenant, the inevitable search for the Holy Grail, and even a quick tease about Noah's Ark are just a few of the many things that have me running to Book 5.  I can see how some readers might become frustrated with the prospect of a long-drawn out story, especially since much of the \\"truth\\" of the events written of here will not become apparent until a later time, but I am perpetually perched right on the end of my seat. If you read up through book three (The Mission) and felt your interests flagging a little bit, I urge you to take a chance on this fourth novel because I think it will more than recapture your earlier interest. Personally, I hope this series never ends.f my seat. If you read up through book three (The Mission) and felt your interests flagging a little bit, I urge you to take a chance on this fourth novel because I think it will more than recapture your earlier interest. Personally, I hope this series never ends.	2002-06-25
1500274:US	53016962	R1CY174PY4BNHA	0664224032	430279424	The Genesis of Perfection: Adam and Eve in Jewish and Christian Imagination	Books	4	46	48	N	N	A difficult but enlightening monograph	I found this to be an enlightening yet difficult read.  The difficulty I blame on my background and not on the author's writing skills.  As a Southern Baptist, I know almost nothing about the beliefs and practices of Judaism and very little of various themes, writings, and rites of the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox religions.  The author relies strongly on sources I am unfamiliar with, and the text does seem more geared toward Catholicism than Protestantism.  It was quite a learning experience for me to be introduced to the Talmud, rabbinical sources, and early Christian church writings not included in my Protestant Bible.  I was rather amazed at the complex arguments and ideas about Adam and Eve in the Jewish and early Christian worlds; the author presented me with many thoughts and ideas that make sense yet had just never occurred to me.  The basic argument I took from this work is that Adam and Eve can only be properly understood in conjunction with the \\"ends\\" of Jewish and Christian goals, which center on the giving of the Torah to the Israelites at Mt. Sinai and in the birth and crucifixion of Jesus Christ, respectively.  While I have seen Christ described as the second Adam, I found the comparison of Eve to the Virgin Mary quite interesting.  There has obviously been much debate among religious scholars about the events and meanings of the Fall and exile from Eden of Adam and Eve, and the author seems to address every thought and suggestion possible in this regard.  He also provided me with interesting information on the rebellion and exile of Satan, drawing largely from sources outside my own religious jurisdiction.  As a Christian, the concept of Original Sin has been an idea I have always accepted without question, and it was interesting to see how the full concept of Original Sin was actually developed by Saint Augustine.  The author helps illustrate his points with discussions of religious artwork such as that of the Sistine Chapel and the illuminating epics of Milton's Paradise Lost and Dante's Inferno.  Overall, I learned a lot from this book, information which I cannot fully digest without further study.  Someone familiar with the Jewish and early Christian doctrines will doubtless find this book a much easier read than I did, but I think all Christians can certainly gain new perspectives on their beliefs in these pages.ing epics of Milton's Paradise Lost and Dante's Inferno.  Overall, I learned a lot from this book, information which I cannot fully digest without further study.  Someone familiar with the Jewish and early Christian doctrines will doubtless find this book a much easier read than I did, but I think all Christians can certainly gain new perspectives on their beliefs in these pages.	2002-06-23
1503744:US	53016962	R17CCXJPQLUEGP	0440223814	594491336	Area 51: The Mission	Books	4	7	7	N	N	This series just keeps getting better	The thrill and adventure of the Area 51 series shows no sign of diminishing in this third novel; so far, this series seems to get even better with each new entry.  That's easier said than done; already the author has thrown together strands of a diverse set of conspiracy theories, touching on the Egyptian Pyramids and ancient sites in MesoAmerica and China, the lost civilizations of Atlantis and Thule, ancient astronauts, life on Mars, an alien invasion, Majestic 12 and other secret government agencies, Nazi scientists, secret alien bases in the world's most inhospitable locations, etc.  The good guys, whose numbers are dwindling with each book, have exposed the secrets of Majestic 12, shuttled all over the planet trying to locate and stabilize ancient alien command centers, and destroyed an alien fleet coming to attack earth.  After basically one day of rest, the situation becomes even more dire and more complicated.  Whole tribes of villagers are dying en masse in the Amazon River basin.  With the help of a Russian operative, presidential scientific advisor Lisa Duncan, Special Forces officer Mike Turcotte, and their allies at Area 51 (strangely running the whole show with virtually no government intervention of any kind) discover that the alien enemies have now unleashed the Black Death (a souped-up bubonic plague with a 100% kill rate) against the population of earth, planning to rescue a few humans who will do their bidding and return them to earth when the rest of the population has died.  In their race to stop the further spread of the virus and to hopefully find a cure or antidote, they are aided as well as stymied and confused by strange individuals of unknown origin as well as unknown loyalties.  This novel leaves many questions unanswered, which only further heightens my desire to pick up the fourth book immediately.<br />In this novel, the story is a little more streamlined, as a large part of the action takes place in the Amazon jungles and underneath an ancient Chinese tomb.  Turcotte has to find the source of the virus in order to identify it, and eventually he (and the world) finds himself in a race to find the Mission--the enemy's hidden bioweapons factory--and a cure for the Black Death.  Other exciting things happen--e.g., a nuclear explosion, a dangerous attempt to link up two space shuttles with the hulk of the alien mothership in orbit.  Enough complexities and twists are injected into the plot to keep it exciting and compelling yet not overly complicated.  The characters aren't very deep, and their personal interactions outside of the job at hand are a little contrived, but the story itself is more than sufficient to maintain the reader's attention and deep interest at all times.n ancient Chinese tomb.  Turcotte has to find the source of the virus in order to identify it, and eventually he (and the world) finds himself in a race to find the Mission--the enemy's hidden bioweapons factory--and a cure for the Black Death.  Other exciting things happen--e.g., a nuclear explosion, a dangerous attempt to link up two space shuttles with the hulk of the alien mothership in orbit.  Enough complexities and twists are injected into the plot to keep it exciting and compelling yet not overly complicated.  The characters aren't very deep, and their personal interactions outside of the job at hand are a little contrived, but the story itself is more than sufficient to maintain the reader's attention and deep interest at all times.	2002-06-20
1505368:US	53016962	R1OORFQ7U1ZHTA	0440223784	242650467	Area 51: The Reply	Books	4	17	20	N	N	The aliens are coming!  The aliens are coming!	This second novel in the Area 51 series is another action-packed, suspenseful read.  The story begins where the first novel ended.  The familiar characters thought their problems would be over once they brought down Majic-12 and succeeded in averting disaster in the form of an alien attack; in fact, their problems have just begun.  The \\"guardian\\" discovered under Easter Island has sent out a message into space, and very soon scientists detect a reply message coming from--ta da, the Cydonia region of Mars.  This story starts a little slow, hampered somewhat by the need for the author to refresh the memories of those having read the first book. The message from Mars says the aliens are coming to earth with peaceful intentions, but Mike Turcotte, Lisa Duncan, Professor Nabinger, and Kelly Reynolds must determine if that is true. New alien sites are being discovered, with the two most important being in an ancient Chinese mountain tomb and in Africa's Great Rift Valley.  Our heroes rush all over the planet, gaining access to the two main alien sites by way of some thrilling commando-raid actions.  They get some assistance from an entirely new secret group called STAAR, a group even Majic-12 knew nothing about.  Racing to get more information, our heroes must determine whether or not the aliens on their way from Mars are indeed the friendly ancient astronauts who helped save the earth thousands of years earlier or if they are members of the rebel group that mutinied against the ancient mission and remain intent on destroying our planet.<br />With this book, the standard type of government conspiracy ideas give way to novel new suggestions and possibilities.  The reader joins the characters in trying to figure out who everyone is, who they are working for, and whether or not their intentions are peaceful.  The addition of a new ultra-secret group beyond Majic-12 is complicated by the fact that the members appear and act differently than normal human beings.  Some readers may not like the final few chapters because the reader is being constantly thrown back and forth between different events, but I felt this did much to add to the suspense of the concluding pages.  I most enjoyed the description of covert forces activities; I have no way of knowing how true to life the author's descriptions are, but they do engross the reader in their details (especially when the inevitable major problems pop up to endanger the missions).  After a slow start, the author really puts his hooks into you by the halfway point, making this a book you don't want to put down.  It doesn't really matter that the whole future of earth is in the hands of a special forces officer, archaeologist, and political appointee of a President who is rarely heard from in the story, or that a lowly reporter has basic carte blanche access to the heart of the ultra-secret Area 51 headquarters.  The author knows how to tell a story, and he continually injects mystery and suspense into a story that could easily have become stale in the hands of a lesser writer.  Two books into the series, the story continues to grow even more interesting and enjoyable.s may not like the final few chapters because the reader is being constantly thrown back and forth between different events, but I felt this did much to add to the suspense of the concluding pages.  I most enjoyed the description of covert forces activities; I have no way of knowing how true to life the author's descriptions are, but they do engross the reader in their details (especially when the inevitable major problems pop up to endanger the missions).  After a slow start, the author really puts his hooks into you by the halfway point, making this a book you don't want to put down.  It doesn't really matter that the whole future of earth is in the hands of a special forces officer, archaeologist, and political appointee of a President who is rarely heard from in the story, or that a lowly reporter has basic carte blanche access to the heart of the ultra-secret Area 51 headquarters.  The author knows how to tell a story, and he continually injects mystery and suspense into a story that could easily have become stale in the hands of a lesser writer.  Two books into the series, the story continues to grow even more interesting and enjoyable.	2002-06-18
1508025:US	53016962	R330PAOGLJY19W	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	20	23	N	N	Herd mentality propaganda	Go ahead, laugh at me and call me a Hem, but I must join the ranks of folks who got very little from this little book.  I certainly know what the author is saying, and I can't deny that developing a good attitude toward change can be helpful, but the simple fact is that change is not always a good thing.  Life is a series of ups and downs, and no amount of visualization and optimism can guarantee that something better can be found just by looking for it.  I read this book because I had seen it mentioned and was curious about it; had a corporation or company I worked for suggested I read this book, I would have been mortified.  The thought of actually having a business meeting to discuss this simplistic book makes me cringe.  It would send a clear message to me that the company wanted to prepare me for bad news or to eliminate criticism in the ranks.  Frankly, I found the story rather silly, and there was nothing there that I had not already heard before.  Rather than promote free thinking, I can see managers dismissing policy questions or even fruitful suggestions from employees--if the company is moving in one direction, but you think an even better plan involves doing the old thing differently, a manager may well just accuse you of resisting change and not even listen to your idea.  The folks who don't embrace change for its own sake fare rather poorly in the author's universe.<br />I cannot recommend this book.  Not only is it very short, but it is two or three times longer than it needs to be because the author excels in redundancy; the repetition of the author's \\"brilliant\\" points also qualifies in my book as a method of indoctrination. The fact that this book is so popular with managers and executives sets off alarms in my mind; this is because the book encourages their underlings to not only do as they say (no matter if they are right or wrong) but to smile while they are doing it.  Expecting a group of employees to read this book and follow its precepts smacks of pied-piper management and herd mentality; the effect I get from the book is one almost antithetical to true individualism and freedom of choice. By all means, look out for yourself and try to plan for the future, but do not betray yourself while doing it.  Just as many people are harmed by implementing bad changes as are helped by responding positively to good changes.  Bad policy decisions deserve criticism, not blind devotion.  Authority should be questioned when it is clearly wrong.  I assure you that the secret of happiness is not to be found in these pages.  This is one rat who will not be following the Pied Piper's music over the cliff.ks of pied-piper management and herd mentality; the effect I get from the book is one almost antithetical to true individualism and freedom of choice. By all means, look out for yourself and try to plan for the future, but do not betray yourself while doing it.  Just as many people are harmed by implementing bad changes as are helped by responding positively to good changes.  Bad policy decisions deserve criticism, not blind devotion.  Authority should be questioned when it is clearly wrong.  I assure you that the secret of happiness is not to be found in these pages.  This is one rat who will not be following the Pied Piper's music over the cliff.	2002-06-16
1508366:US	53016962	R3VBKELUO2LA9N	0440220734	885811913	Area 51	Books	4	40	42	N	N	An action-packed novel (not fact disguised as fiction)	This book is a compelling tale built on a conglomeration of some of the world's most fascinating mysteries and conspiracies .  Those interested in UFOs and government secrets will have no trouble understanding the basic premises, but readers without such a background may have trouble immersing themselves in the story.  In this novel, Majic-12 is the group of individuals working inside the secret government to oversee all matters of alien technology, specifically the one mother ship and nine UFOs which have been found and stashed away at Area 51 in Nevada.  The leader of the group, Gullick, is determined to undertake a test flight of the mothership within the next four days, despite the fact that no one knows how to control it or how it works.  Von Seeckt, a transplanted German scientist \\"acquired\\" by the U.S. in 1942 after taking part in a secret Nazi SS mission that entered the bottom chamber of the Great Pyramid in Egypt (years before the chamber was officially discovered) and took possession of a mysterious, important black box housed in the sealed sarcophagus, is convinced that a flight of the mothership will bring disaster to earth, but Gullick ignores his concerns.  The President has sent his scientific advisor, Dr. Lisa Duncan, to join Majic-12 and find out what is really going on, and she in turn has recruited a Special Forces operative named Turcotte as a mole within Area 51.  Meanwhile, a Brooklyn scientist has managed to decipher some of the prehistorical high runes found in the Great Pyramid, among Mesoamerican ruins, and on Easter Island.  The scientist eventually joins forces with Von Seeckt, Duncan, Turcotte, and a freelance reporter, and the group embarks on a mission to save mankind from an unknown catastrophe.  It is a riveting story, full of action and daring, and makes for an exciting read.  This is important because this is only the first in a series of novels based on these converging storylines.<br />The one weakness I find in the book is probably a result of the author needing to provide background information to those unfamiliar with the sorts of conspiracy theories which have been floating around the UFO community for years.  For instance, I almost fell out of my seat when one of the members of Majic-12 asked what foo fighters were.  Anyone interested in ufology knows these were strange orbs which often flew around both Allied and German warplanes in WWII.  Also, the idea that the President has a representative on the Majic-12 board goes against most speculation that the President himself does not have adequate clearance to even be informed of such a project.  Such plot points are necessary, however, in order to inform any reader of the basics.  This is just a novel, after all.  It is important to note that there are elements of this story that are purely invention, so one should not read this book hoping to discover a UFO conspiracy book cleverly disguised as a novel.  I imagine that the majority of people interested in these Area 51 books will be UFO buffs already, but those who scoff at or know nothing about ufology can still find great enjoyment in this fast-moving, action-packed novel because the author does provide all of the background information you will need in order to understand what all of the action is about.  This isn't literature, but it is certainly a fun read.ably a result of the author needing to provide background information to those unfamiliar with the sorts of conspiracy theories which have been floating around the UFO community for years.  For instance, I almost fell out of my seat when one of the members of Majic-12 asked what foo fighters were.  Anyone interested in ufology knows these were strange orbs which often flew around both Allied and German warplanes in WWII.  Also, the idea that the President has a representative on the Majic-12 board goes against most speculation that the President himself does not have adequate clearance to even be informed of such a project.  Such plot points are necessary, however, in order to inform any reader of the basics.  This is just a novel, after all.  It is important to note that there are elements of this story that are purely invention, so one should not read this book hoping to discover a UFO conspiracy book cleverly disguised as a novel.  I imagine that the majority of people interested in these Area 51 books will be UFO buffs already, but those who scoff at or know nothing about ufology can still find great enjoyment in this fast-moving, action-packed novel because the author does provide all of the background information you will need in order to understand what all of the action is about.  This isn't literature, but it is certainly a fun read.	2002-06-15
1511924:US	53016962	R1LHN4B1UKRC71	0451452313	607805563	Better than Life (Red Dwarf)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Science fiction at its funniest	This is the equally hilarious sequel to Red Dwarf, so you really want to make sure you read the first book before reading this one.  As the novel opens, our heroes--the bumbling yet enterprising David Lister, who is now millions of miles as well as three million years away from the earth he unintentionally left when he got  royally drunk on his 25th birthday, the born loser Arnold Rimmer, whose string of incredibly bad luck in life continues unabated in death, the Cat, a humanoid feline cat with at least eight and a half of his nine lives devoted to his own vanity and self-worship, and Kryten, the mechanoid who takes commitment to service, especially when it involves cleaning things, way too far--are trapped inside the highly addictive (and illegal) VR game called Better Than Life, each enjoying his own brand of subconsciously created paradise.  With their actual bodies wasting away due to lack of nourishment, they must find a way to escape the game and return to reality.  Reality, though, does not welcome them back with open arms.  Among the crises the crew of the Red Dwarf must now face are the virtual death of the onboard computer, an impending collision with a very large planet, the capture of their ship by a black hole, a crash-landing on a planet used as a system-wide garbage dump, time dilations, and even death.<br />This book may be even funnier than the first Red Dwarf novel.  By now, the reader has come to know and \\"love\\" the characters, so the authors can just propel them into one humorous situation after another without wasting time setting up the jokes.  As an added bonus, the characters seem to really evolve emotionally by the end of the book, and we also find out (as if we didn't already know) the major \\"problem\\" each character suffers from (anger, guilt, vanity, cowardice).  Rimmer, though dead, actually shows a nice, thoughtful human side on occasion.  If you were trapped in a room with any of these characters, you would probably be ready to strangle them before too many hours, but the ability to watch their interactions from the safety of your own reality makes for some of the best comedy ever put on paper.  You will laugh out loud at least once, and you will wish the book would never end, especially since no more Red Dwarf novels are forthcoming.  I haven't seen any of the Red Dwarf TV episodes, but I can't imagine they could be any funnier than the books.gle them before too many hours, but the ability to watch their interactions from the safety of your own reality makes for some of the best comedy ever put on paper.  You will laugh out loud at least once, and you will wish the book would never end, especially since no more Red Dwarf novels are forthcoming.  I haven't seen any of the Red Dwarf TV episodes, but I can't imagine they could be any funnier than the books.	2002-06-12
1514212:US	53016962	R2HRU1Q086XXBP	0451452011	915129613	Red Dwarf: Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Utterly, belly-achingly hilarious	Red Dwarf is the funniest science fiction book I have ever read, featuring a cast of unforgettable characters.  First there is Lister; he celebrated his 25th birthday by taking part in a Monopoly-based pub crawl on earth and somehow ended up stuck on Mimas, one of Saturn's moons.  He desperately wants to return to earth but cannot raise the funds; tiring of living inside a storage locker and stealing taxis to earn money, he decides to sign up for service with the Space Corps and jump ship as soon as he is back on his home planet.  First Technician Alfred J. Rimmer is a truly remarkable and hilarious personality.  Rimmer is basically in charge of keeping the vending machines operating on the ship Red Dwarf, and Lister finds himself working under and bunking with this incredibly strange and rather pitiful underachiever.  Rimmer is the proverbial born loser, failing at virtually everything he does.  He desperately wants to pass the astronavigation exam and become an officer, and he works incredibly hard at preparing for the test despite the fact he has already failed it 11 times (actually, two of those times he got an X for unclassified, such as the time he wrote \\"I am a fish\\" 500 times on each answer sheet after panicking and convincing himself he did not actually exist).  Rimmer's preparation consists of establishing incredibly exact, inclusive schedules for studying; the problem with this approach is that his constant revisions of the schedule take up all of his preparation time, and he usually ends up cramming three months' of study into a few hours just before the exam begins.  Lister annoys Rimmer to no end.  As fate would have it, an explosion ends up killing everyone on board Red Dwarf.  Lister, having been put in stasis for smuggling a cat on board, is reawakened by the ship's computer Holly three million years later when the radiation levels have returned to safe levels.  Holly also resurrects the quite dead Rimmer as a hologram, and the fact that he has died does nothing to help Rimmer's attitude.  Lister and Rimmer are soon joined by a highly evolved yet fastidious, incredibly vain feline descendant of the cat Lister originally smuggled on board.  This incredibly strange crew attempts to return to earth, and their efforts are as funny as they are ill-fated.<br />Lister is a simple man just trying to get by in life, wishing for nothing more than a basic, happy family existence such as that of George Bailey in It's A Wonderful Life.  Rimmer's inferiority complex and stubbornness are unmatched..  His failings and pessimism are comically ridiculous yet somehow plausible, and one can't help pitying a man who fails in life, in death, and even in his own fantasies.  I have not seen the Red Dwarf series, so I cannot compare this book to its television counterpart.  I can declare this book hilarious; anyone with a sense of humor (even those who hate science fiction) will, I believe, enjoy this book immensely.  If you read this book apart from its sequel, though, you will be disappointed by the ending because it is not really an ending at all--I would recommend buying the sequel Better Than Life along with Red Dwarf because you will surely want to follow the comical travails of Lister and Rimmer as far and as long as you can.  Only the late Douglas Adams has ever produced such wickedly funny science fiction as Red Dwarf.does nothing to help Rimmer's attitude.  Lister and Rimmer are soon joined by a highly evolved yet fastidious, incredibly vain feline descendant of the cat Lister originally smuggled on board.  This incredibly strange crew attempts to return to earth, and their efforts are as funny as they are ill-fated. <br />Lister is a simple man just trying to get by in life, wishing for nothing more than a basic, happy family existence such as that of George Bailey in It's A Wonderful Life.  Rimmer's inferiority complex and stubbornness are unmatched..  His failings and pessimism are comically ridiculous yet somehow plausible, and one can't help pitying a man who fails in life, in death, and even in his own fantasies.  I have not seen the Red Dwarf series, so I cannot compare this book to its television counterpart.  I can declare this book hilarious; anyone with a sense of humor (even those who hate science fiction) will, I believe, enjoy this book immensely.  If you read this book apart from its sequel, though, you will be disappointed by the ending because it is not really an ending at all--I would recommend buying the sequel Better Than Life along with Red Dwarf because you will surely want to follow the comical travails of Lister and Rimmer as far and as long as you can.  Only the late Douglas Adams has ever produced such wickedly funny science fiction as Red Dwarf.	2002-06-10
1515817:US	53016962	RCCGNJMS1RH50	0942679253	160390877	I Died Laughing: Funeral Education with a Light Touch	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A funny yet useful little book	Death is not a topic many of us enjoy talking about, and as a result many people are unprepared for the business side of death once it strikes close to home.  The underlying goal of this little book is to increase readers' knowledge of death, funerals, and the like.  Thus, there is information on burial vaults, caskets, funeral homes, cremation, etc.; much of this information is useful and interesting.  There are even money-saving tips for families in financial straits.  Surrounding these tips and suggestions, though, are an assortment of humorous remarks and stories: famous last words, cartoons, jokes, funny epitaphs, poems, and recollections.  You will also find \\"A Dying Person's Bill of Rights\\" and--my favorite--a list of suggestions for \\"Putting the 'Fun' Back in Funerals.\\"  This book is in no way irreverent or disrespectful of the dead and those who mourn for them, and there are no religious overtones that might upset certain readers.  This short little book (it can easily be read in half an hour) will certainly not make you an expert on funerals, but there is some good information to be found on the serious pages scattered throughout the book, not least of which is a discussion of the information funeral homes are required by law to give you in writing before you make any buying decision.  The author emphasizes the fact that you are not required to accept everything the funeral director recommends and stresses the importance of reading through the price guidelines and relevant information before making your decision.  No matter how much we deny it, death is a part of life we all must face, and this little book celebrates life through its humor and makes death a little easier for people to consider and talk about.	2002-06-08
1515893:US	53016962	R3RUL8WVVN9LXH	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	121	135	N	N	Be careful what you wish for	The Picture of Dorian Gray is a mesmerizing read dominated by two amazing personalities.  Dorian Gray is certainly interesting, but I was much more impressed by his friend and mentor Lord Henry Wotton.  Dorian is a perfectly nice, well-meaning young man when we first meet him in the studio of the painter Basil Hallward.  Hallward in fact is so drawn to the youth that he draws his greatest inspiration from painting him and just being with him.  It is the influence of Hallward's friend Lord Henry which leads to Gray's downfall.  There are few characters in literature as decadent, witty, and somehow enchanting as Lord Henry.  He is never at a loss for words, fatalistic observations of life and people, sarcastic philosophical musings, and brilliantly devious ideas.  Among his world of social decadents and artistic do-nothings, his charm remains redoubtable and highly sought-after.  Gray immediately falls under his spell, soon devoting himself to living life to its fullest and enjoying his youth and beauty to the utmost.  He solemnly wishes that he could remain young and beautiful forever, that Hallward's exquisite picture of him should bear the marks of age and debauchery rather than himself.  To his surprise and ultimate horror, he finds his wish fulfilled.  Small lines and creases first appear in the portrait, but after he cruelly breaks the heart of an unfortunate young actress who then takes her own life, the first real signs of horror and blood manifest themselves on his portrait.  His love for the ill-fated Sibyl Vane is a sordid, heartbreaking tale, and it marks the culmination of his descent into debauchery.  He frequents opium dens and houses of ill repute, justifying all of his worst actions to himself, while the influence of Lord Henry continues to work its black magic on his soul.  He hides his increasingly grotesque portrait away in an upstairs room, sometimes going up to stare at it and take pleasure in the fact that it rather than he bears the stains of his iniquities.  In time, his obsession with his secret grows, and he is constantly afraid that it will be discovered by someone.  For eighteen years he lives in this manner, moving among the members of his society as a revered figure who magically retains his youth, but eventually he begins to see himself as he really is and to curse the portrait, blaming its magic for his miserable life of ill-begotten pleasures and loss of moral character.  The final pages are well-written, and the climax is eminently satisfying.<br />Exhibiting the undeniable influence of the French Decadence movement of the late 19th century, this wonderful novel serves as a morality play of sorts.  One can understand why its unique nature upset a British society emerging from the social constraints of Victorianism, but this reader is hard pressed to see why this novel proved so damaging to Wilde's eventual imprisonment and punishment.  Dorian Gray is no hero, nor does his ultimate internal struggles and yearnings for rebirth inspire one to engage in the sort of life he himself eventually came to regret.  The only \\"dangerous\\" character in this novel is Lord Henry; his delight in working his evil influence on others as a type of moral experiment and the silver-tongued charm he exploits to aid him in such misbegotten quests have the potential to do harm to a vulnerable mind such as that of Dorian Gray.  Lord Henry's evil genius makes him much more interesting than his disciple Dorian Gray.  By today's standards, this book is not shocking, and indeed it is much more dangerous to censor work such as this than it is to read it.  This book in eminently quotable, and it still manages to cast a magical spell over readers of this day and age.  Quite simply, The Picture of Dorian Gray deserves a place on the shelf of the world's greatest literature.is iniquities.  In time, his obsession with his secret grows, and he is constantly afraid that it will be discovered by someone.  For eighteen years he lives in this manner, moving among the members of his society as a revered figure who magically retains his youth, but eventually he begins to see himself as he really is and to curse the portrait, blaming its magic for his miserable life of ill-begotten pleasures and loss of moral character.  The final pages are well-written, and the climax is eminently satisfying. <br />Exhibiting the undeniable influence of the French Decadence movement of the late 19th century, this wonderful novel serves as a morality play of sorts.  One can understand why its unique nature upset a British society emerging from the social constraints of Victorianism, but this reader is hard pressed to see why this novel proved so damaging to Wilde's eventual imprisonment and punishment.  Dorian Gray is no hero, nor does his ultimate internal struggles and yearnings for rebirth inspire one to engage in the sort of life he himself eventually came to regret.  The only \\"dangerous\\" character in this novel is Lord Henry; his delight in working his evil influence on others as a type of moral experiment and the silver-tongued charm he exploits to aid him in such misbegotten quests have the potential to do harm to a vulnerable mind such as that of Dorian Gray.  Lord Henry's evil genius makes him much more interesting than his disciple Dorian Gray.  By today's standards, this book is not shocking, and indeed it is much more dangerous to censor work such as this than it is to read it.  This book in eminently quotable, and it still manages to cast a magical spell over readers of this day and age.  Quite simply, The Picture of Dorian Gray deserves a place on the shelf of the world's greatest literature.	2002-06-08
1516901:US	53016962	R19PPUB4V35G34	0895870649	182868293	Mountain Ghost Stories and Curious Tales of Western North Carolina	Books	3	8	9	N	N	I Don't See Dead People	Frankly, I was somewhat disappointed by this book.  I picked it up because I am interested in ghosts and because I live just east of the foothills in western North Carolina.  I had also enjoyed reading the authors' book Ghost Dogs of the South.  Despite the title of this book, the vast majority of the stories collected here have nothing to do with ghosts, and no story deals with a traditional type of haunting.  What these stories do contain are tidbits of mountain folklore, local history, and Indian traditions and beliefs.  The book is not bad in and of itself; the problem is that this reader was expecting something quite different from what he found.  Peculiarities of the mountain environment are the catalysts for many of these tales, and I believe that readers unfamiliar with the North Carolina mountains will probably be more disappointed than I was. You don't need to have visited Clingman's Dome, Blowing Rock, or Grandfather Mountain to enjoy these tales, but having some  personal knowledge of the area is certainly a plus for the reader.<br />Mountain Ghost Stories is a pretty short book, coming in at just over 100 pages.  I would have loved to see pictures of some of the locations mentioned, but there are none.  If you are interested in mountain folklore, Indian myths/traditions, or North Carolina history, you might find a quick wade in this pool enjoyable.  If you are looking for traditional ghost stories, you would do well to bypass this little book altogether.	2002-06-07
1523210:US	53016962	R3NNKWY2VUAWFJ	019283374X	718203903	Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass: And What Alice Found There (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Quite charming, really	I must confess I had never read the account of Alice's adventures before.  As an adult, though, I found the two books to be quite charming and fun to read.  Alice's Adventures In Wonderland is the much more enjoyable tale of the two, perhaps because so much of it was already familiar to me as a part of popular culture.  Through the Looking Glass seemed to me to be much more contrived and less magical.  I found myself trying to puzzle out hidden messages and motifs in the latter work, while I basically just read the Wonderland story for pure enjoyment.  The latter tale also seemed to fall apart at the seams as it began to approach its conclusion.  Without rereading the books,  I have trouble seeing all of the complex and satirical things mentioned by academic types (such as a critique of Victorian society and contemporary educational methods), nor does the whole chess game motif make complete sense to me, although the workings of the game apparently pleased the mathematician in Carroll's alter-ego enough that he attempts to explain it at the start of Through the Looking Glass.<br />It was a treat to see the original illustrations of John Tenniel interspersed throughout both stories, despite the fact that Alice appears a good bit more sullen than I envision her in my own mind.  It was also good to be formally introduced to such well-known entities as the Cheshire Cat, although Humpty Dumpty certainly comes across as a rather taciturn figure.  For those of you who love puns, Lewis Carroll offers you a gold mine of them, although I doubt that many children will actually understand very many of them until they reach an age in which they will probably reject a reading of Carroll as \\"baby stuff.\\"  I'm no expert on children's literature (or on children, for that matter), but the story of Alice's adventures would seem to offer a free ticket to an enticing fantasy world for youngsters and a delightfully quaint vacation spot for adult readers.	2002-06-02
1523338:US	53016962	RGLJV0J1XIIMK	0722178573	531214602	City (Sphere science fiction)	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Highly original, thought-provoking science fiction	City is great science fiction, a social commentary of sorts told in a unique and highly effective manner.  The tales collected in this book are the myths that have been told by generation after generation of Dogs.  Dog scholars debate their origin, and only Tige is so bold as to argue that Man ever truly existed.  The majority argument makes sense--man was a highly illogical creature, too selfish and materialistic to ever survive long enough to form a lasting, advanced culture.  These stories themselves basically tell the story of the Webster family, a remarkable family whose genealogical line was gifted with genius yet cursed with failures.  As the story goes, humans abandoned the cities and sought a bucolic lifestyle, shedding the old tendencies to huddle together in cities for protection.  They explored the solar system, and in time the majority of the population sought an alien bliss in the form of Jupiter's native life forms.  One Webster had a vision of two civilizations, man and dog, working together to plot a new future--he utilized deft surgical means to enable dogs to speak, he designed special lenses to allow dogs to see as men do, and he designed robots to aid dogs by serving as their hands.  Over the years, man's society continued to break down, and eventually a Webster manages to shut off man from the world at large, determined to let the dogs create a new earth free of man's dangerous ideas and influences.  Jenkins, the faithful robot servant of the Websters, oversees the dogs' evolution.  Unfortunately, the Dog world was not isolated from a handful of human beings after all, and eventually a man builds a bow and arrow and kills a fellow creature, thus upsetting the balance of life all over again.  There are many more facets of the story than I have just mentioned, but one central point that seems to emerge from the stories is that man is inherently &quot;bad.&quot;  Jenkins had tried very hard to erase the memories of the straggling number of humans living in the era of the Dogs, and the fact that a man eventually killed a fellow creature means that man's troubles did not arise from our remote ancestors' taking a wrong path on the road to civilization but that in fact the fault lies in fact finds an inherent flaw in man's social makeup.  Reading this rich, multi-layered tale, one can certainly understand why modern Dogs simply cannot believe that such a creature as Man ever existed.<br />I enjoyed this book tremendously.  The ending did not provide a sense of closure, but such a work of fiction as this would be hard to wrap up tightly with no loose ends.  Simak presents a valuable viewpoint on society and mankind in general, and the unique viewpoint offered through the eyes of the Dogs serves to highlight the points Simak makes.  My favorite part of the book is the section of notes before each tale, wherein we learn about the debate among Dog scholars as to whether or not these stories have any basis in fact, with the stubborn Tige dissenting from the majority opinion of Bouncer, Rover, and others that these are just myths and legends with no basis in fact, that Man is effectively the anti-Dog and was created by ancient storytellers for satirical or educational purposes.  From now on, when I hear someone say the world is going to the dogs, I will think to myself that such a happenstance would not really be that bad, all things considered.living in the era of the Dogs, and the fact that a man eventually killed a fellow creature means that man's troubles did not arise from our remote ancestors' taking a wrong path on the road to civilization but that in fact the fault lies in fact finds an inherent flaw in man's social makeup.  Reading this rich, multi-layered tale, one can certainly understand why modern Dogs simply cannot believe that such a creature as Man ever existed.  <br />I enjoyed this book tremendously.  The ending did not provide a sense of closure, but such a work of fiction as this would be hard to wrap up tightly with no loose ends.  Simak presents a valuable viewpoint on society and mankind in general, and the unique viewpoint offered through the eyes of the Dogs serves to highlight the points Simak makes.  My favorite part of the book is the section of notes before each tale, wherein we learn about the debate among Dog scholars as to whether or not these stories have any basis in fact, with the stubborn Tige dissenting from the majority opinion of Bouncer, Rover, and others that these are just myths and legends with no basis in fact, that Man is effectively the anti-Dog and was created by ancient storytellers for satirical or educational purposes.  From now on, when I hear someone say the world is going to the dogs, I will think to myself that such a happenstance would not really be that bad, all things considered.	2002-06-02
1525266:US	53016962	R3U0DD4JLWLPEP	0195027280	514836389	Puritans and Adventurers: Change and Persistence in Early America	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A landmark achievement in the field of colonial history	With this book, T. H. Breen presents a valuably, insightful study of colonial Virginia and the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the 17th century.  Many historians have assumed that all early settlers shared a common set of ideas (&quot;cultural baggage&quot;), and this oversweeping notion has hindered our efforts to learn about the first English Americans.  Breen's thesis hinges around a notion of change and persistence, not only between the two colonies but among sections within each colony.  He does a wonderful job comparing and contrasting the Virginia and Massachusetts colonies, explaining how the two areas developed so differently from one another and yet eventually came together in the pursuit of an America independent of Britain.  In this collection of scholarly essays, Breen breathes new life into colonial American history and strikingly points the way for further research.<br />Breen devotes the first half of the book to Massachusetts Bay.  Combing the incomplete yet important records of who the settlers were, where they came from, and why they perhaps chose to emigrate from England, Breen finds that the most widespread influence on these men and women was the foolish endeavor of the Stuart king to monopolize control over government, religion, and local custom.  Their emigration to Massachusetts was a conservative reaction, for they wanted to recreate their traditional societies and live as their ancestors had lived.  Often, families from the same English community came over together, and they were largely free men and women with few if any servants.  Many were middling artisans who had to learn the ways of farming in America, but the Bay colonists from the very start worked together as a community.  Virginia, on the other hand, was settled by adventurers seeking wealth; distrustful of their fellow men, these colonists scattered themselves on isolated farms and plantations.  There was no central community, and settlers reacted heatedly to the slightest hints of centralization.  Even the massacre of hundreds of settlers by Indians in 1622 failed to encourage mutual cooperation among these people.  Over time, indentured servants came willfully and sometimes by coercion, but their spirits were broken upon arriving in the undisciplined, hopeless Virginia colony  To a large degree, the dregs of English society came to Virginia as a last resort, exacerbating the problems experienced by Virginians for the first 100 years of the colony's existence.  Virginia may have failed altogether had it not been for the discovery of tobacco.  Eventually, when significant numbers of slaves were brought in to the work the plantations, only then did any type of social organization take root in Virginia.<br />Massachusetts settlers' were predominantly Puritan, community-oriented, and industrious; Virginia's settlers were adventurers seeking overnight wealth--largely nonreligious, fiercely individualistic, and highly competitive.  While Massachusetts did not change much in the 17th century due to its success from the start, the culture further developed its demand for local control of all aspects of community life; Virginians lived day to day, learning nothing from past failures over its first century of existence.  The colony experienced one drastic change after another, including a violent schism between the more genteel settlers in the form of Bacons' Rebellion.  After a century of failures, the employment of slave labor finally allowed for the establishment of a community of sorts among planters and a virtual end to class struggle among white men.  The values of the past influenced both colonial peoples in the 18th century, and commitments to local control and individual liberties helped bring these once-divergent peoples together under the banner of a newly created United States of America in 1776.<br />This book deserves a spot among the most useful studies of early colonial history.  Breen examines all potential factors to explain culturalchange and development in the two colonies.  Anyone interested in the real story of American colonization should add Puritans and Adventurers to his/her essential reading list.ural change and development in the two colonies.  Anyone interested in the real story of American colonization should add Puritans and Adventurers to his/her essential reading list.	2002-05-31
1531148:US	53016962	R23D37QUYMF2AA	0525934898	981066730	The Portable Curmudgeon Redux	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A welcome addition to any grouch's library	Those among us who are generally grouchy and pessimistic can find solace and support in the pages of this book.  Indeed, the Portable Curmudgeon Redux is a celebration of the art of complaining.  You don't have to be a misanthrope to enjoy the humor, but eternally happy, effervescent souls will find little reason to even glance at these pages.  This is the province of realism, satire, rapier wit, irritability, and--above all--humor; this book really doesn't take itself too seriously.  The book offers a dictionary of quotations for such selected words and concepts as love, marriage, life, lawyers, and advertising, the jewels of wisdom coming from such individuals as Oscar Wilde, Mark Twain, and H. L. Mencken.  Several specific topics (such as American Presidents, music, and fine art) are singled out for special attention.  There are also interviews with personalities such as P.J. O'Rourke, Larry Gelbart, Florence King, and Carrie Fisher.  No subject is taboo or safe from the skewering stick of sarcasm, and many of the statements are thought-provoking or just plain funny enough to make special note of.  Amuse your friends or pester your enemies with curmudeonly quotes on all manner of subjects.	2002-05-26
1532923:US	53016962	R211JHRA2C0Y93	0393034925	951786802	The Oldest Dead White European Males and Other Reflections on the Classics	Books	4	37	40	N	N	An eloquent defense of classical studies	Dr. Knox dares to stand up for the ancient Greeks and their pivotal influence on Western society in this rather short collection of three essays.  His message is largely a response to the modern calls from multiculturalists and \\"radical feminists\\" downplaying or even condemning the importance of the humanities in today's academic world.  The overspecialization that is the inevitable product of multiculturalism sees only the faults in ancient Greek society--slavery, a limited and inferior role for women, the crudities of ritual sacrifice, an undemocratic democracy, etc..  Knox acknowledges the validity of such criticism, but he argues cogently that Greek culture and its pervading influence on the West cannot be examined solely through a narrow lens.  Some modern critics have even gone so far as to label ancient Greek society a reactionary force enforcing conformity.  This, as Knox explains very well, is ludicrous.  The study of the classics has long been the wellspring from which innovative, radical, and even subversive  new ideas emerge. Certainly, ancient Greek society was flawed in certain ways, but the fact remains that this culture bequeathed us the very foundations of our politics, philosophy, drama, rhetoric, science, etc.  The very playing field upon which modern critics denigrate the influence of the ancient Greeks was essentially constructed by their long-dead opponents.<br />I was most impressed by Knox's analysis of the recent history of the humanities in Western culture.  Until the last century, education was largely an aristocratic privilege.  The Industrial Revolution set in motion a recomposition of society, one that now dwells more and more on \\"practical\\" education; it is this social metamorphosis that has done much to call into question the role of the humanities in education today.  Do not throw out the baby with the bath water, Knox warns.  The world we have created reflects the vast influence of the ancient Greeks, but more importantly, that influence is even still working actively to challenge modern thinkers.  While we have learned a great deal from the culture of the oldest dead white Europeans, we yet have much more to learn from them.  Even should the humanities and classical studies be suppressed tomorrow, their value, beauty, and utility are such that they would soon return to the forefront of intellectual and academic studies despite the wishes of modern critics.<br />I must say that I was disturbed by the widespread disdain for the history of \\"dead white guys\\" while immersed in my own postgraduate studies.  Multiculturalism and the new social history represents a noble effort to tell the stories of men and women who have been voiceless until now, but the end result threatens to pigeon-hole and fragment academia.  The study of the classics provides an education in democracy and citizenship; herein lies the secret of its eternally important influence.  I rejoice in reading such an outspoken defense of the importance of the humanities, and I believe all traditionalists will admire and be inspired by the essays collected here.uence is even still working actively to challenge modern thinkers.  While we have learned a great deal from the culture of the oldest dead white Europeans, we yet have much more to learn from them.  Even should the humanities and classical studies be suppressed tomorrow, their value, beauty, and utility are such that they would soon return to the forefront of intellectual and academic studies despite the wishes of modern critics.<br />I must say that I was disturbed by the widespread disdain for the history of \\"dead white guys\\" while immersed in my own postgraduate studies.  Multiculturalism and the new social history represents a noble effort to tell the stories of men and women who have been voiceless until now, but the end result threatens to pigeon-hole and fragment academia.  The study of the classics provides an education in democracy and citizenship; herein lies the secret of its eternally important influence.  I rejoice in reading such an outspoken defense of the importance of the humanities, and I believe all traditionalists will admire and be inspired by the essays collected here.	2002-05-24
1534490:US	53016962	R1FHT89A7N3K26	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Singularly fascinating	Featuring a storyline seemingly made for Hollywood, this intriguing exposition of, as the subtitle says, murder, insanity, and the making of the Oxford English Dictionary, is one of those rare tales that literally grabs the reader and forces its words down his throat with a most pleasurable force.  I am ashamed to admit that I, a self-described scholar, had no idea of the unfathomable knowledge incorporated into the acclaimed Oxford English Dictionary nor  the sheer effort involved in its creation.  My admiration for James Murray, the principal editor, and everyone else involved with a bibliographic achievement akin to the building of the Great Pyramid, is unbounded.  The story of the seventy-year project to write the greatest dictionary of the English language is fantastic by itself.  When the story of the dictionary's most ardent and mysterious contributor is added to the mix, the story becomes almost unbelievable.<br />William Chester Minor, an American doctor, became perhaps the most helpful contributor to the editors of the burgeoning Oxford English Dictionary.  Employing a unique, thorough method in his indefatigable efforts, he won the great admiration and affinity of Murray and became intricately involved with the project.  Murray envisioned this man as a medical man of means, surrounded by shelves of books from which he drew his information and nursed his affinity for lexicographical efforts.  Dr. Minor, as it turns out, was a man of leisure, possessed of a significant library of books, and intellectually gifted.  He was also a certifiably insane murderer.  Locked inside an insane asylum, he had nothing but time on his hands, and he used twenty years of that time to send thousands and thousands of references to Dr. Murray's editorial staff.  In some ways, Dr. Minor's life was far from bad; while he was in an asylum, he was allowed two rooms, one of which he used as a study; he was allowed to purchase books and other luxuries, communicate with anyone in the outside world, hire a fellow inmate as a servant, and enjoy walks inside the grounds of the asylum complex.  Despite the liberties allowed him, though, he suffered terribly from his mental afflictions.  He feared that Irishmen, pygmies, and other persons crept into his room at night, defacing his possessions, trying to poison him, forcing him to commit lewd, indecent acts with men, women, and children.  Clearly, he was insane and remained so throughout his life.  His crime was murder, but he felt great remorse for his sin and even struck up a friendship with the widow of the man he had killed.  All of these facts were not known by James Murray until years after his professional association with the mysterious Dr. Minor began, nor did the professional relationship end once the truth was discovered.<br />The author relates a romanticized tale of Murray's discovery of Dr. Minor's condition, and then debunks the myth by giving the real story, one no less fascinating in its truth.  The story of his friendship with poor Dr. Minor through the ensuing years is rather touching.  It becomes all but impossible to admire and sympathize with this man despite the state of his mind and the fact that he was a murderer.  I will not reveal the most shocking part of Dr. Minor's story here, but it is a rather striking occurrence, I can assure you.<br />I loved this book.  The story of the dictionary's creation was almost as fascinating as the incredible tale of Dr. Minor.  The author does indulge his own obvious affinity for lexicography by delving into the complex definitions and histories of certain words early on, but this can be forgiven in that it represents the type of work James Murray devoted his life to in service to the Oxford English Dictionary.  I also found myself wishing a time or two that the author would refrain from describing aspects of Minor's life through the window of his own imagination, but such passages take nothing away from a story that seems to have a life ofits own and almost begs to be told.fe of its own and almost begs to be told.	2002-05-23
1536252:US	53016962	R4WMMXH2PVROE	0807842583	250917500	Roots of Conflict: British Armed Forces and Colonial Americans, 1677-1763	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Makes me wonder why I'm not writing this in French	This is an eye-opening study of the relations between colonial Americans and British regular troops and Royal Navy seamen in the century preceding the flashpoint of the American Revolution.  Relying heavily on diary entries, court records, newspaper accounts, and other primary source material, Leach describes a tumultuous relationship between provincials and redcoats that started badly and continued to grow worse throughout the eighteenth century.  Even in war time, the relationship often broke down.  Colonists viewed a standing army as a potentially repressive threat to liberty, even when such troops were sent ostensibly to protect them.  Redcoats usually made unfavorable first impressions among the populace, demanding privileges the colonists were unwilling to grant, while the impressment of provincial residents caused great consternation up and down the American seaboard.  Colonial resistance was met with hostile words, outright threats, and arrogant behavior by many British regulars.  Forced to pay inflated prices for supplies or to confiscate what they needed, the British saw the colonists as greedy, lazy, and unpatriotic.  For their part, colonists saw the British soldiers as arrogant, demanding, and unconcerned with colonial interests and prosperity altogether.  When the two sides did join forces in battle, such as at the siege of Louisburg, the entire campaign revolved around recriminatory charges on both sides.  The redcoats in particular looked down on their American allies as sloppy, unprofessional, and noncooperative, while the colonists seethed over the fact that British rank superceded their own.  All of this was complicated by the fact that controversies between royal governors and general assemblies, as well as intercolonial rivalries, also led to problems which the British troops failed to understand. The king and Parliament in Britain did little to help matters, and their failure to specify jurisdiction and chains of command in the American setting led to further confusion and controversy.<br />By 1763, it is easy to see a deeply ingrained resentment between redcoats and colonists.  While this certainly contributed to the eventual declaration of independence and the British response, this would still seem to be a secondary influence compared to matters of natural rights, taxation fairness, and larger political/economic factors.  The disdain expressed by professional British soldiers and sailors for their disorganized, unpolished, amateur American counterparts may well have led them to underestimate the fighting prowess of the Americans; militiamen, for their part, had to be encouraged by the fact that their wilderness fighting skills gave them a distinct advantage over the redcoats' European formation style of fighting.  More importantly, a shared and pervasive resentment of British regulars was an important unifying factor among all of the colonies by the eve of the revolution.  Given the history of joint cooperation and continual conflict between the British and Americans, it is a wonder that British colonial control lasted as long as it did and that English control of the colonies was never lost to the French.  While Leach may overestimate the importance of this matter of military relations in explaining the origins of the Revolutionary War, the relatively unknown history revealed in these pages is both fascinating and disturbing.led to further confusion and controversy.  <br />By 1763, it is easy to see a deeply ingrained resentment between redcoats and colonists.  While this certainly contributed to the eventual declaration of independence and the British response, this would still seem to be a secondary influence compared to matters of natural rights, taxation fairness, and larger political/economic factors.  The disdain expressed by professional British soldiers and sailors for their disorganized, unpolished, amateur American counterparts may well have led them to underestimate the fighting prowess of the Americans; militiamen, for their part, had to be encouraged by the fact that their wilderness fighting skills gave them a distinct advantage over the redcoats' European formation style of fighting.  More importantly, a shared and pervasive resentment of British regulars was an important unifying factor among all of the colonies by the eve of the revolution.   Given the history of joint cooperation and continual conflict between the British and Americans, it is a wonder that British colonial control lasted as long as it did and that English control of the colonies was never lost to the French.  While Leach may overestimate the importance of this matter of military relations in explaining the origins of the Revolutionary War, the relatively unknown history revealed in these pages is both fascinating and disturbing.	2002-05-21
1538838:US	53016962	R2SOF4N9MO2SR8	0226537579	952445961	The Birth of the Republic, 1763-89 (The Chicago History of American Civilization)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The basic facts of the American Revolution explained	Originally published in 1956 and revised in 1977, this book is probably familiar to a couple of generations of college students.  This may well be the most accessible overview of the formative history of America.  As an overview, of course, it does not go into great detail about the myriad of topics debated by historians still today, but it does hit most of the predominant features of the Revolutionary story.  Morgan builds his work around the premise that the Founding Fathers did indeed operate on principle in building a new nation and that the struggle eventually framed itself as a pursuit of equality among all men.  He admits that many of the decisions made by the leaders of the Revolution did equate to economic or property gains for themselves, but he argues that this is not contradictory at all with a commitment to liberty because liberty in  the 18th century essentially hinged on land ownership.  He also rationalizes the contradiction of slavery's continued existence being incorporated into the Constitution by arguing that the convention delegates acted out of urgent concern for the future of a government in its death throes at the hands of a powerless Congress as set up by the Articles of Confederation--without such compromise, the important new Constitution could not have been ratified by a sufficient number of states before the young nation collapsed at the feet of the British and Spanish.<br />Morgan first examines the increasingly rocky relationship between the English Parliament and the colonies--specifically, the debate over taxation and infringement of liberties that led up to the declaration of independence.  He devotes a few pages to the war but does not delve very deeply into military matters.  Morgan does an excellent job explaining why the Articles of Confederation failed and how the problems of that system were widely recognized, frankly debated, and resolved in the creation of a new national government established upon the bedrock of a new federal Constitution.<br />Aside from Morgan's excellent treatment of the birth of the American republic, this book also features the texts of the Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation, and federal Constitution; a  timeline of important events; and a pretty expansive discussion of source materials published before 1977.  In sum, this book is ideal for anyone just wanting to learn or review the pivotal events surrounding the creation of the United States without having to sift through scholarly criticisms and debates of important yet secondary aspects of the story.eral Constitution.  <br />Aside from Morgan's excellent treatment of the birth of the American republic, this book also features the texts of the Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation, and federal Constitution; a  timeline of important events; and a pretty expansive discussion of source materials published before 1977.  In sum, this book is ideal for anyone just wanting to learn or review the pivotal events surrounding the creation of the United States without having to sift through scholarly criticisms and debates of important yet secondary aspects of the story.	2002-05-19
1540359:US	53016962	R1KMJZV7JW2E24	0801485959	82712682	The New Empire: An Interpretation of American Expansion 1860-1898 (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A penetrating study of a forgotten yet crucial era	This book, written almost forty years ago, offers an important, fact-filled overview of a very important era in American history, one that is largely forgotten today.  The New Empire does a more than credible job of filling in the huge gaps in our collective history of 1865-1898, and it turns out that something indeed happened between Reconstruction and the Spanish-American War.  First, LaFeber provides a worthy overview of American expansion in these years.  Next, he describes the development of expansionist ideas by examining critical policy makers and pundits such as Fredrick Jackson Turner, Henry Adams, and Alfred Thayer Mahan.  Finally, he delves into the history of events and policy decisions chronologically.  While his information on the 1870s and 1880s is good, it mostly serves as a springboard for his assessment of expansion and commercial imperialism in the 1890s.  The final decade of the nineteenth century is a crucial time in American history.  Wracked with the Panic of 1893 and the terrible depression of the following years, America first stepped out on to the world stage, largely in an effort to protect the very viability of the nation from labor unrest and anarchy.  LaFeber describes all of the international issues the U.S. addressed in this era: revolutions in Latin America (and America's steadfast enforcement of the Monroe Doctrine), the strong push by both businesses and/or government for foreign markets, the question of annexation of Hawaii, the Philippines, and Cuba., and the fluid relations between America and the European powers.  The depression of the 1890s convinced many influential men that America could not survive economically without developing new commercial frontiers in which to unload its surplus agriculture and, in particular, manufactures.  Antiannexationist voices were muted by the late 1890s; the only debate was one of annexation vs the establishment of protectorate status to the likes of Hawaii and the Philippines.<br />LaFeber contends that economic issues largely explain the development of America's new imperial policy.  This is argued most forcefully in his investigation of the origins of the Spanish-American War.  The most important economic issues at the time were the Cuban revolution, the dangers of losing access to Chinese markets due to the machinations of countries such as Germany and Russia, the establishment of defensively important outposts in the Far East, and the construction of an isthmian canal in Latin America.  He does a wonderful job of describing the wavering opinions of policy makers and businessmen in the 1890s and of America's reorganization of political alliances with the European powers, Russia, and Japan.  He makes a forceful argument for his economic explanation of the war with Spain in 1898.  McKinley was not alone in trying to avoid war, but he and many other leaders came to realize that America could not compete economically without establishing foreign markets and that stability and guaranteed access to such markets would require annexation of strategic areas and the development of a strong navy with which to secure and maintain access to foreign ports.<br />This book is a wonderful source of information on American foreign policy from 1865 to 1898.  It is rather easy to point to the Spanish-American War as the herald of America's transformation from isolationism to globalism, but LaFeber proves that the U.S. began to aggressively pursue a policy of commercial imperialism in the mid-1890s.  This is not an all-inclusive history, however.  It can be argued that LaFeber relies too intently on economics in his description of America's evolving foreign policy.  This is true to some extent, but he does not dismiss other factors in choosing to concentrate on economics.  All in all, I would recommend this book wholeheartedly.  It is enlightening to penetrate the veil of these forgotten years to see how a progression of events in and outside America set the stage for America's ardent stride into the role of global and commercial superpower.  Those who begin their stories of American commercial and diplomatic expansion with the Spanish-American War and the introduction of the Open Door Notes would do well to read The New Empire and follow the true beginnings of the national transformation back into the 1890s.America's ardent stride into the role of global and commercial superpower.  Those who begin their stories of American commercial and diplomatic expansion with the Spanish-American War and the introduction of the Open Door Notes would do well to read The New Empire and follow the true beginnings of the national transformation back into the 1890s.	2002-05-17
1548957:US	53016962	R2MQ9DRJCFDZE9	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The ugly reality of war	This remarkable novel conveys the true face of war in ways that no memoirs, no academic monographs, and no movies can.  There is no romance in war, only mud, blood, starvation, and death.  World War I was the war to end all wars, and it is quite appropriate that the Great War is the setting of this novel.  Any idealism was quickly torn asunder by month after month, year after year of trench warfare.  This is the story of one German soldier, a boy who was talked into joining the German army along with all of his classmates.  At the front lines, Paul Baumer becomes a soldier.  He and his buddies become primitive and animalistic because it is the only way to survive in that environment; thoughts of home or \\"the war\\" deprive them of the instincts they must rely on to avoid being killed.  Baumer is philosophical enough to realize that he has essentially died inside, that every member of his generation has died spiritually if not physically and been robbed of a future.  His trips home are perhaps the most painful days he spends; his family is living in poverty and his mother is dying of cancer.  The emotions and feelings he takes back with him to the front are dangerous because they distract him.  As for the fighting, the men seem to have no reason for being there.  They speak of the fact that the enemy is just like them, young and scared.  The French are fighting and believe that their cause is right, just as the Germans are.  When he is guarding Russian prisoners, he sees them as men just like himself.  There is a noticeable absence of commanders in the novel.  What middling superior officers there are come across as cruel, cowardly pretenders.  Himmelstoss, the \\"drill sergeant\\" type who trained these men to fight is a sickeningly cruel man who deserves the revenge the men are able to exact upon him when he finds himself sent to the front.  When the Kaiser comes to review the troops, the men cannot understand why he let the war happen--after all, he supposedly did not want war, the German people did not want war, the French did not want war, yet there is war.<br />Remarque pulls no punches in describing man's inhumanity to man.  The mud, the lice, the rats, the blood and gore, the gas attacks--that is the war as described here.  At one point early on, Baumer dives for cover in a graveyard of recently buried comrades; as the bombardment continues unabated, he scrambles under cover and then discovers the cover is a shattered coffin.  At the front, the dead are killed over and over again.  At one point, he passes a scene in which bodies have been blown apart, with parts hanging from trees all around.  Forced to take shelter in a shell hole, Baumer kills a foreign soldier who falls into the hole with him; the man does not die quickly, and the experience is a revealing, emotional one as Baumer tries to help the man stay alive and then agonizes over the family this man will not come home to.  For me, though, the most poignant scene in the novel comes early on when, in the wake of a heavy bombardment, the surviving men are all but driven mad by the sound of wounded horses.  The cry of the horses, some of whom run and stumble around dragging their intestines on the ground, are more than the men can bear.  Men fight wars; it is cruel to bring horses into the conflict, the men declare.  It is a long, painful scene finally ended by the shots that end the horses' suffering.<br />These pages contain the reality of war; as such, some will be bothered if not sickened by some sections of the story.  As a conservative \\"hawk\\" who has never experienced anything along these lines, it is very good and useful for me to read this book.  Remarque's purpose in writing this book was to tell future generations how horrible war is and how it must be avoided at all costs if possible.  The men who survive such an ordeal are dead inside; in Remarque's case, an entire generation of Europeans (and Americans) died and suffered; those that returned were not the same men who went away to fight.  If everyone read this novel, war would not be a constant affliction on humanity.e men who went away to fight.  If everyone read this novel, war would not be a constant affliction on humanity.	2002-05-10
1551212:US	53016962	RFYW1262JPRTT	0140441123	177981013	Prometheus Bound and Other Plays: Prometheus Bound, The Suppliants, Seven Against Thebes, The Persians	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Old yet ageless tragedy by "the other Greek tragedian"	In life and death, Aeschylus is overshadowed by Sophocles.  The most tragic thing about Aeschylus is the fact that the great majority of his work was lost in the mists of time.  Three of these plays are the only surviving members of three different trilogies.  The Suppliants is the conclusion of Aeschylus' own Oedipus trilogy, focusing on the final battle of the twice-cursed sons of Oedipus.  Not only was this play overshadowed by Sophocles' Antigone, the final few pages are apparently spurious; someone a half century after it was written felt compelled to add Antigone and Ismene to the action, countering the writer's original presentation of the tragedy.  The Persians is interesting because it is based on real history, namely the routing of the Persian army by the Athenians at Salamis.  Eight years are all that separate the battle and Aeschylus' dramatization of it.<br />I must say that tragedy is the right word for these plays.  I would dub them \\"poor me\\" dramas.  In each case, one or more characters suffers an ignominious fate and bemoans his/her/their  lot in life, sometimes cursing the gods to boot.  In Prometheus Bound, the giant Prometheus has been chained to a rock on a mountainside as divine punishment for stealing fire from Hephaestas and giving it to humans.  Prometheus is proudly defiant and has a word or two to say to just about every man and god he is exposed to.  The Persians must have been received very well by the Athenians because it casts Persia and her king Xerxes in a pitiful light.  When a long-overdue messenger arrives home with word that the Persian army has been decimated, the whole community wails and mourns their fate; when the defeated Xerxes arrives, he takes the suffering to yet another level, his pride destroyed and replaced with self-loathing and defeatism.  Seven Against Thebes details the attack by Polyneices and his followers on his brother Eteocles and the city of Thebes.  While much of the play consists of the naming of the opposing champions to lead the fight at each gate, I was most interested in the dialogue between the chorus of Theban women and Eteocles.  The women rush in fright to the statues of the gods, pleading for mercy and grieving over their fate.  Eteocles is offended by their defeatist words, saying such talk will spread doubt and fear among the city's defenders and is an injustice reflecting a loss of faith in the gods whose likenesses they are embracing.<br />I consider The Suppliants the best of these four dramas, as it contains some action whereas the other plays are basically static in setting.  The story of Io, a fair maiden turned into a cow/human creature and cursed by a maddening gadfly by Hera due to Zeus' pursuit of her, forms a provocative background to this tale.  Io's descendants number 50 women and 50 men, and the lustful men seek to forcibly take their female cousins for wives.  The women run to Argos and seek the protection of its king and people, setting the stage for a great battle (which unfortunately takes place in a lost drama).<br />I enjoyed these dramas, although I can't say I would care to see them presented on stage.  For the most part, nothing happens, but everyone is miserable and none too shy to broadcast that misery.  There can be no mistaking these plays for comedies, yet they do speak to timeless matters of the human spirit even today.ing champions to lead the fight at each gate, I was most interested in the dialogue between the chorus of Theban women and Eteocles.  The women rush in fright to the statues of the gods, pleading for mercy and grieving over their fate.  Eteocles is offended by their defeatist words, saying such talk will spread doubt and fear among the city's defenders and is an injustice reflecting a loss of faith in the gods whose likenesses they are embracing. <br />I consider The Suppliants the best of these four dramas, as it contains some action whereas the other plays are basically static in setting.  The story of Io, a fair maiden turned into a cow/human creature and cursed by a maddening gadfly by Hera due to Zeus' pursuit of her, forms a provocative background to this tale.  Io's descendants number 50 women and 50 men, and the lustful men seek to forcibly take their female cousins for wives.  The women run to Argos and seek the protection of its king and people, setting the stage for a great battle (which unfortunately takes place in a lost drama).  <br />I enjoyed these dramas, although I can't say I would care to see them presented on stage.  For the most part, nothing happens, but everyone is miserable and none too shy to broadcast that misery.  There can be no mistaking these plays for comedies, yet they do speak to timeless matters of the human spirit even today.	2002-05-08
1555126:US	53016962	R1CBKQGWEA0379	0679732578	144587022	Good Wives: Image and Reality in the Lives of Women in Northern New England, 1650-1750	Books	5	58	61	N	N	Brings to life a neglected part of American history	Good Wives sheds an illuminating light on the lives of early American women in New England.  Ulrich does a great job in proving that these women's lives were far from static and submissive, a fact long lines of historians have never realized or have ignored.  Of course, one reason New England's pre-colonial women have not been studied to any vast degree is the fact that primary (and even secondary) source material is almost nonexistent.  For example, there is no female diary written before 1750.  Ulrich deeply mines the sources that are extant and presents her findings in a way that is highly organized, richly detailed, and quite illuminating.  Her main sources consist of court records, probate records, family papers (which include only a very small number of letters written by women), diaries of men, church records, and the contents of ministerial sermons.  She is very careful to qualify the reliability and utility of each source, and, in a bibliographical essay, she points to the shortcomings of previous historical monographs that either ignored colonial women or dismissed their influence in colonial life.<br />Ulrich states that this book is a study of role definition, and she organizes her text around three role clusters associated with three Biblical women (an appropriate framework for the religious societies of colonial New England).  Her three prototypes are Bathsheeba for economic affairs, Eve for sexual/reproductive matters, and Jael for matters of female aggression within the bounds of religion.  Ulrich identifies and expounds upon the following roles for colonial New England women: housewife, deputy husband, consort, mother, mistress, neighbor, Christian, and--in some cases--heroism.  While women were subservient to men, they could assert themselves to certain degrees within the social framework of life.  For example, women commonly helped men with their work, conducted business matters in the place of a husband who was unavailable, oversaw the raising of all neighborhood children collectively, dominated the frequent occasions of childbirth, and indirectly exercised influence within the churches.  In some of the most interesting material in the book, Ulrich examines the accounts of females captured by Indians.  Although she finds significant differences between them in terms of their levels of submissiveness and aggression toward their captors, she  develops a framework in which these differences can be understood within early New England society as a whole.  The real magic of the book is its success in describing the normal, daily lives of women and comparing and contrasting the stories of those residing in urban centers, town outskirts, and frontier homes.  While the lack of primary source material makes it impossible to know the true aspects of these pioneer New England women, Good Wives offers a sweeping yet individualized picture of an important part of colonial society in all its aspects, a society in which the boundaries of men and women did sometimes blur within the individual household.f all neighborhood children collectively, dominated the frequent occasions of childbirth, and indirectly exercised influence within the churches.  In some of the most interesting material in the book, Ulrich examines the accounts of females captured by Indians.  Although she finds significant differences between them in terms of their levels of submissiveness and aggression toward their captors, she  develops a framework in which these differences can be understood within early New England society as a whole.  The real magic of the book is its success in describing the normal, daily lives of women and comparing and contrasting the stories of those residing in urban centers, town outskirts, and frontier homes.  While the lack of primary source material makes it impossible to know the true aspects of these pioneer New England women, Good Wives offers a sweeping yet individualized picture of an important part of colonial society in all its aspects, a society in which the boundaries of men and women did sometimes blur within the individual household.	2002-05-05
1558648:US	53016962	R2PSB8TR696YW3	0300043694	585139560	Ideology and U.S Foreign Policy	Books	4	34	43	N	N	A valuable study of the roots of American diplomacy	Many historians of diplomacy refer to some inchoate set of common principles and ideas that seems to lie behind all the twists and turns of American 20th-century foreign policy; Hunt actually tries to determine what that shared ideology was.  He describes three basic components of this shared ideology: 1) America's vision of national greatness, 2) the American propensity to view the world's population in a hierarchy of race (and later culture as its substitute), and 3) America's growing disappointment and horror at failed revolutions of the 19th and 20th centuries.  He makes a sound, logical argument, and this book holds an importance place in its field.  Certainly, Americans have always believed (and rightly so, in my opinion) that theirs is the greatest political system on earth.  Indisputably, Americans have tended to assign characteristics to peoples on the basis of race (from blacks to eastern Europeans to Asians).  I can't buy as strongly into the effects of failed revolutions--surely, the French Revolution shocked and displeased Americans who expected it to be a revolution in the American vein and just the first in a series of changes that would bring peace and freedom to all peoples.  The Bolshevik Revolution also affected Americans' views of the world significantly, but I think Hunt overexaggerates the fears generated at home by Third World revolutions abroad.  As Hunt would be the first to admit, ideology alone cannot explain foreign policy, and I find that his arguments do not explain to my satisfaction the disparity between Jeffersonian/Wilsonian and Federalist/FDR/LBJ thinkers.  Overall, though, I found this book noble in its intentions and quite utilitarian in covering a neglected area in the field of foreign policy.<br />Then I read the last chapter.  After putting forth his arguments, Hunt feels compelled to proscribe a new, more effective foreign policy for the United States.  The fact that this exceeds the purview of an historian is beyond the point.  His suggestions for changing the ideological notions of American diplomacy strike me as dangerously isolationist (despite his assertion to the contrary), exceedingly liberal, and nave.  He basically argues that America should get out of the business of imperialism, stop worrying about what other countries are doing, and devote itself to creating social and political equality at home.  The Cold War had not ended when this book was written, but his suggestion was that we basically let Communism determine its own future while we implement socialism at home.  Hunt must have been terribly disappointed to see Ronald Reagan win the Cold War so soon after this book's publication because that victory invalidates many of his recommendations.  Hunt's main contention is that America cannot simultaneously maintain liberty at home while working to spread freedom abroad--while I think he is completely wrong about this, the subject is being hotly debated in the context of the war on terrorism and will surely be debated for all time.<br />I do recommend this book.  I disagree with his conclusions, but his points are presented clearly, and his insights into history are invaluable.  I should also mention that he ends the book with a chapter discussing relevant books in the field of ideology and foreign policy--although his references seem weighted toward revisionist/leftist scholars, it is a very useful introduction to further readings in the important and always hotly debated field of American diplomacy.int.  His suggestions for changing the ideological notions of American diplomacy strike me as dangerously isolationist (despite his assertion to the contrary), exceedingly liberal, and nave.  He basically argues that America should get out of the business of imperialism, stop worrying about what other countries are doing, and devote itself to creating social and political equality at home.  The Cold War had not ended when this book was written, but his suggestion was that we basically let Communism determine its own future while we implement socialism at home.  Hunt must have been terribly disappointed to see Ronald Reagan win the Cold War so soon after this book's publication because that victory invalidates many of his recommendations.  Hunt's main contention is that America cannot simultaneously maintain liberty at home while working to spread freedom abroad--while I think he is completely wrong about this, the subject is being hotly debated in the context of the war on terrorism and will surely be debated for all time.  <br />I do recommend this book.  I disagree with his conclusions, but his points are presented clearly, and his insights into history are invaluable.  I should also mention that he ends the book with a chapter discussing relevant books in the field of ideology and foreign policy--although his references seem weighted toward revisionist/leftist scholars, it is a very useful introduction to further readings in the important and always hotly debated field of American diplomacy.	2002-05-02
1561090:US	53016962	R2R15OFOEU9X7Y	058310388X	505545845	Hunting the Bismarck	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History for the masses	This is an exciting story of a pivotal World War II naval battle.  The sinking of the Bismarck is a story I actually know very little about, so I am not sure how historically accurate this book is.  I think the Bismarck took three hits in its initial encounter with (and quick dispatch of) the Hood, but Forester only speaks of one hit.  Also, Forester gives us the conversations of men on the ships, in the air, and in London.  This makes for a more personal, involving, gripping story, and indeed this short, energetic work comes across as a form of history for the masses.  Hunting the Bismarck strikes me as an excellent resource for young readers; it richly portrays the mystery, majesty, and glory of this naval battle without burdening the reader with the technical descriptions and ponderous musings of academic history.  Forester is best known for his fictional tales of the courageous sailor Horatio Hornblower, works which have captivated readers for decades, and he definitely knows how to tell a story.  Readers with an armchair interest in World War II, and naval warfare in particular, will enjoy this quick-reading book, but those seriously interested in the sinking of the Bismarck should look elsewhere for the facts this book is not designed to provide.  Having known very little about this event going in, this book has inspired in me a desire to learn more about this tragic yet triumphant moment in world history.	2002-04-30
1561801:US	53016962	R3T1RAW5QIZL8G	0865262357	363495709	North Carolina and the Coming of the Civil War	Books	2	5	6	N	N	An overly simplistic and misleading summary	This is essentially a booklet published by the North Carolina Division of Archives and History.  At 63 pages including end notes, it is a little book meant to provide a summary of the events leading up to North Carolina's secession from the Union.  Personally, I think it does more harm than good.  There are many contradictions in the text, often between one sentence and the next.  The author uses pejorative terms to describe the pro-secessionists (e.g., fire-eaters, zealots); while these terms can be found in historical studies, the connotation associated with them deserves no place in objective writing.  My main objection to the book is the author's stated belief that slavery alone led to the state's secession.  The events, ideas, and actions leading up to War Between the States are varied and complex; this is especially the case in North Carolina.  Oddly, several of Harris' own facts belie his simplistic model of history.  There were significant numbers of slaves in North Carolina, but a majority of whites owned no slaves, and the number of plantations featuring more than 50 slaves was miniscule at best.  The political economy and way of life varied greatly between the coastal plain, piedmont, and mountain sections of the state.  White yeoman farmers were a significant force in North Carolina politics by 1860.  Significant class issues are passed over by Harris in this book, which is a great weakness of the text.  Surprisingly, Harris goes to great lengths to note the fact that votes for the conventions considering secession had no correlation at all to the number of slaves held in each area of the state--this alone chops the legs out from under his monolithic slavery thesis.  After citing the fact that several thousand pro-Unionists gathered in Salisbury in 1860, he makes the unbelievably broad statement that North Carolina was all but united in its opposition to leaving the Union.  He argues that local issues were still predominant in the politics of the 1850s and 1860, yet he still asserts that slavery overruled all other concerns in North Carolina politics and virtually mandated that the state secede.  Finally, in the final paragraph he steps back and admits that secession was a difficult decision for North Carolinians and was only made in the wake of Lincoln's coercive action in Fort Sumter.  The sense of rationality he accidentally assigns North Carolinians here is insufficient to resurrect the practicality of a book built upon a simplistic thesis that the author refuses to give up despite the fact that his own arguments often disprove its very validity.nd 1860, yet he still asserts that slavery overruled all other concerns in North Carolina politics and virtually mandated that the state secede.  Finally, in the final paragraph he steps back and admits that secession was a difficult decision for North Carolinians and was only made in the wake of Lincoln's coercive action in Fort Sumter.  The sense of rationality he accidentally assigns North Carolinians here is insufficient to resurrect the practicality of a book built upon a simplistic thesis that the author refuses to give up despite the fact that his own arguments often disprove its very validity.	2002-04-29
1563039:US	53016962	RFYSPX661QLPI	0809001462	375071437	Spreading the American Dream: American Economic and Cultural Expansion, 1890-1945 (American Century)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	An illuminating look at U.S. diplomacy from 1890-1945	I found this book to be more informative and unbiased than I expected.  Since Rosenberg approaches her subject from a revisionist standpoint, I feared there would be a politicized undercurrent that would turn me off.  Rosenberg's thesis is well-stated and clearly explained.  She examines America's economic and cultural expansion in the period between 1890 and 1945 (although she dips rather significantly at times into the late 1940s).  What she discovers is a steady progression from private activity to government-led efforts to expand America's influence in the world.  At the heart of her study is an ideological concept she calls liberal developmentalism; this uniquely American thinking was, she posits, pervasive in American government and culture by 1890.  Americans believed their system was the best in the world and that the export of the American system (free trade, free enterprise, the free flow of information) throughout the world would guarantee America's economic preeminence while building up weaker nations and ultimately securing world peace.  American motives were quite selfish, as expansionism seemed to hold the only solution for the depression of the 1890s, but Americans also truly believed the world would benefit by Americanization.  She identifies three distinct eras: a &quot;promotional state&quot; from the 1890s up until World War I, in which the government took a hands-off approach to diplomacy while American entrepreneurs and investors worked hard to expand their business to foreign markets; a &quot;cooperative state&quot; in the 1920s, in which government publicly appeared to stay out of diplomatic wrangling but behind the scenes sought to guide investment that would benefit the United States, even if it involved monopolies or American-dominated cartels; and a &quot;regulatory state&quot; in the 1930s and beyond, in which the government actively began to seek the means by which to control the world economy that had fallen into depression as a result of the long-term failures of the cooperative approach.  The Great Depression and spread of fascism convinced Roosevelt and others to seek the reins of the world economy.<br />Rosenberg points out the contradictory nature of American policy.  While espousing free trade and free access, America continued to employ protectionist tariffs and did not mind the lack of free access for other nations in American-dominated zones of interest.  She clearly explains how de facto diplomacy by private businessmen, while successful in the short-term, was helpless to stop the terrible descent into economic bad times.  She easily shows that America was far from isolationist during the first three decades of the twentieth century despite appearances to the contrary.  The subject I found most interesting in the book had to do with the export of American cultural values.  Rosenberg provides an enlightening discussion of movies/radio, communications, philanthropy, and missionary work in spreading the American way of life to other countries.  While this is a rather dry book at times, the discussion of cultural issues is a fascinating examination of a topic often overlooked by authors in this field of study.<br />The historian in me does frown upon Rosenberg's lack of footnotes.  While she does provide a helpful bibliography at the end of the book, the lack of distinct, verifiable citations robs a little bit of the authority so eloquently expressed in her thesis.  All in all, though, the book presents a compelling and forceful argument and provides a valuable new insight into the history of post-1890 American diplomacy.of the long-term failures of the cooperative approach.  The Great Depression and spread of fascism convinced Roosevelt and others to seek the reins of the world economy.  <br />Rosenberg points out the contradictory nature of American policy.  While espousing free trade and free access, America continued to employ protectionist tariffs and did not mind the lack of free access for other nations in American-dominated zones of interest.  She clearly explains how de facto diplomacy by private businessmen, while successful in the short-term, was helpless to stop the terrible descent into economic bad times.  She easily shows that America was far from isolationist during the first three decades of the twentieth century despite appearances to the contrary.  The subject I found most interesting in the book had to do with the export of American cultural values.  Rosenberg provides an enlightening discussion of movies/radio, communications, philanthropy, and missionary work in spreading the American way of life to other countries.  While this is a rather dry book at times, the discussion of cultural issues is a fascinating examination of a topic often overlooked by authors in this field of study.<br />The historian in me does frown upon Rosenberg's lack of footnotes.  While she does provide a helpful bibliography at the end of the book, the lack of distinct, verifiable citations robs a little bit of the authority so eloquently expressed in her thesis.  All in all, though, the book presents a compelling and forceful argument and provides a valuable new insight into the history of post-1890 American diplomacy.	2002-04-28
1568504:US	53016962	RY5A5C6Y124FC	0807116068	671963524	The Creation of Confederate Nationalism: Ideology and Identity in the Civil War South (The Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Interesting but too anecdotal	This little book is interesting, yet it seems to be hampered by its short format.  As a result, the author does not seem wholly successful in describing a Confederate national consciousness .  Basically, she argues that notions of evangelicalism, republicanism, and slavery merged into a national ideology; more significantly, she makes a good case that the contradictions within these ideological components effectively tore apart any widespread consensus by the war's end.  Certainly, evangelicalism played an important role as Southern ministers became forceful speakers on the justification for war and, later, on the reasons for Southern defeat.  Republicanism was a growing source of friction in Dixie in the years leading up to the war, often pitting planters against yeoman whites as elements of the market economy crept into Southern life.  Faust's points on republicanism do little to explain a consensus among all whites in favor of Confederate support, though.  Many planters attempted to tighten their control of political power in this era, and Faust seems to say they essentially tried to dupe or otherwise talk yeomen whites out of proactive political participation. There is not enough evidence presented here to accurately portray the relationship between different classes of whites.  This point also relates to her proposition that a pro-slavery ideology pervaded the entire South and effectively brought about the War for Southern Independence.  Faust does not explain why yeoman whites forgot the friction (particular in terms of economics) they increasingly felt during the late antebellum years for slaves and jumped immediately on a proslavery bandwagon.  Basically, this book suffers from a common fault prevalent in studies of Southern history--it ignores or passes over the significant political differences between rich and poor whites throughout the South in an effort to brand slavery as the principal cause of the conflict.<br />Much of Faust's material is anecdotal, and while she does reference her sources extensively in the index (sadly stuck by itself at the back of the book), the constant quotes from &quot;a planter,&quot; &quot;a soldier's wife,&quot; or &quot;a Methodist minister in North Carolina&quot; are not placed in sufficient context and thus give the impression that the South was a hegemonic, monolithic entity wherein all white men thought alike.  The source of this book is a series of lectures, and I feel that hampers the author's arguments--it never allows her to dig below the surface or argue her points to any great depth.  Certainly, though, the subject of Confederate nationalism is a subject begging for more study.  The topic is so intricate, though, that only a thick monograph filled with detailed argument can adequately address it., and while she does reference her sources extensively in the index (sadly stuck by itself at the back of the book), the constant quotes from &quot;a planter,&quot; &quot;a soldier's wife,&quot; or &quot;a Methodist minister in North Carolina&quot; are not placed in sufficient context and thus give the impression that the South was a hegemonic, monolithic entity wherein all white men thought alike.  The source of this book is a series of lectures, and I feel that hampers the author's arguments--it never allows her to dig below the surface or argue her points to any great depth.  Certainly, though, the subject of Confederate nationalism is a subject begging for more study.  The topic is so intricate, though, that only a thick monograph filled with detailed argument can adequately address it.	2002-04-24
1572229:US	53016962	RVN64I268D7QQ	0393304930	824829436	The Tragedy of American Diplomacy (New Edition)	Books	4	19	27	N	N	A revisionist manifesto on U.S. foreign policy	The Tragedy of American Diplomacy holds a unique place in the annals of foreign policy and diplomatic history.  As the veritable grand-daddy of revisionism in this field, its influence has been pervasive.  As proponents worked to produce revisionist studies in the same vein and opponents set out to debunk those new arguments, a postrevisionist synthesis of sorts has emerged.  Williams' focus on economics in the determination of American diplomacy has compelled other historians to take better take economic factors into account and in so doing to gain more understanding of the subject.  While the field of study has benefited from the influence of this book, the arguments of the book itself are often questionable.<br />I found this book to be fascinating, sometimes insightful and sometimes propagandistic.  As Bradford Perkins says in his essay on the book's influence, this is a manifesto rather than a monograph.  The politics of the author appear clearly on the very first page, as he condemns the American invasion of Cuba and holds the policy behind that move up as a shining example of the tragedy of American diplomacy in his eyes.  Williams' acknowledged radical views are spread liberally throughout the book, and they often serve to disrupt my own interest in some of his arguments.  Basically, he says the drive for economic expansion, as espoused in the Open Door Doctrine of the late 1890s, determined American foreign policy from that time on, that it became a veritable axiom of American political thought.  In Williams' eyes, the intensive desire to expand America's market and sell her surplus products throughout the world led to a problematic form of economic imperialism and inevitably did much to start the Cold War.  His discussion of economic policy as foreign policy in the wake of the depression of the 1890s and up until the end of World War II struck me as very insightful and even compelling.  While he says that America's intentions were indeed humanitarian, the policy caused other nations to resent America's dominating influence in their societies and further fueled the revolutions of the first half of the twentieth century.  Williams' argument diminishes in impact, however, when he comes to discuss the origins of the Cold War.  His portrait of the U.S. is one of an economically aggressive, imperial power seeking to remake the world in America's image.  He contends that America was in fact the opposite of isolationist in its policies and that its steps forced the Soviet Union into a corner and brought on the Cold War.<br />William's intense radicalism thwarts his own efforts.  He goes out of his way to defend the Soviet Union and its policies.  He describes Stalin as a man who had no intention of spreading communism, only wanting to secure his own borders after World War II.  America is the bully that &quot;forces&quot; Stalin to take over Eastern Europe and install the iron curtain there.  His U.S.S.R. is one always looking to compromise and to live in peace with the terrible Americans.  It is easy to see why some critics labeled Williams a Stalinist tool and dangerous Marxist intellectual.  Williams pleads that he is not saying economic determinism is behind his theories, but the fact that his arguments are largely Marxist and all but solely economic in nature leads me to believe he only wanted to avoid being labeled as the socialist he was.  I often found Williams to destroy what were valid arguments by slipping in snide political remarks--the most galling of which was that America's efforts to penetrate the Chinese market in the 1930s led the U.S. to go to war with Japan (as if America was the belligerent and not the victim of Japanese attack).<br />I do want to emphasize the fact that Williams does present some interesting and compelling ideas about economics and foreign policy.  While I disagree completely with his overall view, I have to praise parts of the book for effectively making points worthy of considerationand of great value in understanding America's history of diplomacy in the 20th century.  Anyone deeply interested in the subject almost has to read Williams because this book has affected the nature of the debate; if you are a conservative such as myself, you may have to grit your teeth through some sections, but you will reap definite rewards from reading this book.n and of great value in understanding America's history of diplomacy in the 20th century.  Anyone deeply interested in the subject almost has to read Williams because this book has affected the nature of the debate; if you are a conservative such as myself, you may have to grit your teeth through some sections, but you will reap definite rewards from reading this book.	2002-04-21
1577021:US	53016962	R30M6SXTR7KEB9	0195030974	229805483	Strategies of Containment: A Critical Appraisal of Postwar American National Security (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	An authoritative overview of U.S. foreign policy	I do not believe there is a finer overview of post-World War II American foreign policy than this important book.  As a work of history as opposed to political science, it is well-suited for any reader who cares about America's relationship with the world.  Gaddis explains containment as it was originally envisioned by George Kennan and then goes on to show the fluctuations between symmetrical and asymmetrical policies up through the Carter administration.  He first describes each policy stance--its antecedents, influences, and applications--then describes the applicability of that policy in reality.  He shows how Kennan's conception of containment was quickly lost in the enactment of NSC 68 by the Truman administration and the U.S. involvement in Korea.  He describes Eisenhower's \\"New Look\\" as a shift back to a policy wherein America drew distinctions between conflicts it would and would not react to, relying heavily on the nuclear option in an all-or-nothing containment strategy.  Then he dissects the \\"flexible response\\" policy of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, ascribing much importance to their Keynesian economic outlooks in convincing them that America could response to any and all threats while still growing the domestic economy.  After the debacle of Vietnam, Gaddis does a wonderful job of describing the d&eacute;tente policies of Nixon and Kissinger.<br />The most important conclusion he draws is that economic realities and domestic politics seemingly play an integral part in America's oscillating policies over time.  To be more exact, the perception of means largely steers policy.  Eisenhower adopted an asymmetrical policy, relying on the nuclear threat while decreasing the nation's conventional forces, because he feared the effects of overspending.  Kennedy wanted to distance himself from the previous adminstration, and his liberal economic outlook convinced him that the American economy could be grown and controlled in such a way as to provide the funds for increasing both military and domestic spending, which would allow him to meet any threat any where at any time.  This symmetrical policy, continued by Johnson, led America into a war in the wrong place at the wrong time against the wrong enemy.  Nixon, naturally, wanted to distance himself from Johnson, and he also faced great constraints in public perception and Congressional distaste for increased military spending--under such constraints, he and Kissinger decided on a policy of d&eacute;tente with the Soviet Union, a policy that was effective to some degree but was ineffective in many ways (especially lesser regional conflicts).  Carter's foreign policy was a blundering tightwalk between symmetry and asymmetry and was basically no policy at all.  Gaddis is fairly objective in his assessment of the oscillating course of foreign policy, pointing out the successes as well as the failures of each strategy.  He does not discuss every single incident because it would be impossible to cover everything in detail, so some issues I was interested in, such as Greek policy in 1948, the Bay of Pigs invasion, Khrushchev's shoe-thumping speeach at the U.N., the Iranian hostage crisis, to name a few, were barely mentioned, but his overall synthesis and communication of ideas is illuminating. I learned a great deal from reading this book.  I only wish the book had been written more recently than 1982, so it could have concluded with a study of how Ronald Reagan actually won the Cold War.nds for increasing both military and domestic spending, which would allow him to meet any threat any where at any time.  This symmetrical policy, continued by Johnson, led America into a war in the wrong place at the wrong time against the wrong enemy.  Nixon, naturally, wanted to distance himself from Johnson, and he also faced great constraints in public perception and Congressional distaste for increased military spending--under such constraints, he and Kissinger decided on a policy of dtente with the Soviet Union, a policy that was effective to some degree but was ineffective in many ways (especially lesser regional conflicts).  Carter's foreign policy was a blundering tightwalk between symmetry and asymmetry and was basically no policy at all.  Gaddis is fairly objective in his assessment of the oscillating course of foreign policy, pointing out the successes as well as the failures of each strategy.  He does not discuss every single incident because it would be impossible to cover everything in detail, so some issues I was interested in, such as Greek policy in 1948, the Bay of Pigs invasion, Khrushchev's shoe-thumping speeach at the U.N., the Iranian hostage crisis, to name a few, were barely mentioned, but his overall synthesis and communication of ideas is illuminating. I learned a great deal from reading this book.  I only wish the book had been written more recently than 1982, so it could have concluded with a study of how Ronald Reagan actually won the Cold War.	2002-04-17
1580038:US	53016962	R1NT9A24YEPEAK	0380633396	217026847	The Stairway to Heaven (The First Book of The Earth Chronicles)	Books	4	121	123	N	N	Man's search for the immortality of the gods	In this second entry in the Earth Chronicles series, Sitchin focuses on man's eternal and perpetual search for immortality and ties his findings in with his theories of ancient Sumer and the Annunaki who originally colonized earth.  In particular, he discusses Alexander the Great's desperate search for a way to escape an early death as well as Gilgamesh's epic search for everlasting life; more importantly, he provides a map of their quests, identifying their most important destinations with the ancient Sumerian sites he wrote about in The 12th Planet.  Basically, the ultimate destinations of the men of legend corresponded to the areas from which the Annunaki journeyed back and forth between earth, their orbiting spacecraft, and their home planet.  Having described an intricate grid system accounting for the specific locations of the ancient cities both before and after the Deluge, he makes some fascinating arguments.  I was most struck by his conclusion that the new, post-Deluge space port was actually Jerusalem.  As always, Sitchin incorporates Biblical texts into his story, revealing compelling connections between the books of the Bible and the ancient records of the earliest Middle Eastern cultures.<br />I found myself plodding to some degree through the first half of the book, even laying the book aside for a few days, but the latter sections here are quite interesting because they focus on ancient Egypt.  Sitchin's discussions of the ancient Egyptian monuments, particularly the Great Pyramids at Giza are enlightening and fascinating.  He forcibly argues that the pyramids were never meant to serve as burial places of ancient Egyptians and that the Great Pyramids and the majestic Sphinx were built long before Khufu, Chefren, and other pharaohs of the 4th Dynasty came to power.  Egyptologists dispute this conclusion, of course, but the evidence as presented by Sitchin and other scholars is quite strong on this point.  Sitchin lays waste to the only real evidence we have that Khufu built the Great Pyramid.  The masons' markings found in the chambers above the King's Chamber in the Great Pyramid purportedly show that Khufu was the builder, but Sitchin puts forth a very convincing argument that those marks were forged (and rather unconvincingly in fact) by an unscrupulous pseudo-archaeologist.<br />I try to read these books with an open mind.  I can't say if Sitchin is correct or not in his theories, but I can say that he breathes life into an ancient world I would otherwise know very little about, and he tells a fascinating story in a very engaging manner.we have that Khufu built the Great Pyramid.  The masons' markings found in the chambers above the King's Chamber in the Great Pyramid purportedly show that Khufu was the builder, but Sitchin puts forth a very convincing argument that those marks were forged (and rather unconvincingly in fact) by an unscrupulous pseudo-archaeologist.<br />I try to read these books with an open mind.  I can't say if Sitchin is correct or not in his theories, but I can say that he breathes life into an ancient world I would otherwise know very little about, and he tells a fascinating story in a very engaging manner.	2002-04-14
1581010:US	53016962	R3FVIILS0I2H2D	0691023093	757796338	Deadly Paradigms: The Failure of U.S. Counterinsurgency Policy (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Critical Study of U.S. Counterinsurgency Policy	Shafer informs us that not only were our supposed successes in counterinsurgency actually failures, he argues that America's counterinsurgency policy has been and remains inherently flawed since its inception.  He addresses five explanations given by various parties to explain America's counterinsurgency policies: 1) realism, 2) presidential politics, 3) bureaucratic politics, 4) American exceptionalism, and 5) cognitive content.  After describing what these various positions consist of, he presents a case study of four different counterinsurgency campaigns in an effort to show which position best explains the form of counterinsurgency policy the government took in each case.  First, he looks at France's counterinsurgency record in Indochina for the purpose of comparing France's  policy then to America's policy later.  He concludes that the French effort closely parallels the American effort, which disproves the theory that American exceptionalism can explain our counterinsurgency efforts and failures.  Next he looks at post-World War II Greece.  Basically, the Truman Doctrine of 1948 marks the birth of U.S. counterinsurgency efforts, so the Greek case study is of great importance.  His next case study is the Philippines of the early 1950s, and his final study, naturally enough, is Vietnam.  The Greek and Philippine counterinsurgency efforts were hailed as successes, but Shafer argues that forces outside America's efforts determined those successful conclusions.  American aid and policy was ill-conceived and often did more harm than good; the governments in question did not act as we wanted them to and would not have succeeded even if they had.  He makes a fairly convincing argument; certainly, frustration was high among policymakers throughout these times because the governments we were supporting used our aid to prop themselves up and even to purge their own political enemies.  Victory in Greece and the Philippines came despite America's counterinsurgency plans, he argues.  Everything broke down in Vietnam, of course, and failure there is obvious.<br />Shafer basically argues that American policymakers have always relied on very pervasive, unquestioned beliefs, and that is the true problem.  Policymakers never understood the local dynamics of the states in question, tending to view their governments as legitimate, ignore the real source of discontent among the poor population, and focus with tunnel vision on an external Communist threat as the basic threat.  Thus, despite significant differences in Greece, the Philippines, and Vietnam, America basically pursued the same policy.  The U.S. acted according to what it thought the foreign governments should do--strengthen the government, try to extend governmental influence to the peripheries, and allay discontent among the poor by enacting economic and democratic reform.  In reality, regimes did the opposite of these things; governments became more centralized and totalitarian, often terrorizing the classes posing a threat, and the lot of the poor became even more destitute and powerless.  Thankfully, other forces came into play in Greece and the Philippines, but Vietnam revealed the weakness of American strategy.  Regrettably, as Shafer sees it, nothing really had changed by the time he wrote this book in the late 1980s.  He shows that counterinsurgency thinking as revealed by the conference speakers at a major conference in 1986 repeated the same notions that lay behind previous failures.<br />The realist approach, positing that the U.S. acted based on events as they occurred, presidential politics, and bureaucratic politics theories all explain some aspects of American policy, but Shafer concludes that none of these by themselves accounts for America's actions and failures.  He argues that only a cognitive content approach explains America's counterinsurgency policies, and only this theory identifies the source of our mistakes.  He does make a strong case for the assertion that there are basic ideas which are wrong, short-sighted, and idealistic behind America's counterinsurgency thinking; these ideas are so basic and seemingly axiomatic that they have never been questioned.  As a result, America continues to act based on things that \\"ought to\\" happen, and in the real world this fails completely.  Only a detailed study of each situation, taking into account each foreign government's capacity and willingness to act, a realistic appraisal of that government's relationship to its own people, and a practical assessment of the leverage America can actually make use of, can lead to good policy in this realm.  He is pessimistic that this will happen because government leaders as well as academic political scientists share the same wrong ideas and reinforce each other's mistakes by agreeing with one another.  I do not have enough of a grasp on this subject to declare the author correct in his argument, but it does make a lot of sense and deserves serious consideration.  Much of its arguments do seem to apply to the current war on terrorism, but unfortunately the author does not delve into religious fanaticism in Third World countries as part of his studythat there are basic ideas which are wrong, short-sighted, and idealistic behind America's counterinsurgency thinking; these ideas are so basic and seemingly axiomatic that they have never been questioned.  As a result, America continues to act based on things that \\"ought to\\" happen, and in the real world this fails completely.  Only a detailed study of each situation, taking into account each foreign government's capacity and willingness to act, a realistic appraisal of that government's relationship to its own people, and a practical assessment of the leverage America can actually make use of, can lead to good policy in this realm.  He is pessimistic that this will happen because government leaders as well as academic political scientists share the same wrong ideas and reinforce each other's mistakes by agreeing with one another.  I do not have enough of a grasp on this subject to declare the author correct in his argument, but it does make a lot of sense and deserves serious consideration.  Much of its arguments do seem to apply to the current war on terrorism, but unfortunately the author does not delve into religious fanaticism in Third World countries as part of his study	2002-04-13
1585183:US	53016962	R1V6D274TZ8XYX	0140250379	661433366	Come Along with Me	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Jackson's most revealing stories and thoughts on fiction	This book is a fitting testament to Shirley Jackson, as the selections span her entire literary career.  It is tragic that a writer of Jackson's caliber should be called away during her productive years, but we are quite fortunate to be allowed a taste of the novel Jackson was working on when she died.  That taste is a short one, consisting of six chapters (roughly 27 pages), the final three of which are the first draft.  The protagonist is a thoroughly Jacksonian character, sometimes spontaneous and sometimes nostalgic, making a new life for herself in her own peculiar way.  Her attempts at shoplifting are particularly telling of her character, but unfortunately her story ends at just about that point.  The other stories included here are a special treat.  While &quot;The Lottery&quot; is included (just in case someone may not be familiar with it, as Jackson's husband tells us in his preface), the other stories are poignant looks into the lives of rather ordinary people.  Jackson had an amazing talent for characterization; the smallest actions can tell us more about a person than his/her overt actions and words, and such little things make Jackson's stories incredibly vivid, illuminating, and personal.  Shirley Jackson was a wife and mother whose writing always took second place behind her family.  Many of these stories center on family life in all its aspects.  &quot;The Beautiful Stranger&quot; and &quot;A Day in the Jungle&quot; deals with the sense of unfulfillment and unhappiness that one partner may come to feel in his/her marriage, &quot;The Rock&quot; speaks to the strength of a brother-sister relationship, &quot;Island&quot; is a somber story about one's end-of-life years.  &quot;Pajama Party&quot; is a simple tale of a young girl's birthday slumber party.  The story sounds so much like real life that it could be a neighbor telling you about it firsthand; it is also the funniest story Jackson ever wrote  There are darker stories where characters become &quot;lost,&quot; hopeless, and frightfully alone--&quot;The Bus,&quot; &quot;The Little House, &quot;A Visitor&quot; (which is a strange ghost story of sorts).  The best stories here, in my mind, are &quot;Louisa, Please Come Home,&quot; which has a uniquely Jacksonian twist of the prodigal son motif, and &quot;I Know Who I Love,&quot; which illustrates the fact that parents can be much too overprotective of their children.<br />The true highlight of this book, though, are the three &quot;lectures.&quot;  One gives Jackson's response to the old &quot;where do you get your ideas?&quot; question.  Another one addresses the techniques of writing effective fiction.  My favorite, though, is an essay describing the reaction of readers to the publication of &quot;The Lottery&quot; in New Yorker Magazine.  Jackson includes comments from all sorts of readers, almost all of it negative, which she breaks down into three different categories.  While &quot;The Lottery&quot; is certainly an original, successful story, I cannot imagine that so many people would have been so affected that they felt compelled to put their shock and disapproval into words.  The responses that Jackson describes to us offer a vivid look at American culture at mid-century.<br />If you are a Jackson fan, you (should) already own this book.  If you want an introduction to Jackson, the stories included here will certainly delight you and win you over to Jackson's unique way of telling stories.  These stories clearly reveal Jackson's humanity and family devotion, and the reader comes away with great respect for the author as both a writer and as a human being.ot;lost,&quot; hopeless, and frightfully alone--&quot;The Bus,&quot; &quot;The Little House, &quot;A Visitor&quot; (which is a strange ghost story of sorts).  The best stories here, in my mind, are &quot;Louisa, Please Come Home,&quot; which has a uniquely Jacksonian twist of the prodigal son motif, and &quot;I Know Who I Love,&quot; which illustrates the fact that parents can be much too overprotective of their children.<br />The true highlight of this book, though, are the three &quot;lectures.&quot;  One gives Jackson's response to the old &quot;where do you get your ideas?&quot; question.  Another one addresses the techniques of writing effective fiction.  My favorite, though, is an essay describing the reaction of readers to the publication of &quot;The Lottery&quot; in New Yorker Magazine.  Jackson includes comments from all sorts of readers, almost all of it negative, which she breaks down into three different categories.  While &quot;The Lottery&quot; is certainly an original, successful story, I cannot imagine that so many people would have been so affected that they felt compelled to put their shock and disapproval into words.  The responses that Jackson describes to us offer a vivid look at American culture at mid-century.  <br />If you are a Jackson fan, you (should) already own this book.  If you want an introduction to Jackson, the stories included here will certainly delight you and win you over to Jackson's unique way of telling stories.  These stories clearly reveal Jackson's humanity and family devotion, and the reader comes away with great respect for the author as both a writer and as a human being.	2002-04-10
1587736:US	53016962	R3CMJQTSY1ADLG	0848803701	737636890	Sundial	Books	3	17	19	N	N	It's the end of the world as we know it	Even as great a writer as Shirley Jackson has to have a worst book (worst being a relative term, of course), and The Sundial would seem to be Jackson's.  The story never had a strong Jackson feel to it because the characters were fairly shallow and unworthy of this reader's sympathy.  As an outcast myself, I expect to find at least one troubled soul with which to identify and commiserate when I read Jackson.  I initially had trouble distinguishing between the different characters because none of them were very deeply developed.  While the occasional gripe or maudlin sentiment caught my attention, I found that I did not care for or about any of the dozen or so individuals described here.  The Sundial is basically a weird end-of-the-world novel; the young Mr. Halloran has just died, and his mother now assumes the coveted role of head of household (due to her own husband's infirmities).  As she begins to assert her authority and basically throw a few people out of \\"her\\" house, old Aunt Fanny encounters the ghost of her father, who warns her that the world is about to end, but that he will protect everyone who stays in the house.  As several people begin to believe the truth of the premonition (including Mrs. Halloran), everyone is allowed to remain there.  The number is increased by an obnoxiously loud friend of the Mrs. Halloran's and her two daughters, a strange girl sent by her father for temporary housing, and a gentleman whose background escapes me.  These people, as might be expected, do not get along with each other very well at all.  Mrs. Halloran, born of a low station, increasingly annoys her companions by assuming a dictatorial air, eventually insisting on wearing a crown.  The novel leads up to the fateful day when the prophecy is supposed to be fulfilled.<br />While there are elements of humor in the conversations and interactions of characters who dislike one another as much as these do, there is no deep psychological meaning to be gleaned from the story.  No character strikes me as real or more than remotely human, and the general attitude expressed as to the imminent end of the world is a much different reaction than I would expect of anyone.  I have been reluctant to see other Jackson novels end, but I had no trouble putting this book down once I turned the final page.  For someone wondering what Shirley Jackson is all about, I would not suggest reading this novel as an introduction; this one really does not fit the mold of her other major works.  A Jackson fan such as myself will want to read The Sundial, of course, simply because Shirley Jackson wrote it, and it is quite likely that some will get more out of this book than I did.No character strikes me as real or more than remotely human, and the general attitude expressed as to the imminent end of the world is a much different reaction than I would expect of anyone.  I have been reluctant to see other Jackson novels end, but I had no trouble putting this book down once I turned the final page.  For someone wondering what Shirley Jackson is all about, I would not suggest reading this novel as an introduction; this one really does not fit the mold of her other major works.  A Jackson fan such as myself will want to read The Sundial, of course, simply because Shirley Jackson wrote it, and it is quite likely that some will get more out of this book than I did.	2002-04-08
1589077:US	53016962	R94VJN8BRUASW	1567230644	993612400	The Bird's Nest	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Will the real Elizabeth Richmond please stand up?	No writer has ever plumbed the depths of psychology as deeply as Shirley Jackson.  While not as powerful as We Have Always Lived in the Castle or even Hangsaman, this novel does succeed in giving the reader a remarkable look into the mind of a disturbed individual.  Elizabeth Richmond is a perfectly drab, mousy creature wanting nothing more than to pass her days as quietly and demurely as possible.  A fragile emotional soul, she is tormented by terrible migraines and backaches.  Her problems mount when her aunt begins accusing her of terrible things she has no recollection of doing.  A trip to the doctor results in a referral to the good Doctor Wright, a man practicing psychology while proudly announcing he is not a psychologist.  Using hypnosis, Dr. Wright comes to recognize and converse with three distinct personalities in his patient--the quiet, demure Elizabeth, the exceedingly nice and wonderful Beth, and the childish, prankster Betsy.  Betsy, gaining more dominance over her other selves, manages to escape to New York to search for her mother.  It is there that a fourth personality emerges, this one a spoiled brat who cares only about the money she is supposed to inherit.  As the story progresses, Elizabeth's split personalities fight for dominance, often switching back and forth between one and another.<br />Jackson gives us two (or maybe I should say five) viewpoints on the young lady's case.  Most often, we are allowed to see things from Elizabeth's viewpoint(s), but in sections we are given an external, non-clinical account of events by Doctor Wright.  We also see and learn much about Elizabeth's Aunt Morgen, who is quite a character and rather unbalanced herself.  As the doctor pursues his therapy, we learn many things about Elizabeth's mother and Aunt Morgen's less than sisterly relationship with her, we pick up confusing images of a character named Robin from Elizabeth's early childhood, and we find a reference to Elizabeth's four selves once going in search of a bird's nest.  I have to admit the bird nest thing escapes my comprehension, and I am still quite muddled about the Robin character.  Of course, if the entire story made sense, this would not be Shirley Jackson.  As it is, this is a wonderful example of character development as only Jackson could provide.  Aunt Morgen is almost as mysterious as Elizabeth herself.  While I sympathized greatly with three of Elizabeth's personalities, including the mischievous one, I strongly disliked the fourth.  With the constant switching between selves, I found myself hating Elizabeth one second, and caring for her the next.  I regarded Aunt Morgen at different times as a fool, a wretch, a loving aunt, and a neurotic.  Dr. Wright is a rather ambivalent character, although he is given to fits of exasperation when Elizabeth's case or her aunt frustrate him.  Jackson ingeniously made one of the four personalities left-handed; this allowed her a most telling and effective means by which to have two personalities communicate simultaneously.  I do not know how much scientists knew about multiple personalities during the time this novel was written around 1950, but I am sure Jackson possessed insights more penetrating than those of many clinicians.  Few psychological horror novels can rival The Bird's Nest.n search of a bird's nest.  I have to admit the bird nest thing escapes my comprehension, and I am still quite muddled about the Robin character.  Of course, if the entire story made sense, this would not be Shirley Jackson.  As it is, this is a wonderful example of character development as only Jackson could provide.  Aunt Morgen is almost as mysterious as Elizabeth herself.  While I sympathized greatly with three of Elizabeth's personalities, including the mischievous one, I strongly disliked the fourth.  With the constant switching between selves, I found myself hating Elizabeth one second, and caring for her the next.  I regarded Aunt Morgen at different times as a fool, a wretch, a loving aunt, and a neurotic.  Dr. Wright is a rather ambivalent character, although he is given to fits of exasperation when Elizabeth's case or her aunt frustrate him.  Jackson ingeniously made one of the four personalities left-handed; this allowed her a most telling and effective means by which to have two personalities communicate simultaneously.  I do not know how much scientists knew about multiple personalities during the time this novel was written around 1950, but I am sure Jackson possessed insights more penetrating than those of many clinicians.  Few psychological horror novels can rival The Bird's Nest.	2002-04-07
1591926:US	53016962	R21SYXJJYPGCT2	0445031174	132852728	Hangsaman	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A haunting yet confusing novel that I could not put down	I am giving this book 5 stars even though I did not understand the ending at all; only Shirley Jackson is capable of winning my praises in spite of my confusion over her work.  This book is quite difficult to review; I cannot give voice to my questions without potentially giving something away to the reader (if it is even possible for me to give away something I never really \\"got\\").  Natalie is an unusual young lady.  Her mother is unable to express her love to her, and her father spends his time training her for a life of writing and affable intellectualism.  He daily meets with Natalie to review things she has written and to converse on an adult, though instructional, level.  He is a writer of sorts and has frequent parties; Natalie is allowed if not encouraged to engage in adult conversation, drink, and smoke.  Natalie lives in two worlds at once; she is constantly imagining vivid exchanges between herself and others--particularly a cop trying to make her confess to a murder.  At one party, she is led off into the woods by an older man, and something important and probably not good happens to her--she constantly pretends that nothing happened, but an important change in her begins at that point.  As she goes to college, she changes drastically.  She is unhappy at school; the other girls are silly, conniving, vain, deceitful, etc.  She becomes friends with her English teacher and his wife, both of whom are dysfunctional human beings; the teacher is especially bad and spends way too much time drinking and meeting his young female students outside of class.  Although she seems to adapt to college and make some friends, her personal struggles take a turn for the worse; this process is accelerated when she meets a strange girl named Tony, endures the laughter her classmates direct toward her, and isolates herself more and more from those around her.  Tony's influence helps set the stage for the conclusion of the story.<br />I imagine that loners like myself will strongly sympathize with Natalie and her struggles.  I was amazed to see her expressing thoughts I myself have at times: Am I really here? Am I really alive or just dreaming that I am alive? Are the people around me real or are they just \\"actors\\" in the performance that is my life?  Are they all conspiring against me and plotting my downfall?  If I think of something today that I have not thought of in a long time, will I not encounter (and thus have created by my thoughts) that thing tomorrow?  Natalie clearly deteriorates mentally as the story progresses, but I (like her) am left with questions about the events described--What was real and what was not real?  What really happened with the man in the woods?  Was Tony real? To what does the title Hangsaman really refer?  There are many questions I am left to ponder after finishing this book.  I can't say that the ending was bad; my expectations were proven wrong, which is always a good thing about a book's conclusion.  If the whole story had been explained in detail, I realize that its effects on me would have been minimal, whereas my questions will keep the story in my mind for some time to come and will probably compel me to re-read the novel at some point in the future.  Shirley Jackson tells a gripping story and makes Natalie a character I strongly liked, sympathized with, cheered for, and worried about.  The writing is really quite magical and unlike anything else I have read from other writers.  As weird as the story and characters sometimes are, you still feel a close, emotional connection with both.  The writing is so powerful that it is quite capable of  bringing on anxiety attacks of a sort for this reader.  Jackson's writing is equivalent to a roadside accident--although you may see something unpleasant, you have to look, and then it is all but impossible to ever look away.  In its own way, Hangsaman is as good a read as The Haunting of Hill House and We Have Always Lived in the Castle.gly sympathize with Natalie and her struggles.  I was amazed to see her expressing thoughts I myself have at times: Am I really here? Am I really alive or just dreaming that I am alive? Are the people around me real or are they just \\"actors\\" in the performance that is my life?  Are they all conspiring against me and plotting my downfall?  If I think of something today that I have not thought of in a long time, will I not encounter (and thus have created by my thoughts) that thing tomorrow?  Natalie clearly deteriorates mentally as the story progresses, but I (like her) am left with questions about the events described--What was real and what was not real?  What really happened with the man in the woods?  Was Tony real? To what does the title Hangsaman really refer?  There are many questions I am left to ponder after finishing this book.  I can't say that the ending was bad; my expectations were proven wrong, which is always a good thing about a book's conclusion.  If the whole story had been explained in detail, I realize that its effects on me would have been minimal, whereas my questions will keep the story in my mind for some time to come and will probably compel me to re-read the novel at some point in the future.  Shirley Jackson tells a gripping story and makes Natalie a character I strongly liked, sympathized with, cheered for, and worried about.  The writing is really quite magical and unlike anything else I have read from other writers.  As weird as the story and characters sometimes are, you still feel a close, emotional connection with both.  The writing is so powerful that it is quite capable of  bringing on anxiety attacks of a sort for this reader.  Jackson's writing is equivalent to a roadside accident--although you may see something unpleasant, you have to look, and then it is all but impossible to ever look away.  In its own way, Hangsaman is as good a read as The Haunting of Hill House and We Have Always Lived in the Castle.	2002-04-05
1594971:US	53016962	R7JDWCCHLUPE9	0374516812	9117281	The Lottery and Other Stories	Books	5	33	39	N	N	Illuminating snapshots of life	Many people are familiar with the story \\"The Lottery,\\" but it is just one of many incredible vignettes of life filling this collection.  It is hard to understand today why \\"The Lottery\\" originally provoked such a strong reaction, yet it still packs a punch for first-time readers.  While it does have aspects of horror, the remaining stories are basically literary.  \\"Flower Garden\\" and \\"After You, My Dear Alphonse\\" deal with racism and would seem to be pretty bold statements for the time period (the book was published in 1948); the latter story seems particularly groundbreaking because of the unusual perspective it provides.  \\"Charles\\" is a humorous yet illuminating look at the behavior of children, while \\"Afternoon in Linen\\" is an important statement on why children sometimes behave as they do.  Jackson is at her best when describing the disenchanted adult. .  The helplessness of women is an important theme in many stories; many of the women described here feel helpless and subservient to their husbands, their neighbors, and their community.  \\"Elizabeth\\" is a fairly long study of how one woman's wishes and dreams remain unfulfilled in later life.  The housewife in \\"Got a Letter From Jimmy\\" is thoroughly exasperated by her husband's feelings, and since she cannot speak her mind to him, she is forced to fantasize about killing him.  In \\"The Villager\\" a woman spontaneously chooses to become someone else entirely for a few minutes, and most of Jackson's heroines spend much time contemplating what could have been.  In \\"Of Course,\\" the fact that a new family has a few unorthodox views builds an unbreachable wall between brand-new neighbors.  The women in these stories are always wondering what other people think about them and worrying about what others will say about them.  Even when a group of women try to do something good to help the less fortunate, it backfires on them in \\"Come Dance With Me in Ireland.\\"  When a female character vacations with her husband in New York in \\"Pillar of Salt,\\" she soon becomes \\"lost,\\" afraid, and desperate to return home.  \\"Colloquy\\" is the shortest story in the collection, but its protagonist speaks for most of Jackson's female characters when she asks whether she alone or the whole world has gone insane.<br />My favorite story here is \\"The Daemon Lover.\\"  Herein, Jackson offers one of the most poignant, touching looks at loneliness, desperation, and fragility I have ever read.  In the story, we spend a day with the protagonist as she prepares for her wedding, having become engaged just the night before to a James Harris.  It is a depressing yet beautiful story, and I actually rate it higher than \\"The Lottery.\\"  The character of James Harris actually flitters throughout several of these stories, a phantom of sorts haunting several of Jackson's more memorable female characters.<br />Jackson deals with very serious subjects, and the illumination provided by her unusual perspectives on life is vivid and poignant.  When addressing racism, she shows how even an individual with the best of intentions and good will can still represent an unfortunate racist attitude.  In speaking to morality and social values, she shows how hard it can be for an individual to go against tradition and the community to do what is right.  She offers powerful insights on child (and adult) psychology.  Even the couple of stories I did not really \\"get\\" offered insight into the living of life.  Readers should not expect a book of horror stories when they pick up this book.  The stories can be maudlin and even depressing, but they are philosophical, psychological, and sociological rather than creepy or spooky.in \\"Pillar of Salt,\\" she soon becomes \\"lost,\\" afraid, and desperate to return home.  \\"Colloquy\\" is the shortest story in the collection, but its protagonist speaks for most of Jackson's female characters when she asks whether she alone or the whole world has gone insane. <br />My favorite story here is \\"The Daemon Lover.\\"  Herein, Jackson offers one of the most poignant, touching looks at loneliness, desperation, and fragility I have ever read.  In the story, we spend a day with the protagonist as she prepares for her wedding, having become engaged just the night before to a James Harris.  It is a depressing yet beautiful story, and I actually rate it higher than \\"The Lottery.\\"  The character of James Harris actually flitters throughout several of these stories, a phantom of sorts haunting several of Jackson's more memorable female characters.  <br />Jackson deals with very serious subjects, and the illumination provided by her unusual perspectives on life is vivid and poignant.  When addressing racism, she shows how even an individual with the best of intentions and good will can still represent an unfortunate racist attitude.  In speaking to morality and social values, she shows how hard it can be for an individual to go against tradition and the community to do what is right.  She offers powerful insights on child (and adult) psychology.  Even the couple of stories I did not really \\"get\\" offered insight into the living of life.  Readers should not expect a book of horror stories when they pick up this book.  The stories can be maudlin and even depressing, but they are philosophical, psychological, and sociological rather than creepy or spooky.	2002-04-03
1598546:US	53016962	R2VFVAB6SJGKVT	044503128X	906138291	The Road Through the Wall	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Jackson's unforgettable first novel	Although The Road Through the Wall was her first published novel, it is vintage Shirley Jackson.  No one ever viewed and/or described human beings in the way Jackson did.  Not surprisingly, this novel is terribly maudlin and disturbing.  It is also very complex, and I'm not sure I would perfectly understand it had I read it over and over again.  There are no heroes in these pages and only one innocent character.  The premise of the story is fairly simple: Jackson paints a portrait of a well-to-do middle class neighborhood, shining her blinding light of truth on everyone.  The portrait is not a pretty one.  A wall separates the community from the well-to-do section of town, a section most of the men and women hope to eventually move to; in the meantime, they are terribly snobbish to those around them--quietly and secretly or brazenly and openly depending on how poor or ill-bred the inferior citizens are seen to be.  Eventually, a section of the wall is removed in order to make way for a new road, a road that will expose their isolated community to the world and basically ruin their neighborhood, community, and lives.  Well before the road is built, terrible tragedy does indeed strike at the heart of the community.  I was quite shocked by the turn of events toward the end.<br />Some of Jackson's plot points really make little sense to me.  While it often seems that Jackson intends to introduce such confusing elements into her fiction, I find it very likely that I am just not understanding the immense subtleties and hidden clues of a masterful writer.  This novel is especially hard to comprehend.  The cast of characters is quite large, consisting of a number of families.  Jackson constantly moves back and forth between the men, women, and children, which makes it hard to really &quot;know&quot; each character.  The task of keeping track of who is who is made even more difficult by the fact that many of the girls' names all start with H and that two of the boys have the same initials.  There came a point when I just had to stop flipping back through the story trying to exactly remember each character in turn.  Perhaps it was a deliberate tactic by Jackson to indicate that all of the characters are basically the same.  One family surprisingly moves away right in the middle of the book, much to my surprise, and the family that moves into their rental home seems far less important that the book's back cover led me to expect.  The reader should take nothing for granted when reading Shirley Jackson.<br />All in all, this is a wonderful if idiosyncratic read.  The plot is amazingly complex for an author's first published novel.  I wish I could talk about the ending, if for no other reason than to pose the questions I have about it.  Once you permit yourself to enter Shirley Jackson mode, you may well be lured into a level of comfort, expecting the novel to simply end without any climax or conclusion.  I can pretty much assure you that the conclusion is one you will not soon forget.same initials.  There came a point when I just had to stop flipping back through the story trying to exactly remember each character in turn.  Perhaps it was a deliberate tactic by Jackson to indicate that all of the characters are basically the same.  One family surprisingly moves away right in the middle of the book, much to my surprise, and the family that moves into their rental home seems far less important that the book's back cover led me to expect.  The reader should take nothing for granted when reading Shirley Jackson.<br />All in all, this is a wonderful if idiosyncratic read.  The plot is amazingly complex for an author's first published novel.  I wish I could talk about the ending, if for no other reason than to pose the questions I have about it.  Once you permit yourself to enter Shirley Jackson mode, you may well be lured into a level of comfort, expecting the novel to simply end without any climax or conclusion.  I can pretty much assure you that the conclusion is one you will not soon forget.	2002-04-01
1598771:US	53016962	R1EBZD5NIL5AC5	0140071075	887689385	We Have Always Lived in the Castle	Books	5	26	33	N	N	The most disturbing, heartbreaking novel I have ever read	I strongly believe that this is the greatest, most powerful horror novel ever written, and I would go so far as to rank it among the top five pieces of literature the world has ever known.  It truly is the most disturbing, original, heartbreaking story I have ever read.  It is almost impossible to describe, as are the emotions I feel having read it--it taps virtually every emotion I know of.  Merricat is the most unusual, utterly tragic heroine in the universe of fiction.  She lives happily with her older sister Constance, her uncle Julian, and her cat Jonas.  The rest of the family died several years earlier, murdered with arsenic during the family's evening meal.  Although Constance was suspected of the deed, she was acquitted.  Nevertheless, the three Blackwoods live in total isolation, and Merricat's twice-weekly trips into the village for groceries are horribly taxing on her because the villagers all laugh at her and tease her mercilessly about the family's tragic history.  Merricat likes to bury things and play with her cat and hide near the brook; Constance is perfectly content cooking for her family and keeping the house immaculately clean, and Uncle Julian devotes himself to writing a book about the murder of most of his family.  The strange trio is happy and safe in their self-isolation until a cousin shows up at the door and brings ruin, despite Merricat's magical safeguards.  The interrelationships of the sisters and uncle is often nonsensical yet very real and adorable.  Cousin Charles is a greedy beast, yet only Merricat seems cognizant of this fact initially.  The really despicable people are the villagers, however.  Never tiring of their constant teasing and harassment of Merricat on her few public appearances, the utterly black heart of the mob is vividly shown toward the end of the book.  The end of the novel is incredibly emotional and touching and brought tears to my eyes.  I wish I could truly describe this novel, but the only words that can accomplish that are those of this mesmerizing book itself.<br />On the back of my older copy of this novel, the book is described as an item of black magic that will cast a spell upon the reader; never were truer words written.  The psychology underlying all of Jackson's fiction is deeply complex, unique in literature, and maddeningly compelling.  But there is also much tenderness to be found here alongside the pain and horror of the Blackwood family story.  This is tragedy surpassing even the best work of Sophocles.  Anyone who reads this novel and is not deeply affected emotionally is simply not human.  If I could have reached into this fictional world and pulled Merricat, Constance, Julian, and Jonas out, I would have done so.  The powerlessness I felt as a reader, quite unable to protect and comfort the characters, was truly agonizing, and it was sometimes all I could do to keep myself from getting up and running around the room in exasperation.  Anyone feeling at all depressed really should not read this book; it is a form of magic or a drug that can potentially threaten your very sanity.  I know how silly this sounds, but I am quite serious.  There is so much emotion stored in these pages that it really should come with a warning label.omplish that are those of this mesmerizing book itself.<br />On the back of my older copy of this novel, the book is described as an item of black magic that will cast a spell upon the reader; never were truer words written.  The psychology underlying all of Jackson's fiction is deeply complex, unique in literature, and maddeningly compelling.  But there is also much tenderness to be found here alongside the pain and horror of the Blackwood family story.  This is tragedy surpassing even the best work of Sophocles.  Anyone who reads this novel and is not deeply affected emotionally is simply not human.  If I could have reached into this fictional world and pulled Merricat, Constance, Julian, and Jonas out, I would have done so.  The powerlessness I felt as a reader, quite unable to protect and comfort the characters, was truly agonizing, and it was sometimes all I could do to keep myself from getting up and running around the room in exasperation.  Anyone feeling at all depressed really should not read this book; it is a form of magic or a drug that can potentially threaten your very sanity.  I know how silly this sounds, but I am quite serious.  There is so much emotion stored in these pages that it really should come with a warning label.	2002-03-31
1599519:US	53016962	R1KNJJP42OBQQO	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	130	142	N	N	Even the words on the pages are haunted	The Haunting of Hill House remains one of the most important horror novels of all time and certainly one of the most singular haunted house tales ever written.  It is certainly worth mentioning that at no time do we or the characters actually see any sort of visible ghostly manifestation; the phenomena are limited to cold spots, spectral banging on the walls and doors, messages written on walls, and torn, blood-spewed clothing in one room.  If Jackson had compelled Hugh Crain (the main who built Hill House) to pop out of the woodwork and say Boo!, this story would have been long forgotten.  Still, it quite amazes me that Shirley Jackson has met with such critical success and eternal popularity; I say this only because her writing style is unique and rather off-the-wall.  Truly, Jackson's writing itself is haunted, and she herself almost surely was in some manner.  There is a degree of insanity in every page; the characters often engage in dialogue that is childish of a sort and certainly different from normal adult conversation.  I would think such idiosyncratic writing would appeal only to those like myself who are different, somewhat kooky, outsiders looking at the real world through thick-paned glass that sometimes fogs over or plays tricks with our eyes depending on the angle in which the sun hits it or does not hit it.<br />Eleanor is an especially appealing character to me because I share many of her doubts and fears: I don't belong, what are people saying about me?, are people laughing at me behind my back?, why am I here and where am I going?, etc.  No one rivals Jackson in the ability to paint a deeply moving, psychologically deep portrait of the tortured soul.  The fact that so many people praise this book must mean that most people are plagued with self-doubt, which I find sadly comforting.  In any event, Eleanor is a perfectly tragic heroine; those who can't relate to her must surely at least pity her.  The character of Theodora is also fascinating, as she largely represents Eleanor's opposite: a vibrant personality, full of life and a need to be in the middle of it, probably insecure inwardly but strikingly bold outwardly.  This dichotomy between two &quot;sisters&quot; is a constant theme in Jackson's work.  The Eleanor-Theo relationship is reflected and honed against the relationship of Hugh Crain's two daughters, twin souls who grew up the dark mansion as loving sisters but who eventually came to hate each other and fight for ownership rights to the house.  Eleanor and Theo also have a subtle love-hate relationship, the conflict between the two representing a jealousy over the house.  Both want to be the center of attention, although Eleanor would never admit such a desire, and the fact that the house itself obviously harbors a strange enchantment for Eleanor bothers Theo and enchants Eleanor.  When Theo's room and clothing are painted in blood, the house clearly signifies the soul with whom its sympathies lie, and this marks a turning point in the text.  Eleanor's rapid descent into madness seems a little sudden to me at times, and the exceedingly nonsensical conversations between all of the characters strikes me as quite mad.  Of course, at the end, one wonders just which of the later conversations actually happened outside of Eleanor's own mind.<br />The introduction of the doctor's wife in the closing section of the book effects a radical change in the mood of the novel.  Mrs. Montague and her associate Arthur are incredibly annoying people.  Their professed beliefs in the paranormal and attempts to contact spirits by way of a planchette clearly upset the mood of both the house and its occupants (and the reader).  Their over-the-top belief in spirits and determination to contact them using parlor-method techniques serve to ridicule the house and Eleanor and quickly usher in the d&eacute;nouement of the story.  Eleanor's sense of belonging to the house takes precedence over everything else in her life; she has come home, and the house's wish in this regard is fulfilled.  The ending itself is striking and perfectly fitting, I feel, and does much to keep the spirit of this wonderful novel in your mind and soul for a long time.  This is not a novel to cast aside and forget; long after you have finished the book, Eleanor and Hill House will haunt your mind and soul.ome home, and the house's wish in this regard is fulfilled.  The ending itself is striking and perfectly fitting, I feel, and does much to keep the spirit of this wonderful novel in your mind and soul for a long time.  This is not a novel to cast aside and forget; long after you have finished the book, Eleanor and Hill House will haunt your mind and soul.	2002-03-30
1601496:US	53016962	R44197DOD7TCA	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	5	80	83	N	N	The quintessential Lovecraft collection	This is basically the essential Lovecraft collection, featuring 16 of his best pieces of fiction and a noteworthy introduction by Robert Bloch, a member of the Lovecraft circle..  Naturally, one can make an argument for other tales that should be included, but the contents as they are represent a compelling cross-section of the master's work over the course of his literary career.  It must be noted that Lovecraft's three short novels, which are of course immensely important, are not among these shorter works, but their inclusion in these pages would result in a much longer book that could potentially turn away potential readers.  This book more than any other serves as a beacon to new readers yet to discover horror's greatest writer.<br /><br />Every story herein deserves it own review, frankly.  \\"The Rats in the Walls,\\" \\"The Dreams in the Witch-House,\\" and \\"In the Vault\\" (one of my favorites) offer traditional horror tales full of Lovecraftian atmosphere.  \\"The Outsider,\\" perhaps the least satisfying read, is an allegorical tale reflecting an isolated individual's view of society and of himself.  \\"The Silver Key\\" is a solid representative of the dream-myth stories of the author's earlier years and serves as an introduction to Lovecraft's heroic character  Randolph Carter.  \\"The Colour Out of Space\\" is a singular, science fiction/horror tale counted by Lovecraft himself as one of his favorites.  \\"The Picture in the House\\" is perhaps Lovecraft's most efficiently horrifying story ever, \\"The Music of Erich Zann\\" is an unforgettable tale touching on the great secrets of the unknown, and \\"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\\" sensationally evokes the horror and depths of influence by unseen agents on this earth.  These stories effectively set the stage for the Cthulhu Mythos tales, of which the remaining stories form an integral part.  \\"The Call of Cthulhu\\" and \\"The Dunwich Horror\\" herald the full manifestation of Lovecraft's cosmic horror and describe the ambivalent agency of incomprehensible outside forces on mankind.  \\"The Haunter of the Dark\\" and \\"The Thing on the Doorstep\\" highlight even more mysterious access points of the unknown into man's consciousness.  I must give special attention to my two favorite Lovecraft tales: \\"The Whisperer in Darkness\\" and \\"The Shadow Out of Time.\\"  Much of the action detailed in the first of these stories is related to the reader by way of letters exchanged between an isolated scholar in the hills of Vermont and the narrator, an expert in folk tales who is compelled to believe the ancient stories of alien influences he once preached against.  We see no action first-hand until the latter pages, when the protagonist finally visits his correspondent in Vermont and is presented with facts and examples proving the reality of advanced alien life forms; the evolving conclusion of the tale is perhaps predictable to a degree but the final revelation remains quite effective nonethless.  I consider \\"The Shadow Out of Time,\\" written very near the end of Lovecraft's too short life, to be his masterpiece, and it does effectively tie together many of the themes of cosmic horror and alien influence he devoted so much of his time to.  A learned man loses almost five years of his life to amnesia, during which time a wholly secondary personality controls his body and masquerades as his old self.  After he returns to his body, he continually dreams of a strange world in which he is a \\"monster\\" setting forth a record of earth's history.  When he discovers a buried megalithic structure underneath the Australian desert corresponding exactly with his dream-images, he is faced with the realization that he underwent a transfer of consciousness with a Great Race of beings who garnered knowledge of space, time, and the universe eons before man's forebears crawled out of the earth's hot oceans.mprehensible outside forces on mankind.  \\"The Haunter of the Dark\\" and \\"The Thing on the Doorstep\\" highlight even more mysterious access points of the unknown into man's consciousness.  I must give special attention to my two favorite Lovecraft tales: \\"The Whisperer in Darkness\\" and \\"The Shadow Out of Time.\\"  Much of the action detailed in the first of these stories is related to the reader by way of letters exchanged between an isolated scholar in the hills of Vermont and the narrator, an expert in folk tales who is compelled to believe the ancient stories of alien influences he once preached against.  We see no action first-hand until the latter pages, when the protagonist finally visits his correspondent in Vermont and is presented with facts and examples proving the reality of advanced alien life forms; the evolving conclusion of the tale is perhaps predictable to a degree but the final revelation remains quite effective nonethless.  I consider \\"The Shadow Out of Time,\\" written very near the end of Lovecraft's too short life, to be his masterpiece, and it does effectively tie together many of the themes of cosmic horror and alien influence he devoted so much of his time to.  A learned man loses almost five years of his life to amnesia, during which time a wholly secondary personality controls his body and masquerades as his old self.  After he returns to his body, he continually dreams of a strange world in which he is a \\"monster\\" setting forth a record of earth's history.  When he discovers a buried megalithic structure underneath the Australian desert corresponding exactly with his dream-images, he is faced with the realization that he underwent a transfer of consciousness with a Great Race of beings who garnered knowledge of space, time, and the universe eons before man's forebears crawled out of the earth's hot oceans.the earth's hot oceans.	2002-03-29
1602672:US	53016962	R1GC7ZJCQ3OUOQ	0440508754	567618109	More Annotated H.P. Lovecraft	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Quality of stories far exceeds quality of annotations	While there are some rare nuggets of interesting information in the annotations, I find aspects of this collection to be disorganized, haphazard, and perplexing.  The stories, 10 in all, represent a hodgepodge of Lovecraft's greater and lesser writings, arranged chronologically from 1920's &quot;The Picture in the House&quot; to 1935's &quot;The Haunter of the Dark.&quot;  The editors apparently want to show the evolution of Lovecraft's writing over the years and choose not to build a collection based on any particular theme.  This makes for some interesting story selections: &quot;Herbert West--Reanimator&quot; is included, which somewhat surprised me since Lovecraft largely disavowed this work (the idea and format being prescribed by someone other than himself).  &quot;The Horror At Red Hook,&quot; a strangely unsuccessful story to my way of thinking, as well as the rather formulaic &quot;The Shunned House&quot; can also be found here.<br />On the plus side, some real classics are given the annotated treatment.  &quot;The Picture in the House&quot; is particularly welcome here, as it is perhaps Lovecraft's most horrifying short piece of fiction, and a copy of the referenced infamous picture is included for the reader to view.  &quot;The Hound&quot; is an effective if rather traditional horror tale, the annotations for which provide some important information on the French Decadents and other outre movements referenced in the story.  &quot;Cool Air&quot; is one of the author's most recognized stories, and the notes stress the fact that the story was written before air conditioning made its way into housing units.  &quot;Pickman's Model&quot; is still a disturbing read, even though the ending lacks the punch today it probably had in Lovecraft's time.  The three real jewels of this collection are the seminal works &quot;The Call of Cthulhu,&quot; &quot;The Thing on the Doorstep,&quot; and &quot;The Haunter of the Dark&quot; (one of Lovecraft's final stories and one often given less attention than I feel it deserves).  The annotations are very useful in a complex work such as &quot;The Call of Cthulhu,&quot; but in many cases they seem forced, contrived, and tiresome.  Much of the time, the notes simply define terms such as cyclopean or eldritch, point out obvious concepts and alternate spellings, and endlessly reference other notes in this and the first collection of annoted Lovecraft stories. Worst of all, this book has no table of contents, and one can only see for sure what stories are included by leafing through the pages of the text.<br />The comments on antiquarian concepts and literary references makes this book worthwhile, but I found it to be less enlightening than I expected.  Most of the annotations are unfortunately useless or repetitive.  Even the pictures included in these pages, largely of old churches and cemeteries, do not correspond exactly with Lovecraft's settings  The many quotes from Lovecraft's letters are interesting, but the letters can and should be read in their entirety in order to avoid mistaken impressions due to missing context.  The book is also afflicted with a number of typos, which is something I am sure Lovecraft himself would have railed against.  What matters are Lovecraft's stories, when it comes right down to it, and this collection does include some (but certainly not all) of his best fiction.  The annotations are welcome additions to the texts, but their usefulness varies widely from page to page.e often given less attention than I feel it deserves).  The annotations are very useful in a complex work such as &quot;The Call of Cthulhu,&quot; but in many cases they seem forced, contrived, and tiresome.  Much of the time, the notes simply define terms such as cyclopean or eldritch, point out obvious concepts and alternate spellings, and endlessly reference other notes in this and the first collection of annoted Lovecraft stories. Worst of all, this book has no table of contents, and one can only see for sure what stories are included by leafing through the pages of the text.  <br />The comments on antiquarian concepts and literary references makes this book worthwhile, but I found it to be less enlightening than I expected.  Most of the annotations are unfortunately useless or repetitive.  Even the pictures included in these pages, largely of old churches and cemeteries, do not correspond exactly with Lovecraft's settings  The many quotes from Lovecraft's letters are interesting, but the letters can and should be read in their entirety in order to avoid mistaken impressions due to missing context.  The book is also afflicted with a number of typos, which is something I am sure Lovecraft himself would have railed against.  What matters are Lovecraft's stories, when it comes right down to it, and this collection does include some (but certainly not all) of his best fiction.  The annotations are welcome additions to the texts, but their usefulness varies widely from page to page.	2002-03-28
1604096:US	53016962	R1FL7XGZM0D8V4	0345329457	427020672	At the Mountains of Madness: And Other Tales of Terror	Books	5	37	40	N	N	A masterpiece of horror plus extras	At the Mountains of Madness is one of Lovecraft's most singular, lengthy, and important pieces of fiction.  Set in the cold wastes of Antarctica, it takes us far afield from the mysterious world of Lovecraft's New England yet in close proximity to the mythical framework of his most noted writings.  A cadre of scientists from Miskatonic University travels to the coldest continent in order to pursue important geological work, but their mission is quickly transformed by one team's discovery of an ancient cavity housing hordes of scientific specimens at the base of an undiscovered range of weird, majestic mountains.  The most important specimens found in the pit are largely intact bodies of terrifically strange creatures having both animal and vegetable characteristics and sporting immense, bat-like wings.  As the first team begins a study of the creatures, the other party members rush to the campsite.  However, they find only death, destruction, and mystery there when they arrive.  Mysterious caves, peculiar shapes, and other incredible aspects of the adjacent mountains leads the expedition leader to dub them \\"the mountains of madness.\\"  Scientific curiosity impels two of the men to fly over those mountains to see what lies on the other side.  What they find is an empty, ancient city, which they set out to explore.  Statues and strange hieroglyphics lead the men to conclude that this city was once the most revered spot of the Old Ones mentioned in the Necronomicon and the Pnakotic Manuscripts, a city built long before man's first ancestors walked the earth.  As they move deeper within the bowels of the city, they discover that it is not quite deserted after all.  The story is a masterful one and provides us with a unique viewpoint concerning the race of ancient beings Lovecraft injected into his horror fiction.  It can become tedious at times, but these moments are rare.  The sense of mystery and trepidation rises consistently throughout, and the ending more than satisfied this particular reader.<br />There are three stories included alongside At the Mountains of Madness, all of them interesting but not among Lovecraft's greatest creations.  \\"The Shunned House\\" is basically a ghost story, albeit one featuring Lovecraftian images, themes, and atmosphere.  \\"The Dreams in the Witch-House\\" is almost stereotypical to some degree--a young man seeks out a place of mystery and dark history in an attempt to gain cosmic knowledge.  In this case, the young man is a mathematics student hoping to combine possible ancient knowledge of curved space and time with his powerful mathematical formulae with some hope of transcending the barriers of earth's three dimensions.  As can be expected, he soon finds himself in over his head, experiencing terrible things each night at the hands of a supposedly deceased old witch and her horrible rat-like familiar.  This story seemed to have great potential, yet I thought it sort of broke down during the latter half, lacking Lovecraft's usual ending flourish and flair.  The final story included here is \\"The Statement of Randolph Carter,\\" which relates a pivotal experience in the life of Randolph Carter, who would become Lovecraft's master of dreams and seeker of Kadath in the ice-cold wastes.<br />All of these stories are a basic staple of a Lovecraft diet, and At the Mountains of Madness is compulsory reading.  These stories can be found elsewhere and in more impressive packages, but this particular book is easy to acquire and relatively inexpensive.fied this particular reader.<br />There are three stories included alongside At the Mountains of Madness, all of them interesting but not among Lovecraft's greatest creations.  \\"The Shunned House\\" is basically a ghost story, albeit one featuring Lovecraftian images, themes, and atmosphere.  \\"The Dreams in the Witch-House\\" is almost stereotypical to some degree--a young man seeks out a place of mystery and dark history in an attempt to gain cosmic knowledge.  In this case, the young man is a mathematics student hoping to combine possible ancient knowledge of curved space and time with his powerful mathematical formulae with some hope of transcending the barriers of earth's three dimensions.  As can be expected, he soon finds himself in over his head, experiencing terrible things each night at the hands of a supposedly deceased old witch and her horrible rat-like familiar.  This story seemed to have great potential, yet I thought it sort of broke down during the latter half, lacking Lovecraft's usual ending flourish and flair.  The final story included here is \\"The Statement of Randolph Carter,\\" which relates a pivotal experience in the life of Randolph Carter, who would become Lovecraft's master of dreams and seeker of Kadath in the ice-cold wastes.  <br />All of these stories are a basic staple of a Lovecraft diet, and At the Mountains of Madness is compulsory reading.  These stories can be found elsewhere and in more impressive packages, but this particular book is easy to acquire and relatively inexpensive.	2002-03-27
1604304:US	53016962	R15EQ87I8DZRWS	0440506603	599818698	The Annotated H.P. Lovecraft	Books	4	39	44	N	N	A Mixed Blessing for HPL fans	Annotated Lovecraft--it sounds like a great idea, and it is.  However, many of the annotations in this book seem unnecessary and irrelevant.  Make no mistake, the stories themselves are some of HPL's best--&quot;The Rats in the Walls,&quot; &quot;The Colour Out of Space,&quot; &quot;The Dunwich Horror,&quot; and the short novel &quot;At the Mountains of Madness.&quot;  A pretty good introduction by S. T. Joshi starts things off, and the final pages include some noteworthy comments on the art of writing horror (taken from some of Lovecraft's letters) and a short essay on the translation of Lovecraft's work into radio, TV, and film.  This complementary material is very useful to someone just delving into the Lovecraftian universe, but the annotations are somewhat of a mixed bag.<br />While some of Joshi's annotations are quite interesting and useful, many seem to me to be totally unnecessary; some, such as biographical material, is interesting but immaterial to the stories themselves.  For every chemical Lovecraft mentions, Joshi gives us the chemical formula and scientific name, which is okay if somewhat excessive.  When some of the trademark Lovecraft terms pop up (e.g., eldritch), Joshi defines them; however, he also explains to us how aeon is an alternate spelling of eon, immensurable is synonomous with immeasurable, etc.--there are several unneccessary footnotes in each story explaining what seems to me to be patently obvious.  Joshi also is fond of taking a notion from the text and explaining how Lovecraft &quot;may have&quot; been thinking of this or that, often ending the note with a quote of several sentences from authors such as Poe, Bierce, etc.--sometimes valid, sometimes not, usually over-the-top.  He is also fond of referring back to his own footnotes from earlier in the book each and every time a certain subject is mentioned, which I find annoying.<br />Certainly, many of the annotations are useful, especially in the short novel At the Mountains of Madness.  A good bit of the scientific nomenclature and theories, as well as geographic names, have changed since Lovecraft's time, and Joshi does the reader a great service in explaining what Lovecraft meant, what he was referring to, etc.; such important data contribute much to an understanding of the material and proper placement of the settings of the tales.  While I would certainly recommend this book to Lovecraft readers, I would strongly suggest that anyone reading these stories for the first time ignore the footnotes completely.  Besides sometimes giving away plot points to the current story and others, the footnotes totally interrupt the flow of your reading.  To truly enjoy Lovecraft, you must immerse your mind in his language, structure, and flow.  I don't think I can read any of these stories too many times, so rereading is more of a pleasure than a pain.  Read these stories, move on to other things, then at some point come back and re-read the stories in conjunction with the annotations.  You may well have to grin and bear it through many of the unneccessary, repetitive, and not entirely relevant footnotes, but you will gain some rewarding insights and make some new discoveries in these rich otherworldly tales by horror's greatest writer.dness.  A good bit of the scientific nomenclature and theories, as well as geographic names, have changed since Lovecraft's time, and Joshi does the reader a great service in explaining what Lovecraft meant, what he was referring to, etc.; such important data contribute much to an understanding of the material and proper placement of the settings of the tales.  While I would certainly recommend this book to Lovecraft readers, I would strongly suggest that anyone reading these stories for the first time ignore the footnotes completely.  Besides sometimes giving away plot points to the current story and others, the footnotes totally interrupt the flow of your reading.  To truly enjoy Lovecraft, you must immerse your mind in his language, structure, and flow.  I don't think I can read any of these stories too many times, so rereading is more of a pleasure than a pain.  Read these stories, move on to other things, then at some point come back and re-read the stories in conjunction with the annotations.  You may well have to grin and bear it through many of the unneccessary, repetitive, and not entirely relevant footnotes, but you will gain some rewarding insights and make some new discoveries in these rich otherworldly tales by horror's greatest writer.	2002-03-26
1610765:US	53016962	R2P7KVTCEAYG64	0895872293	916463468	Ghost Dogs of the South	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A truly touching collection of ghost dog folk tales	This is such a wonderful book; it is just precious (a word I rarely use).  Ghost lovers, dog lovers, folktale lovers--this is your book.  The stories are wonderfully tongue-in-cheek, folksy tales that capture much of the oral traditions from whence they assuredly came.  This is in no way, I should say, a parapsychological study of ghosts; in a couple of stories, a ghost is only briefly mentioned.  This is all about the story and the story-telling.  We are treated to the internal thoughts of the characters, including the dogs, which might sound silly but works wonderfully.  Seeing things from the eyes of the dogs provides a lot of unique perspectives and leads to many smiles and laughs, and it strikes me that we can learn more about human nature (at least the good part of it) from dogs than from many people.  My favorite stories involve heroic actions performed by beloved dogs for their masters and even for strangers.  The dog who saved a child from getting run over by a car and who returns each Halloween to watch over trick-or-treaters is incredibly touching.  There are also some sad, even heartbreaking aspects to some stories--even the bravest, most loyal dogs sometimes pay the ultimate price for their devotion, and some are brutally and senselessly hurt and killed (as are other poor animals).  Any dog lover will tell you that the bond between a dog and that dog's human is stronger than death; those who scoff at such a thing will not enjoy this book.<br />I know all dog lovers are wonderful wherever they live, but the fact that these stories take place in the South certainly made them much more meaningful to me as a Southerner.  These are our stories; several of them come from places \\"just up the road a spell\\" from where I live.  Each tale features a tidbit of Southern history I was not aware of.  You certainly don't have to be a Southerner to enjoy this book, but those of us from Dixie will feel a little closer to these stories than others might.  You may notice that the term \\"Civil War\\" is never used in these pages; old-timers (and some of us younger folks) know to refer to that tragic period as the War Between the States.  There are a lot of little things like this that help make this book so special to me.  As an added bonus, you will learn the difference between ghost dogs and dog ghosts, and you will even get to find out why dogs' lips are black and why dogs chase cats.<br />Finally, this book is a work of art.  The care and effort that went into the production of this book deserve some kind of award.  Besides the touching cover photo of a boy and his dog, there are old-time photos of men and women, girls and boys, blacks and whites and their dogs interspersed throughout the book.  These pictures are not pictures of the dogs whose tales are told in these pages, but they give the book a wonderful, personal touch that evokes the kinds of feelings that are only understood by dog lovers the world over.hat the term \\"Civil War\\" is never used in these pages; old-timers (and some of us younger folks) know to refer to that tragic period as the War Between the States.  There are a lot of little things like this that help make this book so special to me.  As an added bonus, you will learn the difference between ghost dogs and dog ghosts, and you will even get to find out why dogs' lips are black and why dogs chase cats.  <br />Finally, this book is a work of art.  The care and effort that went into the production of this book deserve some kind of award.  Besides the touching cover photo of a boy and his dog, there are old-time photos of men and women, girls and boys, blacks and whites and their dogs interspersed throughout the book.  These pictures are not pictures of the dogs whose tales are told in these pages, but they give the book a wonderful, personal touch that evokes the kinds of feelings that are only understood by dog lovers the world over.	2002-03-21
1612335:US	53016962	R3CR75MZHNFPR9	0345326040	998292077	The Lurking Fear and Other Stories	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good buy if you can't find these stories elsewhere	It seems unfortunate to me that this collection's title comes from \\"The Lurking Fear,\\" a story which I rank very low among Lovecraft's efforts.  \\"Dagon\\" and \\"The Temple\\" are interesting and bear a connection with Cthulhu and his abode beneath the sea.  \\"Arthur Jermyn\\" reflects Lovecraft's interest in genealogy, history, as well as issues of miscegenation,  inbreeding, and hereditary degeneration over time.  Several stories can be classified among the dream image motif Lovecraft developed early on in his mature fiction, while \\"The Outsider\\" is quite allegorical and fairly easy to figure out in advance of the ending.  Two of the best selections to be found here are \\"The Hound\\" and \\"The Unnameable,\\" two ghost stories of a sort.  While \\"The Hound\\" is less than original, Lovecraft excels in describing the depravity of the minds of the two main characters and in creating a gruesome, well-defined inner sanctum of evil.  \\"The Unnameable\\" is akin to a campfire ghost tale, but the somewhat trivial conclusion robs it of some effectiveness.<br />It is rather odd to find \\"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\\" in this collection.  All of the other stories were written in or before 1927, while \\"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\\" bears a birth date of 1931; at this point in his career, Lovecraft was in his prime, and the effective honing of his writing within the intervening four years is quite apparent.  This story works on all levels.  A young traveler stops off in a strange city shunned by the outside community, discovers an incredibly disturbing town history, and eventually faces a frightful attack by terrifyingly fish-like beings.  The atmosphere of Innsmouth is incredibly rich and detailed--you can almost smell the terrible fish odor yourself--and the protagonist's escape attempt is wonderfully suspenseful.  The story culminates in a twist that I for one did not foresee, which was a welcome bonus to an already intriguing, satisfying read.<br />Most of these stories can be found elsewhere (including other Ballantine HPL publications), so even the greatest admirer of Lovecraft can survive without purchasing this item.  In addition, the publishing standards of this book seem somewhat low; \\"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\\" in particular deserves much better.  This book is great if you can't find these stories elsewhere, but dedicated readers of Lovecraft will want to have a product of higher publishing quality.ncluding other Ballantine HPL publications), so even the greatest admirer of Lovecraft can survive without purchasing this item.  In addition, the publishing standards of this book seem somewhat low; \\"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\\" in particular deserves much better.  This book is great if you can't find these stories elsewhere, but dedicated readers of Lovecraft will want to have a product of higher publishing quality.	2002-03-20
1616546:US	53016962	R211LRB182LHFD	0345354907	587914565	The Case of Charles Dexter Ward	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Lovecraft's most accessible horror tale	The Case of Charles Dexter Ward has long been one of my favorite books.  Charles Ward is an intellectual young recluse steeped in antiquarianism (much as Lovecraft himself was) who discovers horrible secrets about a distant ancestor, one consciously expunged from public records and histories at the end of his ill-begotten life.  Ward engulfs himself in a genealogical and historical pursuit of knowledge of this man,  a passion all the more emblazoned by each mysterious discovery he makes.  This ancestor, Joseph Curwen, was reputably a dabbler in the black arts who fled from Salem in advance of the remarkable witchcraft trials in that town.  Finding refuge in Providence, he lived a reclusive, mysterious life, made even more mysterious by his eternally youthful appearance.  A recluse by nature, he spent most nights at a farmhouse in Pawtuxet.  A continuing series of terrible cries and noises detected from that farmhouse, in conjunction with a number of missing locals and rumors of brutality against Negro slaves surreptitiously brought to that abode culminated in a raid by local citizens determined to put an end to whatever monstrous acts the strange man was committing.  No member of that raiding party ever dared discuss what he saw or heard during that awful night.  Ward's knowledge of Curwen is greatly advanced when he discovers an old painting of him (revealing a face virtually identical to his own) and a set of personal papers hidden behind that painting.  He then launches into terrible studies of the occult at home and abroad, then returns home to put to use the arcane secrets he has learned.  His doctor and father eventually grasp the nature of Ward's actions and unite themselves in a determination to block Joseph Curwen's ancient ambitions and plans to once more walk the earth with the aid of his great-great-great grandson.  The horrors they encounter in the pursuit of this objective are richly described and deliciously gruesome.<br />This story is pretty much straight horror with no deeply mythological overtones beyond those of necromancy.  Lovecraft does an excellent job of always pushing the action along while providing a rich, deep, historical background of both Curwen and young Charles Ward.  The ending chapter contains some of Lovecraft's most terror-inducing, menacingly evil scenes and is not to be missed by those with a gratuitous admiration for the macabre.  For those readers who find the Cthulhu Mythos stories too strangely remote and otherworldly, this novella provides a more practical, more individualistic vision of horror sure to affect the reader more viscerally than do mysterious references to the Ancient Ones.  Anyone considering reading Lovecraft for the first time would do well to make this book his introduction to the master of horror.  This is everything a horror story should be.straight horror with no deeply mythological overtones beyond those of necromancy.  Lovecraft does an excellent job of always pushing the action along while providing a rich, deep, historical background of both Curwen and young Charles Ward.  The ending chapter contains some of Lovecraft's most terror-inducing, menacingly evil scenes and is not to be missed by those with a gratuitous admiration for the macabre.  For those readers who find the Cthulhu Mythos stories too strangely remote and otherworldly, this novella provides a more practical, more individualistic vision of horror sure to affect the reader more viscerally than do mysterious references to the Ancient Ones.  Anyone considering reading Lovecraft for the first time would do well to make this book his introduction to the master of horror.  This is everything a horror story should be.	2002-03-17
1617349:US	53016962	R28FJJ1G2WTY84	0345337794	443644844	The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Not my favorite but perhaps HPL's best	&quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath&quot; is perhaps Lovecraft's greatest piece of fiction; it certainly is a culmination of the Dunsanian fantasy pieces he wrote early in his career, several of which are also featured in this collection.  While I recognize the seminal importance of &quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath,&quot; I must also say that I find it a particularly difficult read; if my powers of concentration are less than 100%, I simply can't make heads or tails of the story.  Perhaps my trouble is a personal idiosyncrasy, but this novella is certainly complex and not well suited for the casual reader.  The story describes Randolph Carter's obsessive search for the abode of earth's gods on mystical Kadath and his determination to find and abide in a glorious city he has seen in his dreams.  Carter is a proficient dreamer, and his journey introduces us to important denizens and personalities in the dream world.  Unafraid, Carter sets himself to brave a meeting even with Nyarlathotep, the Crawling Chaos.  There are monstrous creatures and horrible vistas brought to life in these pages, but the entire dreamlike atmosphere of the story seems to rise up and cover my mind with mists that force me to reread passages in order to maintain my focus.  While I don't necessarily enjoy this story in the normal sense of the word, I do regard it as a grand achievement by the author.<br />The other stories in the collection also take us to the dream world created by Lovecraft.  &quot;The Silver Key&quot; and &quot;Through the Gates of the Silver Key&quot; (written in collaboration with E. Hoffman Price) reveal much of the history of Randolph Carter and offer glimpses of other dream quests he embarked on in life.  &quot;Celephais&quot; tells of the dream world town ruled by King Kuranes, a former earthly acquaintance of Randolph Carter, and &quot;The Strange High House in the Mist&quot; contains references to the dream world Carter explored.  Only &quot;The White Ship&quot; does not relate in some way to Carter's travels.<br />One simply should not read &quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath&quot; without first reading a number of other related stories, several of which are unfortunately not contained in this volume (such as &quot;The Other Gods,&quot; &quot;The Cats of Ulthar,&quot; &quot;Pickman's Model,&quot; and most especially &quot;The Statement of Randolph Carter&quot;).  This book requires work on the part of the reader due to its unique complexity.  Lovecraft's horror stories are much more appealing to me than the fantasy stories collected here, yet Lovecraft's true genius and talent are most easily discerned by a reading of &quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath.&quot;quot; does not relate in some way to Carter's travels.  <br />One simply should not read &quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath&quot; without first reading a number of other related stories, several of which are unfortunately not contained in this volume (such as &quot;The Other Gods,&quot; &quot;The Cats of Ulthar,&quot; &quot;Pickman's Model,&quot; and most especially &quot;The Statement of Randolph Carter&quot;).  This book requires work on the part of the reader due to its unique complexity.  Lovecraft's horror stories are much more appealing to me than the fantasy stories collected here, yet Lovecraft's true genius and talent are most easily discerned by a reading of &quot;The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath.&quot;	2002-03-16
1620606:US	53016962	RSYBICF1DP71B	0345336615	572091602	The Tomb and Other Tales	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating, but Lovecraft beginners should start elsewhere	In terms of readability or pure enjoyment, this title ranks low among the myriad Lovecraft titles.  However, for the Lovecraft devotee, it offers enlightening insights into the author's writing.  There is quite a hodge-podge of tales to be found in these pages.  &quot;The Tomb&quot; is a fairly standard horror piece, &quot;Imprisoned With the Pharoahs&quot; is a story ghost written for Harry Houdini which I count among Lovecraft's lesser tales, &quot;In the Walls of Eryx&quot; is a compelling, uniquely Lovecraftian science fiction story set on Venus.  &quot;The Horror of Red Hook,&quot; while harkening to the types of unworldly themes Lovecraft came to be known for, is a somewhat dense story which I had unaccustomed trouble reading--largely, I feel, because it was written in the third person.  &quot;The Festival,&quot; &quot;He,&quot; and &quot;The Strange High House in the Mist&quot; concern ancient rites and hints of unearthly terrors while also hinting at the dream worlds that Lovecraft so often contemplated; not surprisingly, I find these stories to be the best ones in this collection.<br />The really interesting parts of this book consist of a number of early tales and fragments.  There are four stories Lovecraft wrote during his teens, and it is almost incredible to see the distinctive Lovecraft voice and style so well developed at such an early age.  &quot;Poetry and the Gods&quot; and &quot;The Street&quot; are unusual and bear an ethereal air that did not find its way into his mature writings, while &quot;The Beast in the Cave&quot; and &quot;The Alchemist&quot; foreshadow the stories whose fame we now celebrate.  The four story fragments are fascinating; though incomplete, they easily fit into a Lovecraftian world in that certain sometimes obscure references point to elements, characters, and themes developed more fully in other stories.  One begins to see that all of Lovecraft's tales, Mythos and non-Mythos, share a mysterious thread or foundation.  It is for this reason that I would not recommend reading this book without having read some of Lovecraft's better known stories.  Certainly, those not yet fascinated by Lovecraft will reap small rewards from reading the fragments and early writings, and the other tales collected here are much less satisfying than those of the Cthulhu Mythos.is for this reason that I would not recommend reading this book without having read some of Lovecraft's better known stories.  Certainly, those not yet fascinated by Lovecraft will reap small rewards from reading the fragments and early writings, and the other tales collected here are much less satisfying than those of the Cthulhu Mythos.	2002-03-13
1623965:US	53016962	R1GHZK8WGVREKH	0345331052	33760916	The Doom That Came to Sarnath (A Del Rey book)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Lovecraft stories too often overlooked	This is a wonderful collection of some of Lovecraft's lesser known works, the majority of which come from his earlier writings.  It is actually a pretty eclectic sampling of styles.  One finds traditional horror, dream-enshrouded tales of unknown vistas, short &quot;prose poems,&quot; collaborations with other writers, and even a science fiction story.  While none of these stories can claim a place in the Cthulhu Mythos, several do presage its beginnings and offer glimpses of the universe of the Great Old Ones.  &quot;Nyarlathotep&quot; introduces us to that dark god, &quot;The Festival&quot; refers to mouldy tomes such as the Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhezred and offers us a glimpse of pagan practices, Polaris speaks of the Pnakotic manuscripts, and &quot;The Nameless City&quot; takes us deep underneath the desert sands to a forgotten abode of ancient, nonhuman creatures.  Many of the tales take us to Dunsanian dream worlds where beauty and unearthly horror are separated by a veil of nothingness.  &quot;In the Walls of Eryx,&quot; cowritten with Kenneth Sterling, is very interesting in that it represents Lovecraft's only real foray into science fiction, a more than successful foray in my opinion.  The only story I find less than first-rate is the tale &quot;Imprisoned With the Pharoahs,&quot; a work ghost-written for Harry Houdini--passed off as a true story of the great magician's visit to Giza's pyramids; Houdini's presence as the protagonist makes the story seem forced and does not allow me to fully appreciate the elements of horror Lovecraft injects into the tale.<br />Lovecraft is, to some degree, an acquired taste, and for that reason I would not recommend this book for first-time readers.  Any fan of Lovecraft will delight in these tales and mentally take note of every element that relates to the whole of his fiction, but the Lovecraft initiate may well become frustrated with the Dunsanian elements of many of these stories and may not fully appreciate the remarkable craftsmanship of the author; furthermore, the collaborations in this collection are clearly not Lovecraft's greatest works.  Those looking for &quot;horror&quot; may well be disappointed, as will those seeking an introduction to the Cthulhu Mythos.  While these stories can surely inspire delight and devotion among new Lovecraft readers, it is my feeling that they can be fully appreciated and understood only by those who are already familiar with Lovecraft's greater body of work.ate the remarkable craftsmanship of the author; furthermore, the collaborations in this collection are clearly not Lovecraft's greatest works.  Those looking for &quot;horror&quot; may well be disappointed, as will those seeking an introduction to the Cthulhu Mythos.  While these stories can surely inspire delight and devotion among new Lovecraft readers, it is my feeling that they can be fully appreciated and understood only by those who are already familiar with Lovecraft's greater body of work.	2002-03-11
1625743:US	53016962	RXNOAVXRP5ZGS	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A masterpiece of science fiction and literature	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a masterful science fiction classic and the crowning achievement of Verne's impressive literary legacy.  While the story itself is absorbing, it is the character of the enigmatic Captain Nemo that makes this novel so successful.  Many of the characters we meet in Verne's fiction are one-dimensional; while eccentric, a man like Professor Lidenbrock in Journey to the Centre of the Earth is easy to understand, seemingly driven by science and nothing else.  In contrast, Captain Nemo is an incredibly complex man whom neither the reader nor the protagonist is ever really able to understand.  He has forsaken all of humanity and retreated beneath the sea, yet he shows great compassion to his crewmen and to the poor on earth; he is generally self-absorbed and emotionless, yet we see glimpses of an emotional trauma that constantly afflicts him and is capable of destroying him.  He has suffered a great loss at some point in his life, and his sorrow is matched only by a drive for vengeance against his unnamed oppressors.  Captain Nemo is one of the most interesting, delightfully mysterious characters in all of literature.<br />As for the story, a naturalist, his assistant, and a harpooner join a party in search of a giant sea creature which has attacked a couple of ships.  They are knocked overboard and find themselves saved by the monster, which turns out to be a submarine manned by a mysterious crew of sailors.  Captain Nemo requires them to stay on board the Nautilus permanently because he wants to keep the existence of his submarine a secret from the world. The three men sail on the Nautilus for ten months, exploring the world's oceans and seas.  They marvel at the animal life under the waves; explore underground forests, oyster beds, deep trenches; gaze with somber eyes at great numbers of sunken vessels; fight off giant squids and dangerous sharks; cast their eyes upon the sunken continent of Atlantis; and burrow underneath the polar ice caps to emerge at the South Pole.  All the while, they hope to escape and return to their homelands, although the naturalist hesitates to leave his traveling laboratory until such a time as Captain Nemo's emotions become dangerously unbalanced.<br />All in all, this is an incredibly rich, fascinating novel with a poignant yet powerful conclusion.  Contemporary readers must have been overpowered by Verne's descriptions of this unknown sailing vessel and the exploits the sub was capable of.  That magical element is missing from modern reader's reactions, but this does little to hinder the overall effect of the story.  There is one negative aspect to the book--the naturalist and his assistant go out of their way to name and catalogue virtually every animal, mineral, and plant they discover.  This is interesting to a point, but the plot often finds itself bogged down for a couple of pages while the reader is bombarded with a veritable encyclopedia of scientific names which are virtually unpronounceable and largely meaningless to his/her ears.  These interludes are the only things slowing down the story, however.  It is a joy to read the adventures these men have under the sea, and it is even more fascinating to ponder the mind of Captain Nemo.  Even the unseen depths of the sea cannot offer the reader a mystery as deep and powerful as that of the Nautilus' exceptional captain.ps to emerge at the South Pole.  All the while, they hope to escape and return to their homelands, although the naturalist hesitates to leave his traveling laboratory until such a time as Captain Nemo's emotions become dangerously unbalanced.<br />All in all, this is an incredibly rich, fascinating novel with a poignant yet powerful conclusion.  Contemporary readers must have been overpowered by Verne's descriptions of this unknown sailing vessel and the exploits the sub was capable of.  That magical element is missing from modern reader's reactions, but this does little to hinder the overall effect of the story.  There is one negative aspect to the book--the naturalist and his assistant go out of their way to name and catalogue virtually every animal, mineral, and plant they discover.  This is interesting to a point, but the plot often finds itself bogged down for a couple of pages while the reader is bombarded with a veritable encyclopedia of scientific names which are virtually unpronounceable and largely meaningless to his/her ears.  These interludes are the only things slowing down the story, however.  It is a joy to read the adventures these men have under the sea, and it is even more fascinating to ponder the mind of Captain Nemo.  Even the unseen depths of the sea cannot offer the reader a mystery as deep and powerful as that of the Nautilus' exceptional captain.	2002-03-10
1629709:US	53016962	R1Y155INVPI0DS	0883610922	938627786	Haunted Heartland	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A wonderful collection of ghost stories	Who doesn't enjoy a good ghost story?  For the most part, it doesn't even matter if the story is true or not.  Perhaps the best thing about this book is the fact that its authors are not trying to prove or disprove any of the stories.  Each tale speaks for itself.  Some are somewhat funny, almost all of them are weird, and a few of them are downright spooky.  As an added bonus, we learn a little bit about the history of the American Midwest; most of the stories carry the reader back a century or more in time.  There are ten to fifteen tales from each of the following states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, and Wisconsin.  For the most part, all of the stories are hum-dingers.  About a dozen of them struck me as pretty scary, so I would not recommend this book as a late night read except for those of more stalwart heart than I possess.  There are a couple of stories that don't fit into the typical haunting milieu, but such stories are so interesting that the authors surely could not resist adding them to the collection.  For the most part, though, these tales reflect hauntings in the traditional sense, and many contain accounts of actual sightings of ghostly figures.  The authors do a very good job in telling the stories, giving us enough information to appreciate and understand each unique mystery while refraining from offering any conclusions of their own.  You can read a few tales at a time or sit back and dive into large sections all at once; the organization of the tales by their respective states of origin is well-done and helps to maintain a cohesive framework to the entire book.  I was thoroughly entertained and intrigued from beginning to end.	2002-03-06
1631460:US	53016962	R2P4UCPQ7C5C72	0140022651	798845768	Journey to the Centre of the Earth	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Verne's most thrilling novel	This book proves Verne's greatness as a writer of fiction.  The science in this science fiction flies largely in the face of modern science, yet the read is no less gripping today than it was in its infancy.  The story is pretty simple.  Professor Lidenbrock, a neurotically impatient scientist, discovers a cryptic manuscript written by a long-dead explorer; with the help of his nephew, he decodes the cryptogram to read an account of a journey to the center of the earth begun beneath a dormant volcano in Iceland.  The nephew, Axel, a talented geologist and mineralogist himself, refuses to believe that the core of the earth is not exceedingly hot; additionally, he cares more about Grauben, the eccentric professor's ward, than risking his life on a scientific adventure.  He proves unable to dissuade his uncle and thus joins with him on a journey to Iceland.  There, they hire a stoic Icelander to lead them down into the earth. Most of the action takes place underground, with the adventurers suffering several trials, daring risks, and finally discovering a whole new world hidden miles below the earth's crust.  The ultimate trial and danger they face consists of returning to the surface.<br />Axel narrates the story, and the strength of the novel lies in his character.  The professor and the Icelandic guide are unusual personalities, but Axel is very real and easy to relate to.  He really does not want to go in the first place, and he is most liable to greet dangers and risks by bemoaning his fate and declaring his party done for in their foolish efforts.  It is he who suffers the most privation when the men's water runs out, and it is he who finds himself lost in the utter blackness of the caverns for three days.  When things are going well, though, Axel becomes wildly excited about the mission and temporarily forgets about his fears.  This all goes to make him a very sympathetic character.  Without him, the story would be a rather dispassionate account of an impossible journey by bland, unbelievable characters.  You do have to shift your mind into low gear a few times when the characters begin speaking about the different types of minerals and rocks they are encountering, but overall the plot is rather thrilling, and you cannot help but begin early on trying to ascertain a way in which the intrepid explorers can return to share their discoveries with a skeptical scientific community.  Verne knows how to tell a story, and you don't have to know a single thing about science to enjoy this novel immensely.journey by bland, unbelievable characters.  You do have to shift your mind into low gear a few times when the characters begin speaking about the different types of minerals and rocks they are encountering, but overall the plot is rather thrilling, and you cannot help but begin early on trying to ascertain a way in which the intrepid explorers can return to share their discoveries with a skeptical scientific community.  Verne knows how to tell a story, and you don't have to know a single thing about science to enjoy this novel immensely.	2002-03-05
1634782:US	53016962	R1DNI4IDBEMOMU	1557736766	581363638	Succubi	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Blood aplenty, but the plot's anemic	Edward Lee is definitely an acquired taste.  He has taken the genre of \\"gross out\\" horror to new heights (or depths).  On its own merits, this particular book just did not win me over.  I like blood and gore as much as the next guy, but this book over-presents the horrible aspects of the story.  The main character has a recurring nightmare of giving birth among a blood-soaked, murderous, orgiastic audience night after night, and the reader is forced to read the same description of that nightmare over and over and over again.  Even more annoying is the liberal use of a mysterious, largely incomprehensible language--while this ancient, earthen language is important to the story, its constant appearances in the text prove pretty annoying (especially before any of the terms are defined for the reader) .  No character was developed in such a way that I could like or care about him/her, and the thoughts and actions of individuals oftentimes did not seem plausible to me at all.  The role played by the protagonist's daughter is not fleshed out enough for me, either--her quick incorporation into the peculiar ways of the community happens much too quickly and without sufficient justification.  I will give credit to the author for a decent ending.  I thought I saw the end coming very early on in the novel; happily, I found that my conclusions were not quite on target after all (I was still close, though).<br /><br />Many aspects of this novel can certainly be called disgusting, morally repugnant, obscene--you name it Almost everyone will be disgusted by this author's writing--while many will refuse to read him, a good many will want to read him for this reason alone.  If extreme horror is what you are after, you will find it in these pages.  However, the almost constant allusions to and overt examples of sexual matters become tiresome if not aggravating and eventually sickening, as it seems that many pages were written solely as a means for Lee to indulge himself in  his own sexual fantasies, with little or no concern for the plot at all.al fantasies, with little or no concern for the plot at all.	2002-03-02
1635608:US	53016962	R22LYSCZAL6SHB	078601430X	180638404	The Chosen	Books	1	9	16	N	N	A book with no redeeming quality whatsoever	Were it not for a neurotic obsession with finishing any book I start, I would never had read this whole novel.  About the only good thing I can say about The Chosen is that it is not boring.  I can add that it is also not erotic at all, nor is it scary.  Vera, the protagonist, is a restaurant manager soon to be married.  Out of the blue, she is offered a job managing a restaurant at a remote inn for an exorbitant salary.  She turns down the offer because of her fianc&eacute;e; arriving home, she finds her fianc&eacute;e \\"entertaining\\" a girl and a hermaphrodite.  She then takes the new job and moves out of town, bringing along three of her coworker friends to run the place.  The restaurant and the connecting inn just happen to have once been a sanitarium where the patients were tortured and brutalized.  Don't let the back cover mislead you into expecting some haunted house aspects to the story--the sounds heard in the night are judged to be the doors of an elevator opening and closing, and nothing ghostly happens at all.  Basically, we are treated to literally hundreds of pages of demonic, disgusting, pointless sex acts which are anything but erotic.  I don't mind reading scenes with sex and violence, but the reader of this book is simply deluged with the same lewd descriptions over and over again. Vera begins having erotic nightmares--that's fine, but I don't need to read the same description of the whole nightmare twenty-something times.  The characters themselves are superficial and unsympathetic, seemingly capable of expressing anger, sexual desire, and nothing more.  Two of the men can only communicate by throwing insulting sexual innuendoes at each other, and their material is below that of even the most dirty-minded juvenile.<br />There is a story of sorts buried in the morass of sexual descriptions.  Every so often, it seems like it might get interesting, but alas it never does.  Furthermore, the author does not even bother to tie up many loose ends.  The most obvious question harkens to the title itself--Vera was \\"the chosen,\\" apparently, yet I never found out why she was chosen or exactly what she was chosen for.  Some of the basic premises of the plot itself simply make no sense.  One thing I found most galling occurred in the last few pages of the book--Vera refers to something that she has no knowledge of whatsoever because the only person to have discovered it is one of the other characters.<br />I could go on and on.  Suffice it to say, this book is badly written and reeks of adolescence.  As is typical with Lee, the plot seems to exist only for the purpose of providing him with a means of  unleashing his deep torrents of sexual fantasies.  My copy has a number of typos and grammatical errors in it, but I can hardly blame an editor for letting these things slip because no one should have to read this novel thoroughly.  I hate to criticize a novel in such harsh terms, but The Chosen may well be the worst book I have ever read.question harkens to the title itself--Vera was \\"the chosen,\\" apparently, yet I never found out why she was chosen or exactly what she was chosen for.  Some of the basic premises of the plot itself simply make no sense.  One thing I found most galling occurred in the last few pages of the book--Vera refers to something that she has no knowledge of whatsoever because the only person to have discovered it is one of the other characters.  <br />I could go on and on.  Suffice it to say, this book is badly written and reeks of adolescence.  As is typical with Lee, the plot seems to exist only for the purpose of providing him with a means of  unleashing his deep torrents of sexual fantasies.  My copy has a number of typos and grammatical errors in it, but I can hardly blame an editor for letting these things slip because no one should have to read this novel thoroughly.  I hate to criticize a novel in such harsh terms, but The Chosen may well be the worst book I have ever read.	2002-03-02
1638383:US	53016962	R3CAARY34R9RYR	0226910016	797957625	A Study of War, 2nd Edition (Midway Reprint)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Interesting, but arguments are invalid for post-WWII world	Quincy Wright attempted to examine the origins and evolution of warfare and to thereupon apply evident generalizations in hopes of controlling modern \\"oscillations of war and peace.\\"  He offered many definitions of \\"war,\\" conceding the fact that war in some sense has always been present in human culture.  Interestingly, he contended that only in the most modern age had war been seen as a \\"problem\\" by a significant percentage of the world's population.  Clearly, his ultimate goal was to \\"suggest political, economic, and social changes which might reduce the frequency of war or eliminate it altogether.\\"  As a social scientist, he qualifies himself as a man able to combine theory with correlative action.<br /><br />The work is very much a product of its historical era.  As he says, he began the work in 1926, the illusory age between world wars, and published it in 1942, when World War II was erupting across the world.  The belligerent activities in and after 1939 did not fully overwhelm his simplistic hopes for peace.  Only then, when innovations in communications and technology made possible the uniting of all peoples, was \\"world peace\\" conceivable.  He seemed to argue for a \\"league of nations,\\" that could act as one body to police any aggressor polities on the world stage.  He tried to argue that war could be controlled by man because it was, after all, fundamentally a form of social behavior.<br /><br />Wright took a scientific, orderly approach to the subject of understanding war.  He traced the history and evolution of warfare through four basic stages: namely, warfare of animal, primitive, civilized, and modern dimensions.  These stages were important in a comparative sense, but his primary focus was on the origin, theory, practice, and effectiveness of modern warfare.  He identified four periods of modern civilization, tracing his contemporary era back to the post-1914 period.  He identified the usefulness of propaganda in driving warfare, but his analysis precludes its full application to the intensified racism and nationalism of Nazi Germany and imperial Japan.  While identifying major trends, such as the creation of a league of united nations, Wright's analysis is not directly applicable to the Cold War and post-Cold War eras.  Furthermore, today's ethnic warfare seems to invalidate Wright's conception of war as an instigator of political change.<br /><br />Ultimately, Wright seems to have been stonewalled by the contradictions of the twentieth century, especially the emergence of totalitarianism.  So long as the idea of national sovereignty exists, the world-community cannot be successfully integrated.  While ethnic tension, class conflict, and religious persecution exist within societies, national sovereignty itself remains tenuous.  Throughout history, as Wright concedes, progress and warfare have gone hand in hand; the great powers have been aggressors.  Progress breeds independence, which eventually alienates a society; war is the great leveler.  In the end, Wright's hopes for a future peace engineered by human cooperation seem illusory and nave.ts full application to the intensified racism and nationalism of Nazi Germany and imperial Japan.  While identifying major trends, such as the creation of a league of united nations, Wright's analysis is not directly applicable to the Cold War and post-Cold War eras.  Furthermore, today's ethnic warfare seems to invalidate Wright's conception of war as an instigator of political change.  <BR> <BR>Ultimately, Wright seems to have been stonewalled by the contradictions of the twentieth century, especially the emergence of totalitarianism.  So long as the idea of national sovereignty exists, the world-community cannot be successfully integrated.  While ethnic tension, class conflict, and religious persecution exist within societies, national sovereignty itself remains tenuous.  Throughout history, as Wright concedes, progress and warfare have gone hand in hand; the great powers have been aggressors.  Progress breeds independence, which eventually alienates a society; war is the great leveler.  In the end, Wright's hopes for a future peace engineered by human cooperation seem illusory and nave.	2002-02-27
1638672:US	53016962	R3Q9JTXJRG6XDT	1557863687	246663617	Coercion, Capital and European States, A.D. 990 - 1992	Books	5	66	66	N	N	A difficult but highly rewarding read	In these days of historical specialization, a comprehensive treatment of any subject is most welcome, whatever its faults.  Tilly has indeed set himself a daunting task, namely to explain the development of state formation in Europe over the last millennium; specifically, he seeks to explain why a pattern of divergent state formations ultimately converged in the form of the modern nation-state.  To the chagrin of social scientists, he assumes that war has always been the central object of the state; economic/political determinism is complementary but subordinate.  Given that the nation-state has enjoyed the greatest military success throughout the centuries, all states have been forced either to move in that direction or cease to exist.<br /><br />Tilly makes many good points.  He reminds us that rulers did not operate with a specific plan of state formation in mind--they created states only in conjunction with certain of their subjects.  Given geographic and temporal circumstances, rulers could only pursue increasingly costly military ventures by bargaining with power blocks within their subject population for the necessary resources--soldiers, rations, etc.  Where capital was not accumulated and concentrated, the balance of power lay with landowners.  Where a city had emerged with a concentration of capital, proto-capitalists held power. Where capital was unavailable, the ruler could resort to methods of coercion of his subjects.  Political and economic conditions dictated the bargaining terms with which the ruler sought to win support for his military goals.  Tilly argues that different combinations of coercion and capital created diverse types of states.  As the demands of war increased, the power blocks which rulers depended on gained more and more advantage over them, thus winning for themselves concessions that increased their standing in the state's government.  In effect, the era of bureaucratization was born.  The means of capitalization and coercion were incorporated into the structure of the state, and thus was born the nation-state.  Essentially, the nation-state has proven to be the best at mobilizing and fighting wars, leading lesser states to either emulate it or risk being conquered by it.<br /><br />Tilly offers a somewhat simplistic argument, acknowledging the criticisms he duly expects will come.  State formation is portrayed as little more than an afterthought of warmongering.  The accumulation of royal concessions in time laid the foundation for permanent infrastructure.  By seeking revenues and compliance from a subject population, rulers eventually found themselves having to provide for their subjects' welfare--via production, distribution, transportation, etc.  In the most modern states, social spending now outweighs military spending; this has served to shorten the length of wars while greatly increasing their intensity. A major contribution of this book is its implication that social history by itself does not explain the emergence of modern states and societies.  Some will find Tilly's  simplistic model untenable, but I find it quite logical and compelling.  His argument (and the wealth of resources on which he draws) certainly warrants serious thought on the part of the reader.ncorporated into the structure of the state, and thus was born the nation-state.  Essentially, the nation-state has proven to be the best at mobilizing and fighting wars, leading lesser states to either emulate it or risk being conquered by it. <BR> <BR>Tilly offers a somewhat simplistic argument, acknowledging the criticisms he duly expects will come.  State formation is portrayed as little more than an afterthought of warmongering.  The accumulation of royal concessions in time laid the foundation for permanent infrastructure.  By seeking revenues and compliance from a subject population, rulers eventually found themselves having to provide for their subjects' welfare--via production, distribution, transportation, etc.  In the most modern states, social spending now outweighs military spending; this has served to shorten the length of wars while greatly increasing their intensity. A major contribution of this book is its implication that social history by itself does not explain the emergence of modern states and societies.  Some will find Tilly's  simplistic model untenable, but I find it quite logical and compelling.  His argument (and the wealth of resources on which he draws) certainly warrants serious thought on the part of the reader.	2002-02-27
1638761:US	53016962	R1JBK3DIN2P4R5	0140012788	324630215	The Reason Why: The Story of the Fatal Charge of the Light Brigade	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Still the best account of the Charge of the Light Brigade	The Reason Why remains the classic study of the intriguing and sadly ludicrous episode in military history known as the Charge of the Light Brigade.  The author, coming from an Army family and relying heavily on the writings of officers, largely neglects the experience of the private soldier and concentrates on the main characters in the drama.  The story is dominated by these extraordinary personalities, serving as a reminder that war is an inherently human drama.  On a second level, it is a criticism of the privilege system of the British Army of the mid-nineteenth century.  In retrospect, one is hard pressed to believe such a purchase system could have ever won a victory at Waterloo.  Intolerant aristocrats with no experience in battle, paltry leadership skills, and maddening unconcern for the soldiers under their command, bought their commissions.  The Charge of the Light Brigade illuminated all of the faults of the system and proved that bravery alone was insufficient for victory.  While human blunders led to the debacle that was the Charge of the Light Brigade, the British military system was intrinsically to blame.<br /><br />The heart of this book concerns the relationship between society at large and the military.  Military leaders feared nothing so much as public scrutiny, for widespread discontent could lead to political interference and, indeed, political control of the army.  Whether in dealing with the incorrigible personalities of Lords Lucan and Cardigan or in covering up the series of blunders that resulted in the sacrificial ride of the Light Brigade, the military leadership acted with the overriding principle of preserving the Army from governmental control.<br /><br />The embarrassments of the Crimean campaign proved uncontainable.  A great source of difficulty was the incompetence of the Army staff; rank and privilege were held to be superior to actual experience.  When these difficulties led to humiliation and defeat, the commanders' concern was not with the men they had lost nor the future of the war effort; to the exclusion of these, their main concern was that bad publicity would appear in Britain, that the public would hear of the lack of success, that the House would begin to ask questions of the military leadership, that the press would begin to criticize the Army.  This great fear of political interference was realized in the aftermath of the Crimean War.  The author portrays this as the one positive effect engendered by the War effort.  A new era of military reform was born in Britain, Europe, and America.  Experience now became a prerequisite for command, and officers were trained in staff colleges.  The author's final point is that, above all, the treatment of the private soldier changed as the military system was humanized to some degree. Her assertion that at the end of the Crimean War the private soldier was regarded as a hero seems rather bold, but it is clear that he was no longer seen as a nonhuman tool of his commanders' designs.with the men they had lost nor the future of the war effort; to the exclusion of these, their main concern was that bad publicity would appear in Britain, that the public would hear of the lack of success, that the House would begin to ask questions of the military leadership, that the press would begin to criticize the Army.  This great fear of political interference was realized in the aftermath of the Crimean War.  The author portrays this as the one positive effect engendered by the War effort.  A new era of military reform was born in Britain, Europe, and America.  Experience now became a prerequisite for command, and officers were trained in staff colleges.  The author's final point is that, above all, the treatment of the private soldier changed as the military system was humanized to some degree. Her assertion that at the end of the Crimean War the private soldier was regarded as a hero seems rather bold, but it is clear that he was no longer seen as a nonhuman tool of his commanders' designs.	2002-02-27
1638918:US	53016962	R2Z67Q2U1NEJOJ	1570020159	970125549	The Food of the Gods	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A classic story of man vs science	Ever the visionary, H.G. Wells here presents the reader with a study of the classic conflict between Science and Man.  I could never really figure out where Wells stands on this issue in these pages, and perhaps he sits on the fence, providing convincing arguments on both sides of the struggle.  Interestingly, the book begins with a number of biting, satirical remarks about science and scientists; they are called men of &quot;obvious littlenesses&quot; who cannot see outside the bounds of the narrow world they live in; their &quot;greatness&quot; only inspires dislike among their peers and translates not at all to the masses.  I was in fact rather shocked to see Wells characterize men of science in such a forcible way.  In terms of the story, two scientists discover the recipe for a growth agent which they see as a great benefit for the future life of man on earth--food sources can be grown in exceedingly abundant numbers, thus providing for the welfare of all men.  They set out to experiment by purchasing a small farm and feeding the new food, spontaneously dubbed Food of the Gods, to a number of hens.  Unfortunately, the pair hired to see after the farm are quite inefficient, and the food finds it way to a number of unfortunate locations.  Huge wasps appear to terrify the local community; the hens eventually escape and run amuck, gigantic creeping plants begin to take over various areas of land, and then gigantic rats torment the local population.  The farm and its creations are forcibly cleaned up, but the story by no means ends there.<br />The two scientists continue work on the food with the intent of controlling its use, but a neighboring doctor forces his way into their lives and launches a public campaign for their product.  This, plus the fact that the food continues to find its way to different places (with the resulting consequences of huge new pests and pestilences) contributes to a growing public reaction against the food, a movement that will eventually place a &quot;giant-killer&quot; in political control of the country.  Meanwhile, for reasons I never really understood, the sons of the scientists (as well as a few more children) are given the food and eventually grow in excess of forty feet tall.  The story actually becomes quite powerful when describing the lives of these young giants.  While some are totally isolated and, for a time, &quot;controlled,&quot; others actually attempt to do things for the &quot;pygmies,&quot; such as building houses, creating reservoirs, generating electrical power.  In every case they are chastised by the people, who complain about property rights, zoning laws, and other things that the giants simply don't understand.  The giants look at the population and see homelessness, perpetual drunkenness, poverty, and other social ills, and they want to help; sadly, every attempt to serve is met with more consternation and increased restraints on their movements.  Eventually, the anti-giants league takes power and sets out to rid their world of the giants through either exile or war.  Their first victim is a poor young giant who tired of the perpetual work he was compelled to perform and set out to see the life he had been hidden from.  He cannot understand humanity at all, and his questions about normal life are ignored; his end is tragic and frankly a sad indictment on mankind.  The novel does not end very satisfactorily--the lines have been drawn, but the ultimate outcome of the struggle is left unanswered.  To have continued the story would have required Wells to take a stand on the issue, and I don't think he was confident enough in his own opinions to do so.<br />The novel begins in an almost humorous tone but ends quite seriously and tragically.  Both sides of the scientific argument are given a full say in matters, and the great tragedy is that no one wins in this story.  The most innocent victims are the giants themselves;  they alone seem to recognize society's ills and make aneffort to improve the lives of their fellow men despite the harsh treatment they receive for their efforts.an effort to improve the lives of their fellow men despite the harsh treatment they receive for their efforts.	2002-02-27
1640129:US	53016962	R2T2YKYFASFD0O	0671829343	557461183	The Cosmic Rape	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not your typical alien invasion	Sturgeon seems to delight in telling a number of disjointed stories and trying to bring everything together in the end.  While he is relatively successful doing that here, the actual reading of the novel can be a little frustrating--when you are halfway through a book and are still being presented with brand new characters doing things that seem to relate not at all with the actions of the characters you have already met, you start to wonder just what is going on.  Fortunately, Sturgeon does possess the skills to create memorable characters, so the danger of getting confused about the identities of individuals is fairly low.  Still, though, the constant jumping about only serves to harm the potential of the novel, I feel.  Just when you are really relating to a character and beginning to understand him/her, you are suddenly whisked off to a totally different place.  While the ending is rather good, you as a reader just don't care enough about any of the characters to feel much of anything when you are finished; the whole story quickly flits out of your mind as you immediately reach for a new book off of your shelves.<br />The basic idea is a rather good one.  Earth is invaded by a spore-like creature representing a hive of creatures called the Medusa; the alien culture is spreading throughout the universe assimilating all life forms into its hive mind.  Every organism on every planet to be found in over two galaxies is linked together and can communicate with each other immediately over thousands of light years' distance...it is enough to say that I found it rather refreshing and brilliant.  The novel pretty much stands on the merits of Sturgeon's description of man's reaction to the cosmic challenge (the title's suggestion of cosmic rape is not quite discernible to me)--without such an effective ploy by the author, this would be a mediocre sci-fi novel long forgotten.  This book is worth reading and does supply some satisfaction to the reader, but it is far from being Sturgeon's best work.ing Sturgeon's best work.	2002-02-26
1642512:US	53016962	R3JUFO1M3C4GRJ	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	4	13	22	N	N	A moralistic, liberal view of warfare	It is unusual for an historian to write a work critical of the methods of his own institution; it is even more unusual for a military historian to write a work that is pacific and anti-military.  I see both of these characteristics in Keegan's work.  The author goes at great length to stress his own lack of practical experience with battle and his lack of sympathy with the idea of the Great Battle as the foundation for military history writing.  Drawing from a liberal mode of thought, he seeks not to re-humanize battle or to see the \\"face of battle,\\" as one is led to believe, but instead to dehumanize battle and thus to call forth a pacifist argument against warfare in the modern age.  By arguing that battle has become so mechanistic and deadly as to be fought between \\"things\\" rather than men, he paints the portrait of modern battle as so impersonal as to be abolishing itself from practice.  Warfare is no longer fought between individuals on the battlefield.<br /><br />In essence, Keegan is calling for a moralistic treatment of warfare.  He criticizes much military history writing for depicting battle stereotypically, with emphasis on the outcome.  In countries that have never faced national extinction, war remains something apart from society's heart.  Keegan insists that battle is inherently a \\"moral conflict.\\"  As such, military schools, with their attempts to make war into a science, cannot prepare an individual for actual battle.  Such attempts at rationalization, Keegan objects, in fact only dehumanize the future officer.  Thus, battle accounts tend to describe the course of battle; such \\"rhetoric of history\\" offers little or no analysis of the events and players.<br /><br />Keegan wants to put a human focus on battle.  He argues that the action of fighting has remained a constant over the centuries, which he attempts to show in a treatment of three episodes of battle--Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme.  Although the \\"face of battle\\" has remained unchanged--men still must conquer their fears of death, endure, persevere, etc.--the scope of battle has been magnified--battles last longer, involve more men and machines, and are fought over a wider area.  It is precisely this increase in scope, along with an increase in personal danger to the individual combatant, that has served to change the very nature of warfare.  No longer is battle a contest between two equal parties, who respect and empathize with each other.  The personal, hand-to-hand combat of the past has been replaced by a battle of machines--instruments of destruction.  The enemy is now demonized into something other than human; the enemy becomes \\"them,\\" an impersonal, nonhuman party.  War is no longer noble, Keegan would say; it is only bloody, for men are sacrificed in the thousands to the instruments of destruction.  Due to the impersonalization of warfare, many soldiers must now be coerced if they are to fight at all; forced to take part in such horrors, the soldier loses his humanity and displays a large degree of cruelty to his fellow man.  For these reasons, Keegan concludes by arguing that men can no longer abide the stresses of battle placed on them by a warfare of instruments of destruction--that \\"battle has already abolished itself.\\"  This conclusion seems problematical at best.  While Keegan explores the human experience of battle, he ignores the forces that lead to battle.  By portraying battle as an evil god of destruction borne in and of itself, he fails to acknowledge the inhuman acts of cruelty and aggression that in fact precipitate warfare.till must conquer their fears of death, endure, persevere, etc.--the scope of battle has been magnified--battles last longer, involve more men and machines, and are fought over a wider area.  It is precisely this increase in scope, along with an increase in personal danger to the individual combatant, that has served to change the very nature of warfare.  No longer is battle a contest between two equal parties, who respect and empathize with each other.  The personal, hand-to-hand combat of the past has been replaced by a battle of machines--instruments of destruction.  The enemy is now demonized into something other than human; the enemy becomes \\"them,\\" an impersonal, nonhuman party.  War is no longer noble, Keegan would say; it is only bloody, for men are sacrificed in the thousands to the instruments of destruction.  Due to the impersonalization of warfare, many soldiers must now be coerced if they are to fight at all; forced to take part in such horrors, the soldier loses his humanity and displays a large degree of cruelty to his fellow man.  For these reasons, Keegan concludes by arguing that men can no longer abide the stresses of battle placed on them by a warfare of instruments of destruction--that \\"battle has already abolished itself.\\"  This conclusion seems problematical at best.  While Keegan explores the human experience of battle, he ignores the forces that lead to battle.  By portraying battle as an evil god of destruction borne in and of itself, he fails to acknowledge the inhuman acts of cruelty and aggression that in fact precipitate warfare.	2002-02-24
1642798:US	53016962	R3QSU24SBGK4F9	0029161800	380457758	The Professional Soldier: A Social and Political Portrait	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A rewarding study of the military's role in American society	This book is an effort to bring to bear the tools of social science (Janowitz is a sociologist) in explaining the interrelationship between the military establishment and civil society in America.  In the author's own words, this work is &quot;an attempt to describe the professional life, organizational setting, and leadership of the American military as they have evolved during the first half of this century.&quot;  Of particular interest to the era in which this book was published (1960) is the role of the military in the age of atomic warfare.  Janowitz discusses the power the military establishment has as a &quot;pressure group&quot; over domestic affairs and international relations.  In this world of technological change, Janowitz explores the adaptability that is required of the military establishment in order to keep the system &quot;healthy&quot; and how this affects not only society's view of the military, but the military's view of itself.  Janowitz identifies a rift in professional military thinking, one which he compares to civilian disagreements over conservative and liberal policy.  In modern society, the military has necessarily come into close contact with the &quot;political fabric of contemporary society&quot; and has thus come to play a role in sociopolitical affairs--both directly and indirectly.  Janowitz's focus is on how both civil society and the military establishment will be changed by this modern interdependency.<br />In the vein of the social scientist, Janowitz puts forth five basic hypotheses and seeks to test them.  Briefly encapsulated, these five hypotheses concern: a changing organizational authority, one more oriented to group consensus than to unqualified directives; a narrowing skill differential between military and civilian elites, brought together by the military's increasing dependence on technical specialists; a shift in officer recruitment to a broad socioeconomic base; the importance of adaptiveness and boldness in reaching an elite position in the military; and the development of a &quot;political ethos&quot; around the military profession in the modern age.  He describes a changing role for the military elite; the modern &quot;professional&quot; soldier must somehow maintain an aura of &quot;heroism&quot; while also serving in a position of management of men and machines, topped off by a commitment to public service--both nationally and internationally.<br />Determining the future role of the military is made more difficult by a rift between two schools of thought within the military profession.  The traditional school sees war as &quot;absolute&quot; and inevitable, a means by which to achieve political goals.  This &quot;conservative&quot; mindset has been challenged during the atomic age, as more &quot;liberal&quot; thinkers, fearing the unpredictable effects of modern warfare, promote a &quot;pragmatic&quot; approach to warfare, with an emphasis on adaptation of military means and negotiation as the proper means by which to secure political ends.  Janowitz and other social scientists favor the &quot;pragmatic&quot; approach, arguing that because the military cannot possibly remain in isolation from the polity, both civilians and the military elite must cooperate in the interest of mankind both at home and abroad.<br /><br />Janowitz incorporates into his study qualitative sources involving individual human perceptions as well as quantitative data from questionnaires and statistical profiles.  He is not entirely successful at incorporating a historical dimension into his argumentative framework, and there is a lack of documentation for a number of generalized notions he espouses.  There are, as well, a number of factual errors--e.g., his reference to the historian John Hope Franklin as James Franklin Hope.  This book is designed to make the reader ask new questions of the role of the military in American society, and in this it is successful.  40+ years after its original publication, it is still a valuable read.tion, it is still a valuable read.	2002-02-24
1642823:US	53016962	R2ZQDCWEKBT5P7	1584450789	990174969	Donovan's Brain	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A true horror/sci-fi classic	Some years ago, I saw a list of Stephen King's ten favorite fantasy-horror novels, and Donovan's Brain was on that list.  Naturally, I added the book to my own collection.  It really is a good old-fashioned mid-twentieth century horror story.  The basis of the tale is rather standard fare: a young, obsessive doctor (Patrick Cory)  insists on pushing the limits of human knowledge by attempting to keep a brain alive outside of a host body.  A pretty, neglected wife watches and worries, and an older colleague consistently berates the young doctor for his all-consuming passion and preaches to him the dangers of playing God.  After some limited success sustaining a monkey's brain, the doctor is presented with a golden opportunity to expand his work to the human brain itself.  A plane crashes in the remote area of his private laboratory.  He amputates the crushed legs of one survivor, but he knows the man will never live long enough to reach a hospital.  Quickly, he seizes the opportunity so serendipitously handed to him by fate.  In effect, he steals the brain of the man and coerces his reluctant colleague to help him cover up the act.  It turns out that the victim is a man of great wealth and fame named Donovan..  The brain is placed in a vessel, its arteries supplied with blood by an artificial pump.  Dr. Cory studies the brain, observes its cycles of sleep and wakefulness via electronic readings, and tries to communicate with it.  In time, the brain not only communicates with Cory but comes to take control of his own body, seeing with his eyes, carrying out the dead man's former agenda.  When the older doctor tries to destroy the brain, it compels Dr. Cory to attack him.  The brain sends Cory to Los Angeles to carry out its orders, which includes freeing a murderer from prison, and Cory eventually becomes a prisoner in his own body, capable of watching the brain speak with his voice and move with his body.  The physical brain grows larger and more powerful as Cory's reluctant colleague continues \\"feeding\\" it in the lab.  Predictably, the book climaxes on a battle between the brain and Dr. Cory for permanent control of Cory's body.<br />It sounds like standard B-movie sci-fi fare, but Siodmak's writing never allows the story to become a stereotypical, Saturday matinee-type adventure.  While I did not find this book particularly horrifying, I did find it compelling and completely engrossing.  As an interesting aside, this book would seem to supply the source of a particular tongue-twister used by Stephen King in his novel It.  All in all, this is classic sci-fi/horror at its best and stands shoulders above most of the similar works written in the golden age of science fiction.eluctant colleague continues \\"feeding\\" it in the lab.  Predictably, the book climaxes on a battle between the brain and Dr. Cory for permanent control of Cory's body.<br />It sounds like standard B-movie sci-fi fare, but Siodmak's writing never allows the story to become a stereotypical, Saturday matinee-type adventure.  While I did not find this book particularly horrifying, I did find it compelling and completely engrossing.  As an interesting aside, this book would seem to supply the source of a particular tongue-twister used by Stephen King in his novel It.  All in all, this is classic sci-fi/horror at its best and stands shoulders above most of the similar works written in the golden age of science fiction.	2002-02-24
1642946:US	53016962	R1JYK5H5KDI7CV	0520027752	908861184	Frederick the Great: A Historical Profile	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A brilliant study of Frederick and of Prussia	This work is the study of a society as reflected in the life of Frederick the Great.  The subject of interest is not so much the man per se but rather his interactions with the society he did so much to shape.  Ritter's treatment allows the reader to learn about Frederick but not to know him as a man.  In fact, the work serves largely to sublimate Frederick the man to the Prussian state.  The reader sees Frederick as having succeeded not through divine placement but by luck, reason, and a commitment to the state above all personal and worldly considerations.  But despite all Frederick's realism, as revealed by Ritter, he remains an enigma.  Indeed, as Paret alludes to in his introduction, certain events of European history and aspects of Frederick's life are not explored in Ritter's European-oriented presentation.  Certainly my own lack of understanding of the complicated alliance patterns of early modern Europe detract from my understanding of the book.<br /><br />Frederick's reign seems to have marked a crucial turning point in history-- one toward the development of the modern European nation-state.  Frederick utilized the French designs of emerging nationality to bring to life a state whose purpose was to further the good of all its inhabitants rather than to serve as an instrument of the prince's vainglory.  From the mediaeval throes of dynamism was born the modern state.  To a large degree, Frederick the Great was Prussia; he raised her to a level of power that would not long outlive him.  This is what makes Ritter's biography history.<br />There was a certain ambivalence evidenced in Frederick's conception of warfare.  He only pursued war to further the state, and he learned from war--especially his initial invasion of Silesia.  Always, Prussia in the end seemed to prosper from her ruler's military actions.  Central in Frederick's conception of the state was the need for a vigilant standing army.  To oversee this grand army, Frederick developed a program for proto-modern statehood--in all aspects to be overseen by him personally.  In his state, he sought to utilize the nobility in a paternalistic system.  Patriotism was his goal; his military leaders were not to fight for him but for Prussia.  Frederick was deeply involved in military strategy; as a soldier-king he demanded discipline and controlled aggression among his men.  Significantly, over time he came to see the value of statecraft over military action; after his Silesian invasion, his wars seemed more defensive in nature; often no decisive victor emerged from battle.  He came to realize that warfare was constrained by the state's national resources.  As Ritter describes it, Frederician warfare was defined by maneuverability and limited aggression.  It is the birth of patriotism in the form of Frederician absolutism that lies at the heart of Ritter's study.  Compelled by the rise to power of Naziism, Ritter seeks to show how such German nationalism had originally been born.for proto-modern statehood--in all aspects to be overseen by him personally.  In his state, he sought to utilize the nobility in a paternalistic system.  Patriotism was his goal; his military leaders were not to fight for him but for Prussia.  Frederick was deeply involved in military strategy; as a soldier-king he demanded discipline and controlled aggression among his men.  Significantly, over time he came to see the value of statecraft over military action; after his Silesian invasion, his wars seemed more defensive in nature; often no decisive victor emerged from battle.  He came to realize that warfare was constrained by the state's national resources.  As Ritter describes it, Frederician warfare was defined by maneuverability and limited aggression.  It is the birth of patriotism in the form of Frederician absolutism that lies at the heart of Ritter's study.  Compelled by the rise to power of Naziism, Ritter seeks to show how such German nationalism had originally been born.	2002-02-24
1643467:US	53016962	R2XL7OEVRT09C	0813509319	400801015	Arms and Men: A Study in American Military History	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Warfare's role in shaping American politics and society	Millis' book is largely a commentary on war as a social phenomenon in America.  Its most useful aspect is its blending of military thinking with political theory, demonstrating, as well, war's relationship with society at large.  He clearly shows that military policy is not formulated in a vacuum.  Millis contributes much to the understanding of American history by arguing that matters of war complemented or even superseded politico-economic motives ever since the American Revolution.  The fighting at Concord and Lexington had a significant impact on the creation of America.  Beyond this, the Revolutionary War unleashed democratic forces--in politics as well as warfare--that its leaders did not intend and could not contain.  Millis examines the unpredictability and uncontrollable nature of warfare, arguing that warfare itself has done much to create each &quot;age&quot; of American society.<br /><br />Warfare matured along with society's political and social processes.  The use of military force has long been a &quot;social instrument&quot; in America.  Millis identifies several &quot;revolutions&quot; which shaped the public perception and practice of warfare.  The democratic revolution in both warfare and politics, engendered by the American Revolution, created the concept of universal military obligation.  An industrial revolution provided for technological modernization, along with better communication and transportation of forces.  A managerial revolution allowed for quick mobilization of forces.  The War Between the States is seen to be a time of transition militarily as well as politically.  Plans for the actual use of force went relatively neglected between wars, and the Army existed largely as a &quot;symbol&quot; of power.<br /><br />Throughout American history, the changing nature of warfare has largely determined policy.  America long relied on the idea of voluntarism, mobilizing society only in times of crisis.  World War I showed that voluntarism was insufficient to provide the necessary troops for twentieth-century warfare.  The preparations in America during 1914-15 were to a significant extent mere political and social posturing; the necessary plans for action were largely neglected until America suddenly found herself drawn into the war.  The trend this century of increasingly mechanized, large-scale warfare has sometimes served to push military actions, once engaged, beyond the bounds of political control.  The World Wars and the nuclear age have given birth to &quot;total warfare,&quot; which affects all aspects of society.  For this reason, the nature of warfare has dramatically changed; no longer is it an effective &quot;instrument of policy,&quot; Millis tells us.  Even a defensive struggle in the nuclear age can invoke great forces of devastation.  As a result, the settlement of disputes on the world stage can no longer be solved by going to war; warfare as a social institution no longer offers the solution to such problems.  Millis concedes that he cannot foresee the future of world relations, but he calls on America to look to nonmilitary solutions and to avoid unleashing the uncontrollable &quot;dogs of war.&quot; The central question that remains unanswered in this book concerns the proper military policy to be employed in peace time.nsufficient to provide the necessary troops for twentieth-century warfare.  The preparations in America during 1914-15 were to a significant extent mere political and social posturing; the necessary plans for action were largely neglected until America suddenly found herself drawn into the war.  The trend this century of increasingly mechanized, large-scale warfare has sometimes served to push military actions, once engaged, beyond the bounds of political control.  The World Wars and the nuclear age have given birth to &quot;total warfare,&quot; which affects all aspects of society.  For this reason, the nature of warfare has dramatically changed; no longer is it an effective &quot;instrument of policy,&quot; Millis tells us.  Even a defensive struggle in the nuclear age can invoke great forces of devastation.  As a result, the settlement of disputes on the world stage can no longer be solved by going to war; warfare as a social institution no longer offers the solution to such problems.  Millis concedes that he cannot foresee the future of world relations, but he calls on America to look to nonmilitary solutions and to avoid unleashing the uncontrollable &quot;dogs of war.&quot; The central question that remains unanswered in this book concerns the proper military policy to be employed in peace time.	2002-02-24
1643698:US	53016962	R15ZK5BR0WBIPI	0195028244	192507395	Eisenhower and the Cold War	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A decidedly pro-Eisenhower read	Robert A. Divine's Eisenhower and the Cold War is a decidedly pro-Eisenhower treatment of American foreign policy during the Republican administration of the 1950s.  Divine's Eisenhower is far from the do-nothing Ike whom critics have accused of deferring foreign policy to his subordinates; he is, on the contrary, a rational, calculating, active force exercising full control over decisions involving American security.  Blessed with charm, self-confidence even in the midst of crises, and remarkable self-constraint, Divine's Ike appears as an exceptional, perhaps \\"great\\" President, unique among post-World War II American Presidents for his broad background in international affairs.  Certainly, the author concedes that Eisenhower had certain shortcomings, such as a touchy sensitivity to public criticism and a European-oriented view of the world.  Nevertheless, this book dwells heavily on Ike's foreign policy successes: bringing the Korean war to an end within six months of taking office, keeping America out of the crisis over the Suez Canal, refusing to intervene by arms and men in Indochina and Red China, refusing to force a showdown with the Soviets over Berlin, ending the atmospheric explosions of nuclear weapons.  All the while, Divine's Eisenhower carefully guides foreign policy on a tough yet moderate course, seeking to decrease Cold War tensions while balancing economic and political imperatives alongside national security requirements.<br />Divine breaks this study up into four sections: Eisenhower as President, Massive Retaliation and Asia, the Middle East, and the Russians.  (He admits that this is no full-scale treatment of Ike's foreign policy.)  Divine relies on secondary sources to achieve his objective, namely to demonstrate that \\"Ike was skillful and active in directing American foreign policy\\" and to explain why Eisenhower failed in the end to meet his peace objectives.  The author asserts that Ike desperately wanted to reduce Cold War anxieties and lessen the threat of nuclear war while also keeping defense spending low.  Given these constraints, Ike came to rely more on the threat of nuclear strikes than on the dispersion of American combat forces to all the world's hot spots.  While Ike's critics have charged him with deferring foreign policy decisionmaking to Secretary of State Dulles and other close aides, Divine shows that Eisenhower pulled all the strings, often choosing to restrain the anti-Communist zeal of Dulles and to disregard the advice of military advisors.  The successes he achieved have been neglected or misunderstood, Divine argues, because they were indirect in execution and negative in realization.  In other words, the events that Ike was able to prevent (such as a nuclear war) were more important than any positive, sweeping accomplishments.  This kind of success, Divine contends, becomes more evident when compared to the pitfalls of Kennedy and Johnson in the 1960s.  Basically, Ike's Presidency is seen as a triumph for common sense and rational decision-making, constrained only by Ike's tendency to see all Third World disturbances as a result of Communist agitation.  Nevertheless, had Gary Powers not been shot down and captured by the Soviets on the eve of the Paris summit with Khrushchev, Divine implies that Ike may have secured some of the far-reaching success he had been pursuing throughout his years in office.<br />Divine's pro-Eisenhower rhetoric gets a bit thick at times.  Ike's failures seem due either to the faults of the men around him or to capricious events of chance.  The U-2 affair is a case in point.  Divine seems to say that Eisenhower had little choice other than to act as he did--namely, lying initially about the true nature of the incident; beyond this, we are told that Ike--on several occasions--wanted to stop flying spy missions over Russia in the days preceding the Paris summit.  Because of the U-2 debacle, Divine says Ike was powerless during his final months in office to deal with emerging problems in Cuba, northern Africa, and Southeast Asia--the President was a victim, a \\"prisoner of events.\\"  While the author claims to recognize Eisenhower's weaknesses in conducting foreign policy, he seems always ill-disposed to criticize the President for them.to deal with emerging problems in Cuba, northern Africa, and Southeast Asia--the President was a victim, a \\"prisoner of events.\\"  While the author claims to recognize Eisenhower's weaknesses in conducting foreign policy, he seems always ill-disposed to criticize the President for them.	2002-02-23
1643765:US	53016962	R1JMZWBR0INVT5	0312944470	118882153	Venus Plus X	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Novel ideas but a traditional message	My reaction to this book seems to be a little different than that of others.  Had I not read others' favorable reviews, this book would have frustrated me.  The second running commentary about a \\"modern\\" family and its neighbors did provide a little humor but mainly just served to interrupt the flow of the main story.  I expected some kind of grand ending which would embrace the secondary story and clearly show its meaning and purpose, but the ending did not really accomplish that to my satisfaction.  As far as the presentation of homosexual themes in this story, I found nothing very controversial or nontraditional in its presentation.  Our \\"homo sap.\\" protagonist Charlie Johns encounters homosexuality, is confused by its practice, and actually delivers a biting criticism of that kind of lifestyle; he in fact goes so far as to say that over 99% of the men in his world would want to destroy the Ledom just because they accept and practice homosexuality. In an even larger sense, the utopian aspects of Ledom society seem to be overstated by some reviewers and certainly by the guy who wrote the words on the front and back covers of my rather old copy of the book.  While Charlie Johns is seemingly very impressed by Ledom society at one point, I didn't really understand why he suddenly felt that way.  Moreover, his views quickly change as his guide Philos shows him some of Ledom's secrets.  I can't really go into the heart of this matter without giving something away to the future reader, so let me just say that clearly all of the Ledom are not blissfully happy nor do they even claim to be an ideal society.<br />This book does succeed in delivering a powerful ending.  While I expected a late twist, I did not really expect the ending Sturgeon gave me, and this largely made up for the dissatisfaction I felt regarding the secondary \\"modern life\\" story.  The ending makes this book the classic it is, but the main story is thoroughly enjoyable throughout.  A man is somehow snatched from his own world into that of a strange new world inhabited by a small, largely sexless society which purports to keep all its citizens equal, happy, and free.  In return for a trip back home, Johns agrees to study the society objectively (objectivity being something the Ledom lack); the new society rather quickly reveals a layer of conflict and isolated unhappiness hidden behind a mask of equality and utopia.  Interestingly, Charlie Johns (and the Ledom) learns more about home sap. society than he does Ledom society.  In essence, the book serves not as a critique but more of a study of human life, honing in on two issues: sexuality and religion.  Sturgeon offers a number of interesting ideas on society, but these seem to me to be ideas only and not prescriptions or even suggestions.  To my mind, Sturgeon actually lauds the greatness of human society despite whatever ills it certainly possesses.<br />Venus Plus X is an important, influential, successful example of social science fiction, proving that science fiction is at its best when it deals with the large, abstract issues of mankind rather than focusing exclusively on the technical aspects and believability of a future or alternative science.  You can learn something about yourself by reading this book, and that is a grand accomplishment indeed for any writer in any genre.hed from his own world into that of a strange new world inhabited by a small, largely sexless society which purports to keep all its citizens equal, happy, and free.  In return for a trip back home, Johns agrees to study the society objectively (objectivity being something the Ledom lack); the new society rather quickly reveals a layer of conflict and isolated unhappiness hidden behind a mask of equality and utopia.  Interestingly, Charlie Johns (and the Ledom) learns more about home sap. society than he does Ledom society.  In essence, the book serves not as a critique but more of a study of human life, honing in on two issues: sexuality and religion.  Sturgeon offers a number of interesting ideas on society, but these seem to me to be ideas only and not prescriptions or even suggestions.  To my mind, Sturgeon actually lauds the greatness of human society despite whatever ills it certainly possesses.<br />Venus Plus X is an important, influential, successful example of social science fiction, proving that science fiction is at its best when it deals with the large, abstract issues of mankind rather than focusing exclusively on the technical aspects and believability of a future or alternative science.  You can learn something about yourself by reading this book, and that is a grand accomplishment indeed for any writer in any genre.	2002-02-23
1652937:US	53016962	R1KY0CS3PYDQT7	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Admirable sleuthing effort with questionable conclusions	This was one of the rare books that I could not read close to bedtime.  I'm fairly inured to horror and to the stories of other infamous murderers, but Zodiac really gives me the spooks.  The story of Zodiac's attack on a young couple at Lake Berryessa is one of the most chilling things I have ever read--the stranger approaches, disappears, reappears wearing a black hood, converses with the youngsters, ties them up, then calmly and coolly says \\"I'm going to have to stab you people,\\" and then goes about doing just that.  I would rather meet up with Ted Bundy or Jack the Ripper than I would Zodiac.  I was initially worried about the author's presentation because he included a lot of unimportant details about events occurring before the time of the murders and made comments like the air was \\"exhilarating\\" on a particular day--things he couldn't have known and which don't matter at all anyway.  However, he quickly settled in to a gripping narrative of events, and his own work on the case was presented fairly well and reveals to us the shifting thoughts and theories he had about the case and the perpetrator who was never caught.<br />Graysmith tells a good story, but his opinions on the case can be questioned.  Also, I have to mention the fact that he was the editorial cartoonist of the San Francisco chronicle at the time and not an investigative journalist.  I know this fact should not lead me to discount his conclusions, but it does make me wonder how he came to get as much access to this case as he did.  The enigmatic ciphers the killer sent to the newspapers represent unique additions to an already mystifying series of murders, and this book published much of this material for the first time.  The longest cipher was eventually cracked by the author; although it was verified by experts as correct, I myself did not feel 100% confident about every detail of the solution.  In this and some other matters, the author seemed to make jumps that I could not fully justify; with countless suggestions and theories surrounding this case, it was sometimes difficult to see why Graysmith subscribed to one but not another.  When he lists details about other possible Zodiac victims, he leaves the waters pretty murky.  His remarks about astrological aspects and the moon perhaps determining the dates of Zodiac's actions are interesting but too vague in description for me to fully consider valid.<br />I first read this book several years ago, and I have recently seen allusions to the fact that Graysmith named the killer in this book.  I did not remember him doing that, so I finally decided to re-read the book now.  He does identify a suspect (pseudonymously) whom he believes to most likely be the Zodiac killer, but he has nothing beyond circumstantial evidence with which to \\"convict\\" the man.  In the years since this book was published, facts have arisen which essentially exonerate this individual of the crimes.  Thus, you will not find out who Zodiac was in these pages, but you will find a riveting story about one of the most infamous mass murderers in history.  Graysmith's efforts are sincere and to be respected, but they cannot be accepted without a critical eye toward the evidence that has accumulated in the years since this book's publication.h countless suggestions and theories surrounding this case, it was sometimes difficult to see why Graysmith subscribed to one but not another.  When he lists details about other possible Zodiac victims, he leaves the waters pretty murky.  His remarks about astrological aspects and the moon perhaps determining the dates of Zodiac's actions are interesting but too vague in description for me to fully consider valid.  <br />I first read this book several years ago, and I have recently seen allusions to the fact that Graysmith named the killer in this book.  I did not remember him doing that, so I finally decided to re-read the book now.  He does identify a suspect (pseudonymously) whom he believes to most likely be the Zodiac killer, but he has nothing beyond circumstantial evidence with which to \\"convict\\" the man.  In the years since this book was published, facts have arisen which essentially exonerate this individual of the crimes.  Thus, you will not find out who Zodiac was in these pages, but you will find a riveting story about one of the most infamous mass murderers in history.  Graysmith's efforts are sincere and to be respected, but they cannot be accepted without a critical eye toward the evidence that has accumulated in the years since this book's publication.	2002-02-16
1654911:US	53016962	R3KOFQA4PCC1AE	0345324412	797995088	Have Space Suit, Will Travel	Books	5	47	50	N	N	A showcase of Heinlein's storytelling prowess	Have Space Suit--Will Travel represents Heinlein at his storytelling best.  Free of the esoteric themes that would appear in his later writings, this book is pure science fiction seemingly written solely for the enjoyment of the reader.  Originally published in 1958, the story stands up well even today and will surely be read and enjoyed by untold generations to come.  I am sure that many a young person read this book and yearned to reach the moon in the decade before the Eagle finally landed.<br />This is generally classified as one of Heinlein's juvenile books, but Heinlein's writing is for all ages.  I am sure the book appeals to many young people because its protagonists are themselves young people: Kip is a high school senior, and Peewee is a girl of about twelve.  Kip develops an overpowering urge to go to the moon, and he is lucky enough to win a real space suit in a contest.  Heinlein's description of the many different features of the suit is fascinating.  Resigning himself to selling the suit for college tuition money, Kip goes for one last walk; somewhat playfully calling out on the radio, he is surprised to hear an answer to his call.  He is amazed when a space ship soon lands in his backyard and a decidedly alien creature comes out and collapses.  A second ship lands, an entity gets out and conks Kip on the head, and the next thing Kip knows he is trapped inside a space ship on his way to the moon, suddenly in the company of a little girl.  His captors are \\"Wormfaces,\\" a species of alien that has been in hiding on the moon, looking at the earth with evil intentions.  Peewee introduces Kip to the \\"Mother thing,\\" a Vegan entity (and interstellar policeman) who radiates love and warmth, effectively communicates with the pair in a bird song type of speech, and inspires undying love and devotion.  The book revolves around the youngsters' attempt to rescue the Mother Thing from the Wormfaces and eventually return to earth.  Along the way, they endure captivity on Pluto, stare death in the face a few times, and ultimately find themselves representing Earth in an interstellar courtroom, the very future of earth shakily balanced in their own young hands.<br />There are juvenile elements here, such as Kip's tendency to hold back-and-forth conversations with his space suit (whom he dubs \\"Oscar\\"), but Robert Heinlein does throw in several sections full of mathematical formulas, high-level theorizing, and advanced scientific concepts.  I dare say that these areas of tecnospeak will turn off some young readers and may well stymie a good number of adults.  Aside from the mathematics of the thing, Heinlein can make any kind of scientific notion sound feasible and believable, and that is part of his magic and effectiveness.  Most of all, though, Heinlein presents vividly real characters doing exceedingly interesting, heroic things.  Heinlein's couple of technical forays may be literary speedbumps, but young readers will revel in and be inspired by this book.  Adults who have not yet lost all of their imagination will also relate to the main characters well and delight in a good story line which takes the reader from the earth to the moon to Pluto to another galaxy and back again.ity on Pluto, stare death in the face a few times, and ultimately find themselves representing Earth in an interstellar courtroom, the very future of earth shakily balanced in their own young hands.<br />There are juvenile elements here, such as Kip's tendency to hold back-and-forth conversations with his space suit (whom he dubs \\"Oscar\\"), but Robert Heinlein does throw in several sections full of mathematical formulas, high-level theorizing, and advanced scientific concepts.  I dare say that these areas of tecnospeak will turn off some young readers and may well stymie a good number of adults.  Aside from the mathematics of the thing, Heinlein can make any kind of scientific notion sound feasible and believable, and that is part of his magic and effectiveness.  Most of all, though, Heinlein presents vividly real characters doing exceedingly interesting, heroic things.  Heinlein's couple of technical forays may be literary speedbumps, but young readers will revel in and be inspired by this book.  Adults who have not yet lost all of their imagination will also relate to the main characters well and delight in a good story line which takes the reader from the earth to the moon to Pluto to another galaxy and back again.	2002-02-14
1661623:US	53016962	RDLCKE0Z5GRBJ	0786868015	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Only worth reading as a supplement to the miniseries	I found this book to be an uncomfortable, rather disappointing read.  Aside from its relationship with the Rose Red miniseries, I do not feel it stands very well on its own.  I must say that the first fifty pages tainted the remainder of the story for me.  I am certainly no expert on women, but I cannot fathom any woman, even a fictitious one, and especially not one writing about events in the early 1900s, writing the kinds of things found in this journal.  This is not to say I am not well aware of the fact that many women have been victimized sexually by their husbands, or that many women have been greatly afflicted by their own confusing passions in this regard, but some of the early journal entries just seemed way over the top (especially the part about Ellen saving the bedsheets from her honeymoon).  This journal struck me almost immediately as a man's attempt to write a woman's personal story.<br />This book is important in that it helps explain some things presented in the Red Rose miniseries, in particular John Rimbauer's death in the tower and a more complete sequence of events surrounding the disappearance of Ellen's daughter April.  I also found out a whole lot more about Ellen's relationship with her handmaiden Sukeena than I really wanted to know.  In the miniseries, I never got a real grasp of Sukeena and her place in the whole story; this book does supply a lot of new information in this regard and details her pivotal role in events.  I was a little surprised that more information about the house itself was not shared in these pages.  While Ellen mentions hearing the house laugh and speak to her and the sound of continuing construction through the walls, she never offers a good description of the changes supposedly taking place in her home.  She mentions having a sense that a hallway changed completely at one point, but she does not describe anything very extraordinary happening before her eyes--beyond bearing witness to the solarium sprouting jungles of plants and flowers in a matter of minutes.  One cannot truly envision Rose Red based on Ellen's journal entries themselves.<br />There were some effective passages in the journal, such as the part concerning Ellen's encounters with the ghost of a servant, but even these were in no way spinetingling.  In terms of characterization, the true natures of the main characters are revealed rather thoroughly.  Watching the miniseries, I felt sympathy for Ellen as the victim of a cold, cheating husband.  Having read this book, almost all of the sympathy I felt for her is gone.  In her way, Ellen was just as much a scoundrel as her husband.  Her huge mood shifts between hope for her marriage and hatred for her philandering husband wore on my nerves, as did her vacillations between one decision or another.  Oddly, enough, the character I now feel the most respect for is the house itself.  Rose Red should have shuddered upon witnessing some of the debauchery that took place inside its walls, and I can understand why it would want to put a stop to the evils emanating from the house's occupants.<br />All in all, fans of the miniseries should consider reading this book because it elaborates upon a lot of details and incidents omitted from the miniseries in regard to the early history of Rose Red.  I personally believe it would have been a mistake to read Ellen's journal before watching the miniseries.  On a few occasions, even the author seems to slip into a third-person voice, subtly referring to events that have yet to take place. in Ellen's timeframe.  Anyone going into this book with no knowledge whatsoever about Rose Red is almost doomed to find little substance or satisfaction in these pages.s of plants and flowers in a matter of minutes.  One cannot truly envision Rose Red based on Ellen's journal entries themselves.  <br />There were some effective passages in the journal, such as the part concerning Ellen's encounters with the ghost of a servant, but even these were in no way spinetingling.  In terms of characterization, the true natures of the main characters are revealed rather thoroughly.  Watching the miniseries, I felt sympathy for Ellen as the victim of a cold, cheating husband.  Having read this book, almost all of the sympathy I felt for her is gone.  In her way, Ellen was just as much a scoundrel as her husband.  Her huge mood shifts between hope for her marriage and hatred for her philandering husband wore on my nerves, as did her vacillations between one decision or another.  Oddly, enough, the character I now feel the most respect for is the house itself.  Rose Red should have shuddered upon witnessing some of the debauchery that took place inside its walls, and I can understand why it would want to put a stop to the evils emanating from the house's occupants.  <br />All in all, fans of the miniseries should consider reading this book because it elaborates upon a lot of details and incidents omitted from the miniseries in regard to the early history of Rose Red.  I personally believe it would have been a mistake to read Ellen's journal before watching the miniseries.  On a few occasions, even the author seems to slip into a third-person voice, subtly referring to events that have yet to take place. in Ellen's timeframe.  Anyone going into this book with no knowledge whatsoever about Rose Red is almost doomed to find little substance or satisfaction in these pages.	2002-02-08
1666234:US	53016962	RFUS4EJ6JAC74	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The epitome of great science fiction	After reading this remarkable book, I have to ask myself why I have never heard of Joe Haldeman before.  This book won the Hugo and Nebula awards--and deservedly so--but I was not at all familiar with this author up to now.  I have to say that this book is an incredible read.  It's not exceedingly long, but it is packed full of all kinds of ideas and strikes me as quite visionary for the time in which it was written, which was the early 1970s.  I am not as well-read in the sci-fi genre as I would like to be, but I must say that the future earth Haldeman describes is one quite unlike any I have read about or thought about myself.  The very premise strikes me as singular if not unique, and the end result is a thoroughly enjoyable novel that far exceeds the fare of most science fiction offerings.<br />In the late twentieth century, Earth develops the ability to travel to distant parts of the galaxy through portals called collapsars; they soon come into contact with an alien race called the Taurans, and war breaks out between the two worlds.  The protagonist, William Mandella, finds himself drafted into the intergalactic service under the provisions of the newly established Elite Conscription Act of 1996.  Rather than retain the future scientists and leaders at home, this act works to form an intergalactic army of the world's best and brightest young men and women.  The new recruits endure a grueling and sometimes fatal training regimen before shipping out to the planets of disputed galactic areas.  The trip itself is dangerous, and the troops must secure themselves in protective chambers while they make the long journey to their destinations.  Traveling at speeds close to that of light, a journey of several months equates to centuries back home on earth.  The troops themselves are made up of both men and women, and a high degree of \\"confraternizing\\" goes on between the two sexes.  Mandella bonds with one woman in particular, and a part of the story revolves around their attempts to stay together.  Mandella is injured in combat, and he returns to an earth that has changed greatly: it is not safe to go anywhere without a bodyguard, homosexuality has become widespread in the culture of nine billion earthbound souls, jobs are incredibly complicated to secure, and Mandella cannot fit in.  He reenlists in the service.  After another injury and another disillusioning trip home, he goes back into the service as an instructor; almost immediately, though, he is given command of a new ship and sent to a star system 150,000 light years away.  By this time, with hundreds more years having passed on earth, heterosexuality has essentially disappeared, and his young recruits are basically genetically engineered test-tube babies.  The story of his final military action makes for a thrilling end of the story.<br />In the end, the author seems to express his own opinions about warfare, which it is certainly his prerogative to do, but the importance of the novel seems to lie mainly in the personality of Mandella and the author's portrayal of a drastically changed future earth society.  This work was truly visionary.  Hard science fiction elements include time travel (relative, of course) through collapsars (essentially black holes), a means by which humans can survive speeds close to the universal speed limit, and the military hardware of the future.  The social context of the evolving story is the most striking part of the book to me, though.  Malthusian population crises lead mankind to embrace (and at one point legislate) homosexuality.  Mandella's heterosexuality is looked down upon and actually affects the morale of the troops under his command.  The author also deals to some degree with cloning, which is certainly a timely topic, and delves into the political, economic, and social structures of his future earth.  Mandella himself offers a case study in humanity.  A reluctant warrior, he does what he has to do despite some ambivalence about thewar itself, and he holds true to his personal beliefs and values in a world (several, actually) turned on its head.  There is also a love story of sorts in the book, but  it actually serves to heighten the importance of the protagonist's  internal struggles with himself and with a world that becomes completely foreign to him.  This is science fiction of the highest caliber and stands alongside the master works of authors more widely-recognized than Haldeman.war itself, and he holds true to his personal beliefs and values in a world (several, actually) turned on its head.  There is also a love story of sorts in the book, but  it actually serves to heighten the importance of the protagonist's  internal struggles with himself and with a world that becomes completely foreign to him.  This is science fiction of the highest caliber and stands alongside the master works of authors more widely-recognized than Haldeman.	2002-02-05
1670653:US	53016962	R1VBSWV65AMEB	0884047598	36896534	Fear	Books	4	29	33	N	N	An intellectual exercise in suspense	At the risk of seeming dim-witted, I have to admit that I initially didn't really &quot;get&quot; this book.  This is not to say that Fear isn't a good book.  I enjoyed reading it, and the strange journey of Lowry was presented strikingly and richly, giving me a great sense of the growing mania afflicting the protagonist, inspiring my sympathy and inculcating my own dislike for Lowry's friend Tommy Williams.  Lowry's surreal journey down a disappearing staircase outside his door was a little overblown for my tastes, but the more tangible effects of Lowry's situation, from the sublime to the overt, struck me as very well done.  I wanted to know what happened to Lowry's missing four hours almost as much as he did.  My problem was that I just could not reconcile the ending with the story as I had read it.  I understood the ending, although perhaps not at every level the author intended, but I just didn't find it fully acceptable.  It was like a splash of cold water hitting your face, awakening you to the realization that everything you just experienced was not quite real.  Perhaps it is this sudden splash of &quot;truth&quot; that makes this book so wonderful to many readers (including the likes of Stephen King, Ray Bradbury, and Isaac Asimov), but I initially found it disappointing.<br />A day later, I have found my thoughts returning to this little tale, and a new sense of appreciation has begun to take root in my mind.  Bits and pieces, particularly the oft-repeated frantic calls of Lowry's wife interspersed throughout the action, have begun to coalesce and make more sense to me.  I must say that the ending is no longer so unsatisfying as it was at first.  My visceral reactions have given way to more philosophical musings, so I must credit the author with producing a work that stays with you and makes you think.  Having said that, though, I still find that, whichever way I look at the novel, I have questions that are not answered and can point to incidents that still don't make perfect sense to me.  As such, I cannot go so far as to declare this book a classic.<br />This book can quite easily be read in the course of a single sitting; in fact, it probably should be read from cover to cover nonstop in order to achieve the fullest effect possible on the senses and thoughts of the reader.  The most compelling aspect of the tale is the way it draws the reader into Lowry's mind and taps the reader's emotions; to fully experience the journey, one really should read the book without pause.  As for the scare factor, I did not find this book scary or unnerving at all, nor can I really understand why some readers obviously do find it frightening.  The tale is gripping, it does draw the reader into the story, and the ending, while not necessarily surprising, is refreshing in its nonconformity with most readers' expectations, so I would certainly recommend this book to anyone interested in the suspense and horror genres.  I would also urge future reviewers to wait a day before writing a review complaining about the ending; many of my impressions of the book changed dramatically after a day's thought.ill don't make perfect sense to me.  As such, I cannot go so far as to declare this book a classic.<br />This book can quite easily be read in the course of a single sitting; in fact, it probably should be read from cover to cover nonstop in order to achieve the fullest effect possible on the senses and thoughts of the reader.  The most compelling aspect of the tale is the way it draws the reader into Lowry's mind and taps the reader's emotions; to fully experience the journey, one really should read the book without pause.  As for the scare factor, I did not find this book scary or unnerving at all, nor can I really understand why some readers obviously do find it frightening.  The tale is gripping, it does draw the reader into the story, and the ending, while not necessarily surprising, is refreshing in its nonconformity with most readers' expectations, so I would certainly recommend this book to anyone interested in the suspense and horror genres.  I would also urge future reviewers to wait a day before writing a review complaining about the ending; many of my impressions of the book changed dramatically after a day's thought.	2002-02-01
1671363:US	53016962	RXCY3VI8VKNXH	0192828282	55373605	The First Men in the Moon (The World's Classics)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	H.G. Wells at his best	The title seems a little strange, but the Moon as imagined by Wells is inhabited by creatures living underground--thus, the title.  The plot is typical of the author--a seemingly normal man happens to meet a man with strange scientific ideas, and he quickly finds himself an active participant in the grand designs of his new acquaintance.  Mr. Bedford, our narrator, escapes to as quiet and isolated a space as he can find in order to write a play.  His hideaway is visited every night by a strange little man with a penchant for humming.  Accosting the man for his nightly interruptions, he learns that the man, Dr. Cavor, is a scientist working to find a means by which to nullify gravity.  Seeing the possibility of great profit from such a discovery, the narrator quickly enlists as a scientific assistant.  The serendipitous discovery of Cavorite results in the scientist's home being destroyed and the surrounding countryside buffeted and damaged by powerful winds.  With the discovery now made, Cavor embarks on a monumental quest to reach the moon by creating a huge sphere--a coating of Cavorite provides the means of locomotion, and a complex system of blinds serves as the means for controlling the thing.  With the blinds closed, all gravitational forces are blocked from the sphere; with one or more blinds open, the sphere is once again subject to the gravitational pull of the nearest large object.  In this fashion, the intrepid explorers make their way to the moon.<br />The moon they discover is not barren; in daylight, a bevy of plants emerge from the ground only to wither and die as the lunar night returns.  When the explorers lose their way, they are captured and taken underground.  While Cavor wants to communicate with the Selenites, as he immediately dubs the lunar inhabitants, Bedford is more concerned with escape and eventually effects just that, having found the moon dwellers easy prey to his strong, earthgrown muscles.  The two men search for the sphere, but Bedford is forced to escape the moon alone after learning that Cavor has been captured and presumably killed.  Bedford returns to earth, tells his story to some incredulous beach dwellers, and then finds the sphere hijacked by a young boy (who flies off and is never heard from again).  Thus, he has no way of returning to the moon, nor does he have the knowledge required to make more Cavorite.  A short time later, Bedford is amazed to learn that Cavor is not dead and is in fact sending radio signals from the moon to the earth.  The rest of the novel relates the story of Cavor's stay on the moon, culminating in a description of his interview with the Grand Lunar.  In lunar society, each individual is assigned a certain job and is trained and even surgically altered to do that job and nothing else.  Cavor's description of earthly society is a revelation to the lunar inhabitants; through his words, Wells seems to point out some of the follies of mankind, particularly war.  Thus, the book ends on sort of a philosophical note, and one has to imagine that Cavor's speech reflects some of Wells' own views about humankind.<br />All in all, the book is interesting, well-paced, and enjoyable.  The originality of Wells' idea is striking--rather than propel man to the moon by huge cannon or the like, he employs antigravity as a free, highly effective means to, in essence, repel the sphere from the earth.  Of course, Wells' moon is a far cry from the moon as we now know it, but it does seem to fit well into the framework of thinking at the time, at least insomuch as Wells describes those contemporary scientific ideas.  Though not the most recognized of his books, The First Men in the Moon may be the most original and visionary science fiction novel penned by this pioneering author.ord is forced to escape the moon alone after learning that Cavor has been captured and presumably killed.  Bedford returns to earth, tells his story to some incredulous beach dwellers, and then finds the sphere hijacked by a young boy (who flies off and is never heard from again).  Thus, he has no way of returning to the moon, nor does he have the knowledge required to make more Cavorite.  A short time later, Bedford is amazed to learn that Cavor is not dead and is in fact sending radio signals from the moon to the earth.  The rest of the novel relates the story of Cavor's stay on the moon, culminating in a description of his interview with the Grand Lunar.  In lunar society, each individual is assigned a certain job and is trained and even surgically altered to do that job and nothing else.   Cavor's description of earthly society is a revelation to the lunar inhabitants; through his words, Wells seems to point out some of the follies of mankind, particularly war.  Thus, the book ends on sort of a philosophical note, and one has to imagine that Cavor's speech reflects some of Wells' own views about humankind.  <br />All in all, the book is interesting, well-paced, and enjoyable.  The originality of Wells' idea is striking--rather than propel man to the moon by huge cannon or the like, he employs antigravity as a free, highly effective means to, in essence, repel the sphere from the earth.  Of course, Wells' moon is a far cry from the moon as we now know it, but it does seem to fit well into the framework of thinking at the time, at least insomuch as Wells describes those contemporary scientific ideas.  Though not the most recognized of his books, The First Men in the Moon may be the most original and visionary science fiction novel penned by this pioneering author.	2002-02-01
1676711:US	53016962	R2IOT6WP0TKA3Y	038039362X	907637221	The 12th Planet (The Earth Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	43	49	N	N	A provocative new theory of man's history	This is the first book in Sitchin's monumental Earth Chronicles series.  It is important to remember that fact because there is necessarily a lot of introductory material to be presented here in order to lay the foundation for what is to come.  In other words, most of the really interesting stuff comes later in the series--Ancient Egypt, MesoAmerica, etc.  Parts of this first book are somewhat dry and hard to get through.  As one gets into the latter half, though, some pretty amazing arguments are made.  If you read this book and no other, you may well have a hard time even sanctioning the kinds of ideas Sitchen presents, let alone believing them.  When you read the rest of the series, though, the arguments are threshed out much more thoroughly and should at least lend an idea of possiblity to objective readers.<br />The idea that &quot;ancient astronauts&quot; (a term I dislike) had a hand in Man's creation and evolution is not new.  Sitchin goes far beyond the normal arguments, however.  He argues that there is an undiscovered planet in our own solar system upon which life developed and evolved millions of years before life on earth, a planet that seeded earth with its earliest life forms millions of years ago when this undiscovered planet entered our solar system and essentially crashed into a large planet between Mars and Jupiter--the planet in question was broken up into two parts, one eventually forming Earth and the other the asteroid belt.  The 12th planet (counting the sun and moon as planets) he calls Nibiru; it is a planet with an eccentric orbit carrying it well past the other nine planets thousands of years at a time.  Here life developed and advanced at a very early period.  Needing resources, particularly gold, the planet sent forth emissaries to earth.  In order to free themselves of the hard labor of mining, these aliens, the Nefilim, created Man by combining their genes with those of the ape men then on earth, a procedure made possible by the fact that the two races were in fact genetic cousins.  Thus, the Nefilim became early man's gods, and their stories were told in the artifacts of the ancient Sumerians and of the kingdoms that came after them.<br />Sitchin makes a determined effort to tie Christianity and the Bible to the tale he unfolds.  He effectively, and with good evidence, shows that the early stories in the Bible are based largely on older manuscripts from Sumeria.  He explains many of the mysterious passages in the Bible by tying the stories to more complete Sumerian tales--the Elohim, the plural Deity mentioned in the Creation story, the great flood, the Tower of Babel, and others.  In this endeavor, he is very successful.  While one may not be convinced of his story of life on Earth, one cannot doubt the fact that the early books of the Bible are basically a condensed version of former manuscripts.  He makes a convincing argument for his theories, but one will not be and should not be convinced based on this one book.  Much supporting evidence is to be found in the later books in the series, where a far richer version of man's history is presented by the author.  As unbelievable as many of his ideas sound, Sitchin actually does an effective job of answering many of the big questions that scientists and theologians have been unable to answer about life on earth, the most important of which is an explanation of why home sapiens developed so suddenly and miraculously 300,000 years ago.  Right or wrong, his ideas answer a lot of questions and deserve serious study.  Sitchin's knowledge of ancient civilizations is immense, and his judgments cannot be dismissed without serious attention paid to them.t that the two races were in fact genetic cousins.  Thus, the Nefilim became early man's gods, and their stories were told in the artifacts of the ancient Sumerians and of the kingdoms that came after them. <br />Sitchin makes a determined effort to tie Christianity and the Bible to the tale he unfolds.  He effectively, and with good evidence, shows that the early stories in the Bible are based largely on older manuscripts from Sumeria.  He explains many of the mysterious passages in the Bible by tying the stories to more complete Sumerian tales--the Elohim, the plural Deity mentioned in the Creation story, the great flood, the Tower of Babel, and others.  In this endeavor, he is very successful.  While one may not be convinced of his story of life on Earth, one cannot doubt the fact that the early books of the Bible are basically a condensed version of former manuscripts.  He makes a convincing argument for his theories, but one will not be and should not be convinced based on this one book.  Much supporting evidence is to be found in the later books in the series, where a far richer version of man's history is presented by the author.  As unbelievable as many of his ideas sound, Sitchin actually does an effective job of answering many of the big questions that scientists and theologians have been unable to answer about life on earth, the most important of which is an explanation of why home sapiens developed so suddenly and miraculously 300,000 years ago.  Right or wrong, his ideas answer a lot of questions and deserve serious study.  Sitchin's knowledge of ancient civilizations is immense, and his judgments cannot be dismissed without serious attention paid to them.	2002-01-28
1682305:US	53016962	R14AFICZFYGFXG	0316769177	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A powerful, gripping, honest novel	Somehow I, a quite literate person, managed to live 31 years without reading this book.  I never really took the time to see what it was about; I just pictured some guy out in a rye field, and the notion did not strike me as interesting.  I hope no one else has such an idea because this book is inherently honest, gripping, and interesting.  This is really a story of young angst , and it should really appeal to young people.  I actually see a lot of Holden Caulfield in myself, which is not necessarily a good thing.  However, I think there is some of Holden in almost everyone because Holden thinks and says the things that many people think (but perhaps will not admit).  This guy hates everything and everybody at some point.  One minute, he does something he doesn't want to do because he is afraid of looking foolish.  The next minute, he rushes headlong into a conversation full of tall tales and impassioned statements and requests he may or may not even mean.  Ironically, such maniacal conversations often reveal the deepest truths about himself.  Through it all, he questions why he does certain things, and repeatedly asserts that he is crazy.<br />What struck me most is the way seemingly small and arbitrary things depressed him.  The same thing happens to me, and such little things can actually be more depressing than major traumas.  These are feelings I have never been able to really explain, nor have I attempted to do so, yet Holden seems to express my own strange feelings clearly and eloquently.  He is just a confused young man, scarred by the death of his younger brother.  As he is away at school(s) so often, he is left quite lonely, yet he does not really know how to relate to other people.  The guy is to some degree a typical teenager, it seems to me, searching for a direction in life.  In his own mind, bothersome things happen to him all the time, and he is constantly disgusted by the action of phonies all around him.  Like him or not, Holden is no phony.<br />In a way, I'm not sure why this book is such a critical success.  It doesn't read like a traditional classic of literature, especially with the abundant cursing.  I consider this to be a painfully real and honest story, reflecting a very important viewpoint on life and society.  It pulls no punches, and it offers no apologies.  As a result, Holden Caulfield is one of the most \\"real\\" fictional characters in all of literature.  While some readers may not like him, almost everyone can understand him, sympathize with him, and even learn from him.  This book is one to be read and read again.  I wish the story had gone on, that some of my questions had been answered.  Part of the point, though, seems to be that there really are no answers to be found.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone.  It should especially appeal to young people. It's relatively short, and it is realistic and gripping from start to finish.  While he is not a hero, Holden will become a soul mate of sorts to folks who are lonely and confused about their places in life.  If for no other reason, read it because it is a perpetual target of the banned books crowd.  There is a lot of cursing in these pages, but it is nothing extreme or unfamiliar to anyone out there who doesn't live in a convent.  I believe the cursing is actually necessary in terms of truly bringing Holden to life.  Concentrate on the story, not the words.  I have an old copy of this book, and on the cover are these words: \\"This unusual book may shock you, will make you laugh, and may break your heart--but you will never forget it.\\"  That pretty much says it all.r />In a way, I'm not sure why this book is such a critical success.  It doesn't read like a traditional classic of literature, especially with the abundant cursing.  I consider this to be a painfully real and honest story, reflecting a very important viewpoint on life and society.  It pulls no punches, and it offers no apologies.  As a result, Holden Caulfield is one of the most \\"real\\" fictional characters in all of literature.  While some readers may not like him, almost everyone can understand him, sympathize with him, and even learn from him.  This book is one to be read and read again.  I wish the story had gone on, that some of my questions had been answered.  Part of the point, though, seems to be that there really are no answers to be found.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone.  It should especially appeal to young people. It's relatively short, and it is realistic and gripping from start to finish.  While he is not a hero, Holden will become a soul mate of sorts to folks who are lonely and confused about their places in life.  If for no other reason, read it because it is a perpetual target of the banned books crowd.  There is a lot of cursing in these pages, but it is nothing extreme or unfamiliar to anyone out there who doesn't live in a convent.  I believe the cursing is actually necessary in terms of truly bringing Holden to life.  Concentrate on the story, not the words.  I have an old copy of this book, and on the cover are these words: \\"This unusual book may shock you, will make you laugh, and may break your heart--but you will never forget it.\\"  That pretty much says it all.	2002-01-23
1689069:US	53016962	R388CZ0HFU7O7H	0440194784	121956424	Welcome to the Monkey House	Books	5	55	62	N	N	An amazing collection of short stories	Having never read Vonnegut before, I wasn't sure what to expect from this book.  The title led me to expect some degree of science fiction.  What I found was a collection of rich, wonderfully written stories about a wide assortment of subjects.  Vonnegut is a great writer, pure and simple.  Many of the stories dealt with the future and the state of society, and Vonnegut struck me as having a somewhat cynical yet witty view of the subject.  I found the themes of his stories to be somewhat akin to my own fears of life as we will some day know it, in a world where the government attempts to create utopia on earth.  Two of the more memorable stories found in these pages are &quot;Harrison Bergeron&quot; and &quot;Welcome to the Monkey House.&quot;  In the first story, we find the type of society that I fear the most, a socialist republic where all people are required to be equal; those who possess intelligence and pose the danger of actually thinking are controlled by implants which forcefully disallow any thought from entering their minds.  In the latter, we find a Malthusian world of overpopulation where everyone takes pills to numb the lower halves of their bodies and people are encouraged to come to Federal Ethical Suicide Parlors and voluntarily remove themselves from the crowded world.  Other stories deal with massive overpopulation troubles.<br />On the other hand, we find more simplistic stories in which Vonnegut conveys individuals in a deep, touching light, striking great chords of sympathy in this reader's mind.  A woman who is obsessed with redecorating the houses of her neighbors yet cannot afford to buy decent furniture for her own house; a young woman who comes to a strange town, captivates everyone with her beauty, is criticized and publicly humiliated by a young man for being the kind of girl he could never win the heart of, and is richly shown to be an innocent, lonely soul; a teen who acts horribly because he has never had a real family but is saved from a life of crime by a teacher who makes the grand effort to save the boy--these are some of the many subjects dealt with by the author.  There is even a heartfelt story about a young Russian and young American who are killed in space but who inspire understanding and d&eacute;tente between the two superpowers by bringing home the point that they were both young men with families who loved them and who had no desire for anything but peace--written during the height of the Cold War, that story really stood out to me.<br />All of the stories are not eminently satisfying to me, but the lion's share of them are; a couple of stories seemed to have been written for no other reason but to make the author some money, which is okay (especially since Vonnegut introduces the stories by saying he wrote them in order to finance his novel-writing endeavors).  I may have been less than satisfied by a couple of stories, but even the worst of the lot was written wonderfully and obviously with much care, and I daresay that few writers could do better on their best day than Vonnegut does on his worst.  Sometimes, as one ages, one fears that he will eventually have read all of the best books in the world, but then one discovers an author such as Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., and it is one of the best and most exciting things that can happen to that person.from a life of crime by a teacher who makes the grand effort to save the boy--these are some of the many subjects dealt with by the author.  There is even a heartfelt story about a young Russian and young American who are killed in space but who inspire understanding and dtente between the two superpowers by bringing home the point that they were both young men with families who loved them and who had no desire for anything but peace--written during the height of the Cold War, that story really stood out to me.  <br />All of the stories are not eminently satisfying to me, but the lion's share of them are; a couple of stories seemed to have been written for no other reason but to make the author some money, which is okay (especially since Vonnegut introduces the stories by saying he wrote them in order to finance his novel-writing endeavors).  I may have been less than satisfied by a couple of stories, but even the worst of the lot was written wonderfully and obviously with much care, and I daresay that few writers could do better on their best day than Vonnegut does on his worst.  Sometimes, as one ages, one fears that he will eventually have read all of the best books in the world, but then one discovers an author such as Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., and it is one of the best and most exciting things that can happen to that person.	2002-01-18
1694047:US	53016962	RNR86TO70TI9S	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	17	23	N	N	A Wakeup Call for Western Civilization	As a former supporter of Pat Buchanan, I was mortified when he abandoned the GOP.  With this incredibly important new book, Buchanan has redeemed himself in my eyes.  Not only does Buchanan say the things that need to be said, he imparts information that I have until now been totally unaware of.  The scenario Buchanan presents for the future should be a clarion call to the silent majority representing Western civilization to shake off their cowardice and stand up to defend their history and culture before it is irretrievably lost.  While many groups and individuals will decry this book (most likely without even reading it), shout down the ideas presented, and typically castigate the author as a fascist, racist, homophobe, xenophobe, etc., the one thing they cannot do is disprove the facts that form the foundation of Buchanan's argument.  To my horror, and to the delight of the multiculturalists, the West is indeed clearly dying as birth rates continue to decline; surrounded in a sea of poisons (primarily cultural revolutionaries and militant Islamicists), we in the West up to now have refused to recognize the very existence of the danger.<br />Buchanan does an excellent job of explaining how the current predicament came about.  Where communists failed, the multiculturalists, socialists, and liberals have succeeded in weakening our culture internally rather than attacking us externally.  The evidence of the infiltration is all around us: Americans are being robbed of our cultural heroes and icons, the New History being taught in our schools is inculcating an Anti-American spirit in our youth, religion has been banned from our schools, Americans are rejecting the family and community in the pursuit of material gain, a national consciousness has given way to racial and cultural disagreements essentially fracturing the very fabric of society, the proliferation of abortion has killed millions of future Westerners while at the same time accomplishing a numbing of society by nullifying the sanctity of life itself, and defeatism has seized the men and women who should be in the front line of the defense of Western culture.  Most importantly, America has been largely de-Christianized.  Buchanan argues that Christianity is the foundation on which Western civilization was built; with that foundation crumbling, not even a commitment to democracy can save America.  Massive immigration by peoples not interested in &quot;becoming Americans&quot; are only hastening the death of the West.  His portrayal of the Republican party as blind to the dangers and cowardly to act do much to explain his exit from the party.<br />Buchanan argues that all hope is not yet gone, although he never seems overly positive at our chances for success.  Above all, morality and the importance of family must be restored--without a significant increase in birth rates, no political solutions can change our fate.  Political actions are needed, however, chief among them the reining in of a Supreme Court that is now violating the Constitution by legislating from the bench.  Communities and states must regain the power to oversee how they and their children should live, the murder of viable fetuses simply must be stopped, our children as well as immigrants must be taught the true history of America because the truth of our accomplishments (including the abolition of slavery) is sure to inspire the patriotism that liberals have been working long and hard to rob our children of.  Christians must become the zealous evangelicals of old, and the Republican party must shed its robes of cowardice and fight for the values that the silent majority still hold fast to, albeit it more silently than ever before.<br />I have to say that I don't necessarily agree with everything Buchanan calls for, but this book has made me question some of my own opinions, and I find that very valuable.  This book can challenge any reader who actually reads it. Its subject is made even more important bythe new climate we in America find ourselves living in after 9-11-01.  The terrorist attacks have awakened us to the threat to America from outside our borders; now we must recognize the even greater threat from within our own society.  As a new spirit of patriotism has spread across our nation, we have a golden opportunity to save Western civilization.  Whether you agree with Mr. Buchanan or not, this book needs to be read, studied, and debated by all Americans. I am somewhat obsessed about keeping my books in pristine condition, but my copy of this book is filled with underlined passages, asterisks, and notes.by the new climate we in America find ourselves living in after 9-11-01.  The terrorist attacks have awakened us to the threat to America from outside our borders; now we must recognize the even greater threat from within our own society.  As a new spirit of patriotism has spread across our nation, we have a golden opportunity to save Western civilization.  Whether you agree with Mr. Buchanan or not, this book needs to be read, studied, and debated by all Americans. I am somewhat obsessed about keeping my books in pristine condition, but my copy of this book is filled with underlined passages, asterisks, and notes.	2002-01-14
1705586:US	53016962	R2OG7WA3RKYE3N	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	War of the Worlds falls flat	It pains me to do it, but I can only give this novel three stars.  It is ironic that a radio presentation of this tale led to widespread panic among unwary listeners; a reading of the novel itself is a slow, languid journey met with little excitement at all.  It is almost a chore to get through the middle sections of the book.  Wells is a fantastic writer, but here he seems to wallow in his own descriptive prowess.  The story starts off promisingly with astronomers spotting strange emissions from Mars on ten successive nights.  Soon, &quot;meteors&quot; radiating a green trail through the skies begin to land in the English countryside.  The narrator, Ogilvy, is one of the first men to discover the impact site of the first &quot;meteor.&quot;  As hundreds of curious people gravitate around the pit, they discover a rounded cylinder, the mysterious contents of which begin making strange sounds.  In time, a portion of the cylinder begins slowly unscrewing itself, and what emerges from the cylinder is an inhuman mass of tissue sporting a great number of tentacles.  As the people pull back in terror, the creature sets to work building a device that unleashes death and destruction on all those nearby.  No man can withstand the utter destruction unleashed by the creature's heat ray.  In the days that follow, more and more cylinders land in the area.  Soon, the Martians emerge from their pits, riding huge mechanical contraptions towering over the trees.  They unleash Black Death, a poisonous gas, throughout the countryside, and they burn villages remorselessly with their devastating heat rays.  Now the story comes down to a description of the narrator's flight through the countryside and of the panic that spreads from town to town as unbelieving men and women come to realize that the Martians are here and cannot be stopped.  Page after page is devoted to descriptions of man's flight, and the author names towns and roads repetitiously.  Not content with his own overdescription, the narrator shifts midway to a description of his brother's flight from London.  This shift did great damage to the novel, in my opinion, as it needlessly interrupted the flow of the story, a flow which was already greatly harmed by the author's endless orgies of overdescription.<br />As the story draws toward a welcome conclusion, the narrator's personal travails again serve to draw the reader back into the story, but even this renewal of interest is hampered by the fact that the narrator has long ago removed any ounce of suspense by making statements that easily inform the reader that he survives and the Martians do not; he even all but explains how the end of the Martians will come.  While the protagonist faces some harrowing situations throughout the story, the reader feels little tension or excitement about them because Wells has given away the ending early on.  There is no climax, only a welcome relief that the long foreseen end of the story has finally come.  The story's premise is wonderful, Wells' description of the Martians is unique and interesting, but the novel strikes me as a dud, defused by the author's own good intentions.  Having read several other novels and a good number of short stories by the author, I greatly admire Wells and enjoy his writing.  War of the Worlds, though, is largely, for want of a better word, boring.  I would warn potential readers not to expect a thrilling ride such as that provided by the Orson Welles radio broadcast; in the novel, there is of course no such thing as radio yet, and news of the invasion and the resulting panic spread very slowly.n, the narrator shifts midway to a description of his brother's flight from London.  This shift did great damage to the novel, in my opinion, as it needlessly interrupted the flow of the story, a flow which was already greatly harmed by the author's endless orgies of overdescription.  <br />As the story draws toward a welcome conclusion, the narrator's personal travails again serve to draw the reader back into the story, but even this renewal of interest is hampered by the fact that the narrator has long ago removed any ounce of suspense by making statements that easily inform the reader that he survives and the Martians do not; he even all but explains how the end of the Martians will come.  While the protagonist faces some harrowing situations throughout the story, the reader feels little tension or excitement about them because Wells has given away the ending early on.  There is no climax, only a welcome relief that the long foreseen end of the story has finally come.  The story's premise is wonderful, Wells' description of the Martians is unique and interesting, but the novel strikes me as a dud, defused by the author's own good intentions.  Having read several other novels and a good number of short stories by the author, I greatly admire Wells and enjoy his writing.  War of the Worlds, though, is largely, for want of a better word, boring.  I would warn potential readers not to expect a thrilling ride such as that provided by the Orson Welles radio broadcast; in the novel, there is of course no such thing as radio yet, and news of the invasion and the resulting panic spread very slowly.	2002-01-06
1708511:US	53016962	R27GNJ8AEO8U1A	0590457217	432195823	Searching for Dragons	Books	5	14	14	N	N	It's fantasy, it's comedy, it's . . . delightful	Kazul, King of the Dragons is missing, and sections of the Enchanted Forest have been stripped of their magic and turned into dust.  This can only be the work of those dastardly wizards.  In Searching for Dragons, we unite again with the delightful Cimorene, princess--make that Chief Cook and Librarian--for Kazul, the newly selected King of the Dragons as she seeks once again to thwart the plans of the Society of Wizards to steal untold amounts of magic from the land, this time by attempting to start a distracting war between the realm of dragons and the kingdom of the bordering Enchanted Forest.  Mendanbar, the young king of the Enchanted Forest, having discovered sections of his forest destroyed, heeds the council of a wise squirrel to seek the counsel of Morwen the witch.  She insists that he meet with the King of the Dragons, before which meeting he encounters the head wizard Zemenar, who implicates the dragons in the destruction he has discovered.  Boldly going to the Mountains of Morning, he encounters Cimorene, learns that Kazul is missing, and finds himself joining Cimorene in a search for the missing dragon.  Along the way, they encounter a pair of giants, survive a wild ride on a faulty magic carpet, repulse an attack by a horde of snakes, meet up with a strange, loquacious magician, and finally unite along with Morwen to take on the wizards and rescue Kazul.  This time, they need more than buckets of soapy water and lemon juice to defeat Zemenar's crew.<br />Wrede is a wonderful writer.  She is especially good at closing every hole in the story--things mentioned even briefly early on are brought into play before the end, and the fact that I as a reader actually forgot about many of them along the way just makes me respect her talents even more.  Her incorporation of fairy tale lore is brilliantly subtle, and her description of the magic practiced by Mendanbar, which is essentially a visual magic, is quite unusual and interesting.  I think that young and old alike can find great enjoyment in this book--I myself believe that it is very important to retain at least a measure of the wonder and magic we knew as children, and fantasy such as this helps much in this regard.  Do yourself a favor and read Dealing With Dragons first; you won't appreciate Cimorene nearly as much without knowledge of the first book.  While you're at it, go ahead and get Calling on Dragons and Talking to Dragons, as well--if you read one, you will want to read them all.old alike can find great enjoyment in this book--I myself believe that it is very important to retain at least a measure of the wonder and magic we knew as children, and fantasy such as this helps much in this regard.  Do yourself a favor and read Dealing With Dragons first; you won't appreciate Cimorene nearly as much without knowledge of the first book.  While you're at it, go ahead and get Calling on Dragons and Talking to Dragons, as well--if you read one, you will want to read them all.	2002-01-04
1713338:US	53016962	R8BRV1TXGW1OI	0812564839	861735579	The Lost World (Tor Classics)	Books	5	19	26	N	N	A high-adventure, scientific thriller	Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was really a very talented writer, and he had many tales to tell that did not involve the famous Sherlock Holmes.  The Lost World is perhaps the best known of his noncanonical stories.  He describes a lush, mysterious plateau in the remote Amazonian regions of South America in which creatures thought to have died out eons ago still stalk the earth.  Professor Challenger, while possessing some of the confidence and intellect of a Holmes, could not be more different in his passions and boisterous, conceited behavior; it is his contention that a &quot;lost world&quot; does exist.  Recruiting a disbelieving zoologist, a famed adventurer, and a fresh, young newspaper man to go with him, the group sets out for the inaccessible reaches of the jungle and manages, after some great effort, to reach the isolated plateau.  By an act of treachery by an Indian bearing a grudge against the famed Lord Roxton, their portal of entry is destroyed, leaving them trapped in the mysterious new land they dub Maple White Land after an American who earlier discovered the place but died soon thereafter (but not before encountering Professor Challenger in the Amazon and revealing to him its existence and location).  They build a camp and begin investigating the area, quickly discovering unknown forms of plant life and animal life, including dinosaurs and pterodactyls.  As if the monstrous reptilian beasts aren't hazard enough for them, they soon find themselves besieged by a vicious race of ape-men, whom they eventually take on in alliance with a separate race of Indians.  The newspaperman narrates events in a series of postings he manages to get sent back to London, describing the creatures and their habits.  Each man is called upon to distinguish himself through deeds of heroism in order to escape this newly discovered world and return to civilization with the scientific coup of all time.<br />Conan Doyle's characterizations and descriptions of both man and beast are rich and vibrant.  Ironically, the lost world seems much more real than the world of London.  The scientific meetings held in front of a number of disbelieving scholars result in great commotions, tempests of defamations and praises, fainting women, and combatant men.  When Challenger reveals his proof of the exploits that have been related, untold chaos and zeal follow quickly on the heels of one another.  As for the reporter, he made the astounding journey because of a woman--while this part of the story is somewhat silly, it is nevertheless fitting.  The woman he loves declares that she can only love a man who has taken great risks and won fame for himself, and this sets our protagonist on as daring an adventure as could be found at any time.  It may well be that such compulsions of the heart have led to many great acts and discoveries in history; it is even more probable that such exploits have been rewarded in the predictable way our protagonist's was, the details of which I will endeavor not to disclose here.<br />All in all, it's a wonderful tale of adventure, cunning, heroics, and scientific achievement.  Somewhat surprisingly, there are not that many dinosaurs described in the story.  We have a fleeting glimpse of a stegiosaur, but we mostly read of medium-sized dinosaurs such as the &quot;iguanadon.&quot;  There is no brontosaurus or T-Rex here, which is somewhat disappointing.  The jungle action actually centers around the ape-men and Indians, as once again, even amid the prehistoric realm of Jurassic life, we find that humanoids, even of the most primitive type, are the most dangerous, ruthless animals on the earth.ich and vibrant.  Ironically, the lost world seems much more real than the world of London.  The scientific meetings held in front of a number of disbelieving scholars result in great commotions, tempests of defamations and praises, fainting women, and combatant men.  When Challenger reveals his proof of the exploits that have been related, untold chaos and zeal follow quickly on the heels of one another.  As for the reporter, he made the astounding journey because of a woman--while this part of the story is somewhat silly, it is nevertheless fitting.  The woman he loves declares that she can only love a man who has taken great risks and won fame for himself, and this sets our protagonist on as daring an adventure as could be found at any time.  It may well be that such compulsions of the heart have led to many great acts and discoveries in history; it is even more probable that such exploits have been rewarded in the predictable way our protagonist's was, the details of which I will endeavor not to disclose here.  <br />All in all, it's a wonderful tale of adventure, cunning, heroics, and scientific achievement.  Somewhat surprisingly, there are not that many dinosaurs described in the story.  We have a fleeting glimpse of a stegiosaur, but we mostly read of medium-sized dinosaurs such as the &quot;iguanadon.&quot;  There is no brontosaurus or T-Rex here, which is somewhat disappointing.  The jungle action actually centers around the ape-men and Indians, as once again, even amid the prehistoric realm of Jurassic life, we find that humanoids, even of the most primitive type, are the most dangerous, ruthless animals on the earth.	2001-12-31
1714968:US	53016962	R2ZXRG4CEB367X	0070371393	864682308	Build Your Own PC Pocket Reference	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great reference book for building your first PC	When I built my own PC back in the summer of 1999, I relied upon this book as my primary resource.  Certainly, it is somewhat out-of-date now (but what computer book isn't by the time it reaches the shelves), but the fact remains that the primary steps and considerations in building a computer are basically unchanged.  You have to choose a CPU, a hard drive, a case, a floppy drive, a CD/DVD drive, a modem, a video card, a sound card, speakers, and a mouse.  Bigelow walks you through the process of making these individual decisions within the context of your primary objective.  He then walks you through assembling the parts into your very own new computer.  In terms of covering the basics, I would still rank this book among the best, especially for non-technical readers.  Certainly, the information on installing an operating system deals mainly with Windows 95 but I had no trouble installing Windows 98.  Anyone installing Windows NT/2000/XP will need to refer to other reference material, but this book strikes me as being intended mainly for home users looking to build or update a system of their own--even now, most such users will be looking at installing 98 or ME.  Also, I would consider the installation of an OS as somewhat separate from actually building a system, and it is the latter pursuit toward which this book is geared.<br />I believe that anyone, including those with little or no computer experience, can build a computer with the help of this book.  Furthermore, one can learn what to look for in deciding between different hardware options in terms of a PC's basic components.  I would not depend solely on this book for my reference material, but anyone wishing to build a PC or to decide whether or not they want to attempt such a rewarding endeavor would benefit from the guidance Mr. Bigelow provides here.  I am writing this review and submitting it on a computer I built myself, with a lot of help and guidance from this book.	2001-12-30
1716377:US	53016962	RPICLX0STXERA	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	49	62	N	N	Hillary Unmasked	This was an eye-opening read to say the least.  Even I, a proud member of the &quot;right-wing conspiracy,&quot; was shocked by some of the things I learned about the junior senator from New York in this book.  For one thing, Hillary was actually a Goldwater Republican in her youth.  Another shocking disclosure is the fact that Hillary disdained shaving and using deodorant until she became the First Lady of Arkansas.  I don't remember seeing any pictures of Hillary in her youth before, and now I know why.  She apparently embraced the hippie culture of the time wholeheartedly.  One thing the book did not completely clear up in my mind is the reason Hillary became so very radical so quickly.  Clearly, she always had a plan to be a powerful political leader.  I have often thought both she and her husband had no real political philosophy of their own, that they studied the political winds and grafted themselves to whatever issues seemed to be important to the voters.  Barbara Olson shows us clearly that Hillary certainly has a political mindset upon which she acts; Hillary Clinton is not just a liberal, she is a dyed-in-the-wool socialist.  This comes across most clearly in Hillary's passion for children's rights, a subject she has written much about.  What comes through loud and clear is the fact that she thinks the government should oversee childrearing in this country, that families just don't know how to raise their children, and thus the government must step in to do their jobs for them.  I had no idea just how radical her views on this subject were.<br />I won't take the time to mention all of the troubling things Hillary has done in her life.  Suffice it to say that Olson clearly shows Hillary's involvement in Travelgate, Filegate, Whitewater, and all the other well-known scandals. Overall, Hillary is shown to be a liar, a cheat, a foul-mouthed despot, and, indeed, a criminal.  Olson shows that Hillary knew all along about her husband's serial womanizing, even searching his desk for women's phone numbers when he was just starting out in politics, and that she accepted the fact, knowing that he was her ticket to political power.  It may well be that even she was surprised by the Lewinsky story, but the humiliation and betrayal she should have felt was subsumed by her drive for power; that is why she was first in line to defend her husband.  This book shows Hillary to be the driving force behind Bill Clinton's entire career.  While he tends to wallow in self-pity when he gets caught red-handed, Hillary refuses to let him sabotage her own political ambitions.  Olson shows that Bill Clinton to a large degree owes his political success to his wife.  That is why it is a marriage of convenience and, in the terms in which Hillary views the relationship, it is a very successful marriage.<br />Overall, I felt this book was actually quite objective.  You should not curse the writer for writing &quot;bad&quot; things about a person when the facts she presents are all too true.  This is a political biography, not a politicized hatchet job, although Olson obviously disapproves strongly of her chosen subject.  In terms of the restraint Barbara Olson showed, I must point out that she made no conjectures about the truly mysterious circumstances around Vince Foster's death.  She did not devote a lot of time to the Monica Lewinsky story or delve gleefully into all of its lurid details.  She did not come out and say, &quot;Look, this woman wants to be President, and we just can't let that happen.&quot;  She penetrated the mask of Hillary Clinton and let Hillary's own words and deeds tell the story.  Hillary has the right to think whatever she wants, but the American people have the right to know exactly what her true agenda is if she is going to pursue a political future.  Thanks to Barbara Olson, who was taken from us much too soon, we can all know a lot more about that agenda.searching his desk for women's phone numbers when he was just starting out in politics, and that she accepted the fact, knowing that he was her ticket to political power.  It may well be that even she was surprised by the Lewinsky story, but the humiliation and betrayal she should have felt was subsumed by her drive for power; that is why she was first in line to defend her husband.  This book shows Hillary to be the driving force behind Bill Clinton's entire career.  While he tends to wallow in self-pity when he gets caught red-handed, Hillary refuses to let him sabotage her own political ambitions.  Olson shows that Bill Clinton to a large degree owes his political success to his wife.  That is why it is a marriage of convenience and, in the terms in which Hillary views the relationship, it is a very successful marriage.  <br />Overall, I felt this book was actually quite objective.  You should not curse the writer for writing &quot;bad&quot; things about a person when the facts she presents are all too true.  This is a political biography, not a politicized hatchet job, although Olson obviously disapproves strongly of her chosen subject.  In terms of the restraint Barbara Olson showed, I must point out that she made no conjectures about the truly mysterious circumstances around Vince Foster's death.  She did not devote a lot of time to the Monica Lewinsky story or delve gleefully into all of its lurid details.  She did not come out and say, &quot;Look, this woman wants to be President, and we just can't let that happen.&quot;  She penetrated the mask of Hillary Clinton and let Hillary's own words and deeds tell the story.  Hillary has the right to think whatever she wants, but the American people have the right to know exactly what her true agenda is if she is going to pursue a political future.  Thanks to Barbara Olson, who was taken from us much too soon, we can all know a lot more about that agenda.	2001-12-29
1719971:US	53016962	R3JATO7NYH9OJ1	0590484753	536847715	Talking to Dragons (Enchanted Forest Chronicles)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A wonderful read for young and old alike	This is the fourth and final book in the Enchanted Forest chronicles.  While it is very good and does a nice job of wrapping up loose ends, I didn't find it quite as enjoyable as the first thee books.  This is largely because the action takes place sixteen years after the events in Calling On Dragons.  All of the main characters return for the climax in the battle between the dragons and the Enchanted Forest kingdom against the Society of Wizards, but in most cases they seem to be less substantive to me.  One of the strongest assets Wrede brings to bear in her writing is excellent characterization.  Having come to know the characters very well from the previous books in the series, their appearances here seemed more like cameo roles; if I did not already know these characters, their appearances and places in the overall story would not make a great deal of sense to me.  In some cases, especially in the case of Cimorene, characters didn't really act the way I expected them to, even given the passage of such a long time.<br />This book is different from its predecessors.  For one thing, it is written in the first person.  Daystar, the son of Cimorene, is suddenly witness to a wizard melting, given a mysterious sword, and instructed by his mother to enter the Enchanted Forest with virtually no instructions as to what he must do.  For his own protection, he has never been told of his heritage and history.  This novel is the story of his quest, his discovery of his own special fate, and his realization of his ultimate purpose in life, which is to free his father, defeat the ignominious ambitions of the Society of Wizards, and secure the magically vibrant future of the Enchanted Forest.  Although we as the reader know, if we have read the previous stories, who Daystar is and what he must do, it is interesting to see him discover the truth for himself and to learn just what the magical sword he was given by Cimorene is.  The companions he meets along his journey are wonderful new characters, especially the fire-witch Shiara; she, like Daystar, is trying to discover and use her own talents; unfortunately for her, being a rather impatient, somewhat hot-tempered fire-witch, she finds herself able to use her magical powers only after she has been polite to others, politeness not being one of her assets by any means.  Still, she is inherently likeable and easy to relate to.  The young dragon that accompanies the group is the source of many delightfully comic moments.<br />This book is geared more to young people than the others in the series, it would seem.  In this case, all of the protagonists--human, fire-witch, and dragon--are young people learning how to act, how to respect others, and how to succeed in life.  Any lessons for young adult readers, though, are subtle and take nothing away from a great story which I, as an adult, enjoyed immensely.  I must point out, though, that anyone unfamiliar with the first three books in the series may well have problems understanding just who everyone is and what is going on at times. This is a wonderful series for young and old alike, and I for one hope most sincerely that a fifth Enchanted Forest novel will appear some time in the future.erful new characters, especially the fire-witch Shiara; she, like Daystar, is trying to discover and use her own talents; unfortunately for her, being a rather impatient, somewhat hot-tempered fire-witch, she finds herself able to use her magical powers only after she has been polite to others, politeness not being one of her assets by any means.  Still, she is inherently likeable and easy to relate to.  The young dragon that accompanies the group is the source of many delightfully comic moments.<br />This book is geared more to young people than the others in the series, it would seem.  In this case, all of the protagonists--human, fire-witch, and dragon--are young people learning how to act, how to respect others, and how to succeed in life.  Any lessons for young adult readers, though, are subtle and take nothing away from a great story which I, as an adult, enjoyed immensely.  I must point out, though, that anyone unfamiliar with the first three books in the series may well have problems understanding just who everyone is and what is going on at times. This is a wonderful series for young and old alike, and I for one hope most sincerely that a fifth Enchanted Forest novel will appear some time in the future.	2001-12-26
1721513:US	53016962	R1RYG0JTHD2U0Y	0345378660	641763889	Angel Letters	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Nondenominational stories of mystical encounters	This is a fairly short book filled with letters from readers of the author's previous book on angels describing their own mystical encounters.  I think &quot;mystical encounters letters&quot; describes the contents better than angel letters because many of the letters have no direct relationships with angels as we usually picture them.  While this is a good book that surely provides help and inspiration to many readers, I personally found several entries to be quite mundane and far from angel-related.  Many of the wonders described come down to personal &quot;feelings&quot; and seemingly ordinary circumstances.  I should say that, as we all know, God works in mysterious ways, and I am sure that some of His greatest miracles and inspirations are utterly mundane and uneventful to eyes viewing the scene externally.  I do not mean to cast aspersions on any of the letters I read; I am only saying that the contents of some of them, while personally meaningful to the writers, will probably strike some readers as events of chance or coincidence.<br />It is important to say that this book is not &quot;preachy.&quot;  It addresses all sorts of believers and nonbelievers; there are quotes from the Bible, the Koran, and even non-theological writers interspersed in the margins throughout the book.  Among those letters testifying to a certain faith, we find Jewish, Catholic, and even non-religious statements of faith.  Clearly, this book can indeed provide motivation and comfort to an assortment of readers, no matter their religion.  Since the topics covered range from death to emotional trauma to simple appreciation of the beauties of nature, I feel sure that everyone who reads this book will find at least one section that speaks to him/her personally and provides a measure of comfort, peace, or inspiration.	2001-12-24
1722369:US	53016962	R2RQ8AGB9RRAIL	0590484672	333672873	Calling on Dragons ( The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book 3 )	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another wonderful Enchanted Forest story	Yet again, Wrede has produced an interesting, funny, thoroughly enjoyable work of fantasy.  The troublemaking wizards are back again, despite multiple meltings in the past, and are once again trying to increase their power by draining and stealing the magic of the Enchanted Forest.  Our heroes are also back to counter the dastardly plan--Queen Cimorene, King Mendenbar, Kazul the King of the Dragons, Morwen the witch, and Telemain the magician.  This time, they are joined by Morwen's nine magical cats, who are finally allowed to give their full voice to the story (although only some of the characters can actually understand their cat language), and also by the good-hearted but annoying Killer.  Killer, through a series of magical misadventures brought about primarily by his eternal hunger and lack of good sense, has changed from a normal rabbit to a giant rabbit, then to a giant blue donkey, after which he has also managed to grow giant wings, get himself stuck six inches above the ground, and become physically insubstantial.  This time, the wizards have managed to penetrate Mendenbar's castle and steal his magic sword.  With the sword now outside the Enchanted Forest, the wizards find themselves able to once again drain the magic from that land.  Mendenbar is compelled to stay at home as the other protagonists, including his pregnant wife Cimorene, leave the forest in search of the sword.  Wizards are melted (and finally even eaten by Kazul and some other dragons), strange characters are encountered, and things go pretty much as one would expect.  However, things do not all work out this time around; the ending is thus not wholly satisfying, but it does provide a lead-in to the book Talking With Dragons, the action of which takes place several years after the events we read about in the present story.<br />All in all, this is a fun, entertaining, quick read.  Morwen takes center stage for the most part this time and Mendenbar remains away from the action for the most part, but Cimorene, my favorite character, does play a large role in the affairs.  The fire-witches encountered are a little annoying, and Killer takes belly-aching (both literally and physically) to great heights.  I did love the nine cats, however.  Their constant arguing and teasing, along with their heroism and importance, gave a new dimension to the story, and it was gratifying to see the pains to which Wrede went to give them the traits, emotions, and affectations of cats in general.  The introduction of the magic mirrors, through which individuals can contact one another, is also a novel twist on both modern telephones and traditional fairy tales (Mirror, mirror, on the wall  I would like to make a call), and the &quot;operator&quot; provides a good bit of humor.  This book falls a little short of the greatness of its predecessors, but it clearly succeeds as a enchanted work of fantasy sure to delight young and old alike.  I feel compelled to say that you really should read the two preceding books, Dealing With Dragons and Searching for Dragons, in order to really appreciate the characters to the utmost, especially the fair and lovely Cimorene.t part, but Cimorene, my favorite character, does play a large role in the affairs.  The fire-witches encountered are a little annoying, and Killer takes belly-aching (both literally and physically) to great heights.  I did love the nine cats, however.  Their constant arguing and teasing, along with their heroism and importance, gave a new dimension to the story, and it was gratifying to see the pains to which Wrede went to give them the traits, emotions, and affectations of cats in general.  The introduction of the magic mirrors, through which individuals can contact one another, is also a novel twist on both modern telephones and traditional fairy tales (Mirror, mirror, on the wall  I would like to make a call), and the &quot;operator&quot; provides a good bit of humor.  This book falls a little short of the greatness of its predecessors, but it clearly succeeds as a enchanted work of fantasy sure to delight young and old alike.  I feel compelled to say that you really should read the two preceding books, Dealing With Dragons and Searching for Dragons, in order to really appreciate the characters to the utmost, especially the fair and lovely Cimorene.	2001-12-23
1729230:US	53016962	R1CLHW3AK7JZ74	0590457225	504604393	Dealing With Dragons (Enchanted Forest Chronicles)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Delightful Work of Fantasy	This is a delightful little book of fantasy. I think all of us like to escape from time to time to a world such as that of the Enchanted Forest and the Mountains of Morning. Although this world is inhabited by dragons and bothersome wizards, it is still an airy, light-filled world that captivates the imagination. Cimorene is a princess who has no interest in learning the things a princess is supposed to learn; she would rather learn fencing, magic, cooking, and other things forbidden by her parents. Her parents finally give up on changing her ways of thinking and decide to marry her off to the prince of a neighboring realm. Rather than submit to this unwanted fate, she takes the advice of a friendly frog and volunteers to serve as a dragon's princess. The dragon Kazul accepts her offer, and Cimorene goes to work organizing Kazul's treasure rooms, cataloguing the scrolls in her library, and making cherries jubilee and other foods for her. Several princes, including her betrothed, come calling to rescue her, and she has to continually explain to them that she does not want to be rescued. Cimorene comes to discover a plot between the Wizard Society and one turncoat dragon, and it is largely up to her and the princess Alianora, working in conjunction with Kazul, the witch Morwen, and a stone prince to sort out the plan and goals of this dastardly plot and prevent the dragons from granting kingship to the traitor. Even when things are hairy, Cimorene keeps her wits about her, foiling much of the action with her own extraordinary determination.<br />Apparently Wrede's Enchanted Forest chronicles are considered young adult literature. I did not know this when I began reading the story, and I certainly would urge other adults not to let this fact rob them of the opportunity to enter this wonderful realm of fantasy. The writing is witty, the plot is well-thought out, and the action moves along well with no dead spots or literary pot-holes. A few allusions to traditional fairy tales are interspersed in the story, lending a good bit of fun and charm to the book. Younger readers will find this book enjoyable, and Cimorene seems to me to be a pretty good role model for young women given her forthright nature, zest for learning, and discontent with the life others tell her she is supposed to lead. I look forward to reading the other books in this series.ry tales are interspersed in the story, lending a good bit of fun and charm to the book. Younger readers will find this book enjoyable, and Cimorene seems to me to be a pretty good role model for young women given her forthright nature, zest for learning, and discontent with the life others tell her she is supposed to lead. I look forward to reading the other books in this series.	2001-12-17
1732096:US	53016962	R19AJZ6QJ3G3X2	0451527038	403461738	The Call of the Wild and Selected Stories: 100th Anniversary Edition (Signet Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Powerful, gripping tales of nature and survival	I have to admit that I have not really given Jack London his proper due up to now.  Perhaps it is because I don't by my nature like outdoor adventure type stories, or perhaps it is because I associate White Fang and &quot;To Build a Fire&quot; with my youth.  The fact is that Jack London is a tremendously talented writer.  His understanding of the basics of life matches his great knowledge of the snow-enshrouded world of the upper latitudes.  The Call of the Wild, despite its relative brevity and the fact that it is (at least on its surface) a dog's story, contains as much truth and reality of man's own struggles as that which can be sifted from the life's work of many other respected authors.  The story he tells is starkly real; as such, it is not pretty, and it is not elevating.  As an animal lover, I found parts of this story heartbreaking: Buck's removal from the civilized Southland in which he reigned supreme among his animal kindred to the brutal cold and even more brutal machinations of hard, weathered men who literally beat him and whipped him full of lashes is supremely sad and bothersome.  Even more sad are the stories of the dogs that fill the sled's traces around him.  Poor good-spirited Curly never has a chance, while Dave's story is made the more unbearable by his brave, undying spirit.  Even the harsh taskmaster Spitz has to be pitied, despite his harsh nature, for the reader knows full well that this harsh nature was forced upon him by man and his thirst for gold.  Buck's travails are long and hard, but the nobility of his spirit makes of him a hero--this despite the fact that his primitive animal instincts and urges continually come to dominate him, pushing away the memory and reality of his younger, softer days among civilized man.  Buck not only conquers all--the weather, the harshness of the men who harness his powers in turn, the other dogs and wolves he comes into contact with--he thrives.  The redemption he seems to gain with the fortunate encounter with John Thornton is also dashed in the end, after which Buck finally gives in fully to &quot;the call of the wild&quot; and becomes a creature of nature only.  While this is a sad ending of sorts, one also feels joy and satisfaction at Buck's refusal to surrender to nature's harsh trials and his ability to find his own kind of happiness in the transplanted world in which he was placed.  This isn't a story to read when you are depressed.  London's writing is beautiful, poignant, and powerful, but it is also somber, sometimes morose, infinitely real, and at times gut-wrenching and heartbreaking.<br />The other stories are also powerful tales of survival (or demise) in the face of nature's harshness.  I feel I am not alone in saying that I cannot recall most of the stories I had to read in school in my younger years but I distinctly recall &quot;To Build a Fire.&quot;  London's real, visceral language and description is hard to forget, as is the human pride and stupidity that characterizes the protagonist--London seems to be saying that we must respect and understand nature in order to survive and prosper.  The protagonist's demise is more comical than tragic because of his lack of understanding and appreciation for the harsh realities of his environment.  All of the stories bear the same general themes as the two I have mentioned.  In each, man or beast is forced to battle against nature; survival is largely determined by each one's willingness or freedom to recede into primitiveness and let the blood of his ancestors rise up within his veins.  Those who refuse to give in to their lowest instincts and who do not truly respect nature do not survive.  I feel that London sometimes went a little overboard in &quot;The Call of the Wild&quot; when describing Buck's visions and instinctual memories of his ancestors among the first men, but his writing certainly remains compelling and beautiful, an important reminder to those of us today who are soft and take naturefor granted that nature must be respected and that even her harshest realities are in some ways beautiful and noble, and that the law of survival applies just as much to us as it does to the beasts of the field.e for granted that nature must be respected and that even her harshest realities are in some ways beautiful and noble, and that the law of survival applies just as much to us as it does to the beasts of the field.	2001-12-15
1734071:US	53016962	R3M9DIHGH3MI1J	0061050369	498222500	Moonfall	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Thrilling Sci-Fi Romp	Good science fiction is just fun to read.  In Moonfall, Jack McDevitt has given us a gripping, enjoyable story that held this reader's interest throughout.  I don't know if all of the science presented herein is wholly believable, but the author certainly makes it sound plausible.  The main characters are inherently interesting, especially Vice President Haskell; McDevitt actually makes the prominent politician very human, noble, and heroic.  The story is an exciting twist on the old planetary catastrophe theme--rather than have a comet hit the earth, McDevitt has a comet hit the moon.  That major event is really just the start of the action, though, as earth finds itself having to confront the effects of that spectacular explosion.  The race to evacuate the newly established Moonbase and then to find a way to avert a potential extinction event on the earth is thrilling and happens in the context of a dramatic, well conceived pace.<br />While the &quot;macro&quot; story was riveting and well-done, the &quot;micro&quot; stories were slightly problematic. The events are related in a chronological fashion, with constant shifts from one scene to another and back again.  It was hard to remember exactly who some of the secondary characters were, and some of them, especially those being employed to relate the devastating events happening on the earth, hardly seemed to belong in the story and, in a couple of cases, seemed to be left dangling at the novel's end.  Many of the main characters reacted to events in ways I would not have anticipated.  The president worried more about his &quot;legacy&quot; than the welfare of millions of Americans; many Americans refused to believe the situation was very serious at all; several astronauts were more worried about a future mission to Mars being scrubbed than losing the moon; even the main scientist suddenly risked the future of the planet out of narrow-mindedness.  I was surprised that the possible devastating effects on earth's tides was not mentioned until well into the story and never really addressed again--that's the first thing I think of when I contemplate the sudden destruction of the moon.<br />For a suspenseful, thrilling science fiction adventure story, you will find few novels that surpass this one.  It has more twists and complexities than your typical catastrophic science fiction story, and the plot is held together and developed very well.  The small things that bothered me a little bit do not really hurt the story in any way and certainly do not slow down its compelling pace. Finally, as an added bonus, this book highlights the ingenuity, heroism, and greatness of the American spirit.  This is the first McDevitt book I have ever read, but I have a feeling it will not be the last.des was not mentioned until well into the story and never really addressed again--that's the first thing I think of when I contemplate the sudden destruction of the moon.  <br />For a suspenseful, thrilling science fiction adventure story, you will find few novels that surpass this one.  It has more twists and complexities than your typical catastrophic science fiction story, and the plot is held together and developed very well.  The small things that bothered me a little bit do not really hurt the story in any way and certainly do not slow down its compelling pace. Finally, as an added bonus, this book highlights the ingenuity, heroism, and greatness of the American spirit.  This is the first McDevitt book I have ever read, but I have a feeling it will not be the last.	2001-12-13
1743765:US	53016962	R289ZAW1BDSQO6	0553213563	561513034	Around the World in Eighty Days (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Enjoyable but not enthralling	For some reason, I always envisioned a hot air balloon when I thought of Around the World in Eighty Days; in point of fact, a hot air balloon is about the only means of transportation not employed by Phileas Fogg in his circumnavigational sojourn (though it is given a fleeting thought by the hero at one point).  Fogg is an interesting character, a man who takes punctuality to an unheard of degree.  Basically, his whist partners at the Reform Club tell him there is no way to go around the globe in just 80 days, notwithstanding the fact that a detailed itinerary involving specific boats and trains promises to make it possible.  Fogg immediately bets half his fortune that he can do it, setting out on his journey that very night.  Passepartout, his newly hired manservant, finds himself dragged along on this historic journey.  It so happens that someone matching a description of Fogg has just robbed the Bank of England of 55,000 pounds, and a detective named Fix &quot;discovers&quot; his robber when Fogg arrives in Suez.  He wires England with the news and asks for an arrest warrant to be issued; before it arrives, Fogg is off again.  Fix finds himself joining in on Fogg's epic journey, waiting for the warrant to reach him on his way, then waiting to arrest Fogg when he steps back on English soil.  The travelers face many perils and stumbling blocks along their way, many brought about by Passeportout's naivete and later on by his selfless act of heroism.  At every turn, Fogg finds himself in need of alternate transportation methods; he employs, among other vehicles, an elephant, a bridge-jumping train, and a wind-propelled sled.  A series of uncommon adventures unfold, involving damsels in distress, Indian attacks, matters of honor, etc.  All these events come to a climax the day on which he is due back at the Reform Club.<br />There is not really much science in this fiction; instead, there is a good bit of geography; the stretches of text explaining the route from one place to another is rather boring to me personally.  Luckily, most of the book is full of action.  Throughout, the interesting Mr. Fogg remains as calm and placid as a cucumber while Passepartout provides some comic relief by continually finding himself in some sort of trouble.  Most of the actors come across as rather wooden and artificial, but the story is good and the ending is quite satisfactory.  The reading of this book led me to conjecture that this was one of Verne's earlier works because the characters here are rather drab compared to those in From the Earth to the Moon and because the pages are not weighed down by scientific terminology as in 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea; actually, it is one of his later novels.<br />Around the World in Eighty Days would well serve the purpose of introducing a Verne newbie to his writing.  If you want to see glimpses of Verne's prophetic scientific ideas, though, this is probably not the book for you; it is best suited for recreational reading.e place to another is rather boring to me personally.  Luckily, most of the book is full of action.  Throughout, the interesting Mr. Fogg remains as calm and placid as a cucumber while Passepartout provides some comic relief by continually finding himself in some sort of trouble.  Most of the actors come across as rather wooden and artificial, but the story is good and the ending is quite satisfactory.  The reading of this book led me to conjecture that this was one of Verne's earlier works because the characters here are rather drab compared to those in From the Earth to the Moon and because the pages are not weighed down by scientific terminology as in 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea; actually, it is one of his later novels.  <br />Around the World in Eighty Days would well serve the purpose of introducing a Verne newbie to his writing.  If you want to see glimpses of Verne's prophetic scientific ideas, though, this is probably not the book for you; it is best suited for recreational reading.	2001-12-06
1748546:US	53016962	RGI9HWMRDDBZK	0812504674	691093854	The Invisible Man (Tor Classics)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	One of Wells' Weaker Efforts	Frankly, I was disappointed by this book.  I won't dispute the fact that Wells is a fantastic writer, but this strikes me as a sub-par effort on his part.  I never got &quot;into&quot; this novel at all.  Largely, this is due to the characters, not one of whom I liked or identified with.  The invisible man himself is a wholly irredeemable character.  A mad scientist like Dr. Frankenstein earns some respect in my eyes because he is pursuing a grand mission; the mad scientist in this novel pursues invisibility solely for the purpose of satiating his own wishes and desires.  On top of that, he really lacks even a basic gameplan, so he ends up pillaging whenever the idea strikes him.  His harsh treatment of his fellow human beings and of animals is not adequately explained, so I do not know why he should be so mean-spirited.  His decision to suddenly institute a reign of terror among his fellow man seems rather silly and immature.  Thus, I simply dislike him.<br />The explanation of invisibility and how it is achieved seems rather unconvincing to me.  Certainly, such an imagined explanation is hard to put forth, but I felt Wells could have delved more deeply into the subject.  I was glad to see that only the man's body, and not his clothes, achieved invisibility, and I also liked the notion of his ingested food and drink being visible until such time as they are adequately digested.  As for the action, the characters all seemed to run around like Keystone cops throughout the story, an impression only intensified by Wells' use of dialect in the words of the less educated men and women.  There was an air of unbelievability inherent in the actions of both believers and nonbelievers in the invisible man.  The whole thing seems like a comedy of errors performed by wooden, puppetlike characters who did nothing to capture my attention.  Even the plot is rather unimaginative, culminating in a less than surprising ending.  I am a great admirer of H.G. Wells, but I just can't offer many praises for this particular novel.  If you want to read Wells, though, you almost have to read The Invisible Man at some point.  I would not start out with this book, but I would certainly put it on a short list of Wells novels to read simply because it is recognized as one of his more famous half dozen or so novels.ffer many praises for this particular novel.  If you want to read Wells, though, you almost have to read The Invisible Man at some point.  I would not start out with this book, but I would certainly put it on a short list of Wells novels to read simply because it is recognized as one of his more famous half dozen or so novels.	2001-12-02
1750196:US	53016962	R27KXV1MTJWMDU	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A Timely, Sobering Read	Certainly, this book addresses an important and timely topic, but it is not quite the doom and gloom tome I expected.  This is not to say that there are not many disturbing facts contained herein, though.  While it is quite disturbing to learn about some of the work done by Americans in offensive germ weaponry, it is even more disturbing to learn that we have stubbornly refused to commit ourselves to address the vulnerabilities in our defenses, vulnerabilities that were brought so vividly to light during the Persian Gulf War.  Many of the problems we are facing today, in the wake of the 9/11 attack, are the same problems we faced ten years ago as we prepared to take on Iraq: the question of anthrax vaccinations, means for detecting biochemical agents in the environment, the stockpiling of vaccines for smallpox and related diseases.  These problems should have been resolved or at least addressed more forcibly years ago.  The problems that the one anthrax vaccine producer in Michigan is now facing in terms of meeting FDA requirements are the very same problems it faced ten years ago.  Our government conducted some rather heinous acts in terms of developing the weapons we fear so much today, yet our response to the nation's obvious vulnerabilities in this regard has been half-hearted, scattered, and haphazard.<br />I was surprised to learn just how advanced the Soviets were in their germ warfare program (though I am not surprised that they wasted no time violating the 1972 treaty they signed and continued their secret, criminal work for almost three decades).  We are still years behind the Russians in terms of our understanding of germ weapons (both offensive and defensive measures), to the point that we are practically dragging our tongues over the chance to visit former Soviet labs to pick up clues to what our former enemies already know.  Other countries, Iraq in particular, are certainly working overtime trying to recruit former Soviet scientists and working to produce all manner of weapons with the intention of either blackmailing or destroying Western civilization.  Now, finally, I hope we have seen the light and are determined to put aside silly political wrangling in order to protect the American population from possible extinction at the hands of madmen.<br />I was surprised and pleased to learn that Bill Clinton did give some serious attention to the BW problem in his final years in office and actually did attempt to strengthen the nation's defenses against germ warfare.  Unfortunately, as with most things, his focus, while committed, was also sporadic; Clinton surely meant well, but he approached the problem in a series of fits and starts, often distracted by embarrassing problems of his own creation.  If the incentive does not now exist in the hearts and minds of the American people and the country's leaders to really address this huge problem, then surely it will never exist, and we will remain woefully vulnerable to attack from a myriad of madmen.  Biological and chemical weapons become easier and cheaper to produce every single day, and this threat will not go away.  Recombinant DNA technology already allows for the combination of two or more deadly diseases into one superbug, the type of killer that tortures and kills in more than one stage, becoming incredibly difficult to identify, let alone trace, while it is killing men, women, and children in untold numbers.  Every concerned citizen should read this book, for we can only face the coming threats with open eyes, knowledge, and steadfast determination.oduce all manner of weapons with the intention of either blackmailing or destroying Western civilization.  Now, finally, I hope we have seen the light and are determined to put aside silly political wrangling in order to protect the American population from possible extinction at the hands of madmen.  <br />I was surprised and pleased to learn that Bill Clinton did give some serious attention to the BW problem in his final years in office and actually did attempt to strengthen the nation's defenses against germ warfare.  Unfortunately, as with most things, his focus, while committed, was also sporadic; Clinton surely meant well, but he approached the problem in a series of fits and starts, often distracted by embarrassing problems of his own creation.  If the incentive does not now exist in the hearts and minds of the American people and the country's leaders to really address this huge problem, then surely it will never exist, and we will remain woefully vulnerable to attack from a myriad of madmen.  Biological and chemical weapons become easier and cheaper to produce every single day, and this threat will not go away.  Recombinant DNA technology already allows for the combination of two or more deadly diseases into one superbug, the type of killer that tortures and kills in more than one stage, becoming incredibly difficult to identify, let alone trace, while it is killing men, women, and children in untold numbers.  Every concerned citizen should read this book, for we can only face the coming threats with open eyes, knowledge, and steadfast determination.	2001-12-01
1752680:US	53016962	RRLDL83M7EVU5	0553214209	811335449	From the Earth to the Moon (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A wildly entertaining story	While I naturally have long admired Jules Verne for his outstanding scientific vision and prodigious talent as a writer, I really had no idea that he could also write in such an entertaining and humorous fashion as revealed in this short novel.  My memories of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea consist to a large degree of stretches of pages devoted to pure scientific language that could be hard to get through, but this book is an easy read full of action and laugh-out-loud commentary.  Don't get me wrong, though--the science is here, and Verne goes into a lot of details concerning the project from conception to reality, walking us through all of the steps involved in constructing the cannon and its projectile.  Surely, though, Verne knew that the very idea of launching men to the moon via a superhuge cannon was not really an idea that could work; as such, he lets the story and especially his characterizations of the main players in the drama, take center stage over the science.  What we end up with is a study of sorts of the American character, a tribute to the power of imagination and dreaming, the glorification of science, and a very funny story about some really amazing characters.<br />I can not begin to relate the number of truly humorous anecdotes and observations filling the pages of this story.  Barbicane, J. T. Maston, and Michel Ardan are quite memorable characters, and their acts and exploits will entertain you to no end.  Verne introduces subtle but hilarious remarks and observations throughout the entire book that will make you laugh out loud.  If the idea of hard scientific theorizing has scared you away from Verne, pick this book up and be wholly entertained.  I would recommend, though, that you pick up a copy that also contains the sequel, Round the Moon.  This first book essentially culminates in the firing of the men into space inside the projectile, and you will certainly want to read the story of what happens to the men afterward.  I now have to find a copy of the second book, so I urge others to save yourselves time and buy both stories in one package.a copy of the second book, so I urge others to save yourselves time and buy both stories in one package.	2001-11-29
1760256:US	53016962	R1P77IE908058L	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	454	491	N	N	A vampire novel second only to Stoker's	I am Legend is arguably the greatest short horror novel ever written, and its influence on the horror genre has been profound.  Stephen King and many other of today's masters rank this book highly in their personal top ten lists of favorites.  It is a short novel that can be read in one sitting; it is hard to put down, building in intensity from start to finish.  Matheson creates an entirely new type of vampire fiction herein.  Transcending the traditional vampire tale, he adds science fiction elements to produce a refreshing new interpretation of Stoker's legend.  The most fascinating part of the story is the protagonist's (Richard Neville's) attempts to explain the legendary aspects of the vampire myth in scientific terms.  His discovery of a bacterium, which he dubs vampiris, as the true source of vampirism struck me anew reading the novel again after the events of September 11, 2001.  Although we only get pieces of the story regarding the outbreak of the vampiric plague, including a reference to bombings, it can easily be seen as the fruits of germ warfare.  Neville even conjectures that the Black Death of the Middle Ages was caused by this same vampiris germ, and he extrapolates facts and ideas from that history in his attempts to understand why such defenses as garlic, crosses, and stakes driven into the heart actually are effective against the hordes of undead creatures menacing his own time.  He studies academic texts and conducts experiments with the blood of these creatures, which is the means by which he identifies the bacterium.  The essence of garlic has no effect on the germ when injected into a blood sample, which initially he is unable to explain, but he later is able to explain garlic's effectiveness.  Less scientific tests lead him to conclude that crosses are only effective against &quot;Christian&quot; vampires; the cross has no meaning to for vampires who were once Jews and Moslems, but sacred symbols of those religions, such as the Torah and the Koran, do.  All of these scientific tests and speculations are just fascinating.<br />Neville is essentially the last man on earth, and the loneliness of his situation is the central part of the story.  Matheson is able to communicate Neville's emotional feelings vividly, making him very real.  We gradually acquire the story of the deaths of Neville's wife and daughter, essentially experiencing the pain he goes through when these memories overcome him.  We watch him drink himself into a stupor as each night finds him besieged in his fortified house, surrounded by vampires, including his old friend and neighbor, calling for him to come out.  We watch him slowly lose his grip on sanity and come very close to giving up.  Then, however, we watch him overcome his depression and courageously fight to live in the nightmare world he is trapped in.  The scenes with the dog he finds are full of emotion and really gripped this reader.  This is Neville's first contact with nonvampiric life, and his attempts to befriend and help the poor creature (at the same time finally finding a companion) touched me greatly and brought tears to my eyes.  His eventual discovery of another human being like himself is also powerful and emotional, although to speak more about this aspect of the story is to risk giving something away to the future reader.<br />This is a story of one man overcoming all obstacles and fighting to defend his way of life and his very humanity.  The novel deals with the human condition, the essential ingredient to effective horror writing.  Neville struggles constantly with his doubts and fears, particularly as he commits acts that he would have condemned as barbarous in the time before the plague.  His needs for companionship of any kind offer us a clear image of the inner soul of man.  By the end of the story, he does indeed become legend, both in his world and in ours.e Koran, do.  All of these scientific tests and speculations are just fascinating.<br />Neville is essentially the last man on earth, and the loneliness of his situation is the central part of the story.  Matheson is able to communicate Neville's emotional feelings vividly, making him very real.  We gradually acquire the story of the deaths of Neville's wife and daughter, essentially experiencing the pain he goes through when these memories overcome him.  We watch him drink himself into a stupor as each night finds him besieged in his fortified house, surrounded by vampires, including his old friend and neighbor, calling for him to come out.  We watch him slowly lose his grip on sanity and come very close to giving up.  Then, however, we watch him overcome his depression and courageously fight to live in the nightmare world he is trapped in.  The scenes with the dog he finds are full of emotion and really gripped this reader.  This is Neville's first contact with nonvampiric life, and his attempts to befriend and help the poor creature (at the same time finally finding a companion) touched me greatly and brought tears to my eyes.  His eventual discovery of another human being like himself is also powerful and emotional, although to speak more about this aspect of the story is to risk giving something away to the future reader.  <br />This is a story of one man overcoming all obstacles and fighting to defend his way of life and his very humanity.  The novel deals with the human condition, the essential ingredient to effective horror writing.  Neville struggles constantly with his doubts and fears, particularly as he commits acts that he would have condemned as barbarous in the time before the plague.  His needs for companionship of any kind offer us a clear image of the inner soul of man.  By the end of the story, he does indeed become legend, both in his world and in ours.	2001-11-24
1761247:US	53016962	R3FYSHOCDR40CN	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	41	55	N	Y	A scathing indictment of Clintonism	For many of us, the terrible events of September 11, 2001, were made even more tragic when we learned that Barbara Olson was on board the plane that crashed into the Pentagon.  Barbara Olson was a noble, articulate, witty woman who put aside material interests in order to passionately, bravely defend the ideals she believed in--the very opposite of a Clinton.  It is fitting that her final contribution to American ideals comes in the form of this biting condemnation of the Clintons' final days in office.  For those who closely followed the revelations of Clinton's final days of self-indulgence and influence-peddling, there is not a whole lot of new material to be found in this book; for those who did not pay attention to the spectacle of those days, this book will be an eye-opener.  Truly, the only people who cannot see the Clintons for what they were (and are) are the willfully blind.<br />This book provides an excellent summation of the Clintons' final actions and the aftermath of disbelief and almost universal condemnation they inspired.  These are the acts that forced even Clinton's own liberal defenders to come forth and question his morals and ethics openly and forcibly: the outrageous pardons of Marc Rich, Pincus Green, Carlos Vignali, and an assortment of other terrorists, drug dealers, con artists, Clinton cronies and family members; the despicable pilfering of White House furniture; the shameless solicitation of bawdy gifts from supporters; the almost unlimited issuance of federal regulations and executive orders intended to help pad the Clinton legacy and to stymie the incoming Bush administration; and further abuses of power.  Olson forcibly shows the Clintons' explanations of themselves to be morally repugnant, self-serving, easily transparent, and laughable.<br />This is not psychobabble; it is a delineation of facts, with random jabs of wit interspersed throughout.  The facts as Olson presents them compel any reasonable person to conclude that Bill Clinton was by far the most corrupt President this country has ever put in office.  With Hillary's political ambitions almost certainly set on installing herself in the Oval Office in the future, Olson's warnings are timely and important.  This book is rather short and is a very quick read, which disappointed me somewhat.  I am sure the author could have devoted thousands and thousands of pages to the moral repugnance, greed, and complete lack of morals that define the Clintons even in their final days in power, but I imagine that it was Olson's purpose to reach and inform as many people as possible about the true nature of the Clintons rather than produce a weighty tome for scholars (most of whom, being liberals, would not have read it anyway).  There is but one question in my mind after reading this book: if Bill Clinton were still President, would he, for the right price, pardon the evildoers responsible for the untimely loss of Barbara Olson and thousands of innocent Americans on 9/11?ll Clinton was by far the most corrupt President this country has ever put in office.  With Hillary's political ambitions almost certainly set on installing herself in the Oval Office in the future, Olson's warnings are timely and important.  This book is rather short and is a very quick read, which disappointed me somewhat.  I am sure the author could have devoted thousands and thousands of pages to the moral repugnance, greed, and complete lack of morals that define the Clintons even in their final days in power, but I imagine that it was Olson's purpose to reach and inform as many people as possible about the true nature of the Clintons rather than produce a weighty tome for scholars (most of whom, being liberals, would not have read it anyway).  There is but one question in my mind after reading this book: if Bill Clinton were still President, would he, for the right price, pardon the evildoers responsible for the untimely loss of Barbara Olson and thousands of innocent Americans on 9/11?	2001-11-23
1776836:US	53016962	R23IOL1VOKTSQK	0192825232	206489188	The Mysteries of Udolpho (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	117	122	N	N	Literary Perfection	I fear I don't have the words to fully explain just how important, enjoyable, and breath-taking this novel is to me; The Mysteries of Udolpho is simply one of the greatest written works ever produced.  While this is a Gothic novel, arguably the greatest Gothic novel ever written, it is so much more than that.  &quot;Gothic&quot; denotes dark castles, spectral haunts, dastardly deeds performed by cruel, mysterious men--certainly these elements are here.  However, a large portion of this novel is simply beautiful--no one I know of has ever described the simple grandeur of life and nature or waxed more poetically on the noble merits of love and honor as does Ann Radcliffe.<br />Emily is one of the most memorable characters in all of fiction.  To be frank, I simply fell in love with her.  Through her, I was able to not only see but to better appreciate life itself and the simple beauties it manifests.  When she was hurt or pained, I shared her sorrow; many times, I felt compelled to jump up and somehow defend her against the monstrous injustices inflicted upon her.  I admired her morality and deep commitment to honor, a commitment so deep that she sacrificed in deference to it her own deep love for Valancourt, a love so deep that it alone allowed her to withstand the horrors of Count Montoni and the castle of Udolpho.  Certainly, Emily is very sensitive and overdramatic, and she does tend to faint a lot, but she is a pure angel to someone like myself who is a Victorian at heart.<br />The Gothic horror is very well done, but it does not take up nearly as much of the novel as I had anticipated.  Radcliffe can bring chills to readers even today.  The description of someone's silent entry by night into Emily's room is spine-tingling, as are the descriptions of Emily's reluctant journeys down to the catacombs beneath the castle.  The wide-eyed Annette's rambling descriptions of supernatural manifestations feed Emily's and the reader's own fears.  Emily escapes from the nefarious castle about two-thirds of the way through the novel, but a number of strange events at Chateau-le-Blanc quickly serve to return the reader to the dark dimensions of fright.  At that point, I wondered how so much story could be left to tell, but Radcliffe introduced new characters and new situations as compelling as those that had come before and succeeded in absorbing me even further into this world of her creation.  Lady Blanche inspired in me many of the feelings I felt for Emily, and the resulting story not only added much to the experience of this novel but ultimately helped to tie many threads together.  The experience of Emily and Annette in the late Countess' room, shut up for 20 years since the lady's mysterious death, was as frightening as any scene that took place inside the walls of Udolpho.  I did worry as I neared the final pages that Radcliffe would not successfully explain everything that had taken place or would leave some loose ends dangling--the only thing I was left wondering, however, was what happened to the dog Emily took with her to Udolpho after she escaped.<br />I wish I could mention all of the wonderful characters and all of the scenes and events, both beautiful and horrific, to be found in these pages.  These were times when I literally had to put one hand across the page to keep from jumping ahead to see what was about to happen.  I do want to stress the beauty and romance of the novel because these aspects are overshadowed by the perception people have of Gothic literature.  The story of Emily and Valancourt is one of the greatest love stories in literature.  Future readers, please don't pick the novel up until such a time as you are truly committed to reading it; it is rather long, and this is not a novel you will want to lay aside for several days at a time.  Also, the first 100 pages or so are somewhat hard to get through.  Radcliffe paints a living portrait of nature in these pages, describing more details than I could ever even hope to witness.  You won't encounter the Gothic horror you may be expecting until you get rather deeply into the story, so keep that in mind.  Approach this novel as you would a work of art because that is exactly what it is.even hope to witness.  You won't encounter the Gothic horror you may be expecting until you get rather deeply into the story, so keep that in mind.  Approach this novel as you would a work of art because that is exactly what it is.	2001-11-10
1812347:US	53016962	R3QTGKFCRENNB4	0192823515	950133441	The Castle of Otranto (The World's Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Gothic classic and a darn good read	Setting aside this work's importance as the first Gothic novel, it is also a terrific read.  Some critics disparage the quality of the writing, but I find it eloquent and enthralling.  Certainly, the style is antiquated and the milieu is one quite distant from that of the modern reader, but never have I read such long paragraphs so quickly and energetically.  I can appreciate the sentiments of its first readers who reportedly could not put the book down and longed for more after they turned the final page.  There is action aplenty to be found in these pages.  The characters are prone to make long, drawn-out speeches, but these never slow the pace of the story itself.<br />The characters are revealed quite poignantly through their speech and action, a fact which somewhat surprised me.  There was a deep complexity to Manfred that seemed to speak volumes; while he is surely tyrannical and, to some degree, evil, one can often sense an internal battle within his soul at moments of tragic importance.  While he cannot be liked, he can certainly be understood.  The young hero Theodore is  truly a remarkable lad, the very model of a virtuous, noble gentleman--most importantly, he is just as noble in peasant's rags as he is in princely attire.  The two young princesses, Matilda and Isabella, were marvelously portrayed--beautiful, kind, and virtuous to a fault.  Their mistreatment by their fathers is the great tragedy of the story.  They will gladly sacrifice their own virtue in acquiescence to the wishes of the men controlling their lives.  Such devotion is a symbol of the virtual prison that women were forced by society to dwell in for far too long.  They, much more than Theodore, are the true heroic figures to be found in the Castle of Otranto.<br />The servants were delightful in the naivete they evoked in conversation with their &quot;betters.&quot;  They were not truly nave, of course, and spoke the way they did primarily in order to protect themselves and their masters or mistresses.  Reading the conversations between Manfred and Bianca was akin to hearing the old &quot;who's on first&quot; skit.  While some may view it as tiresome, I found it quite funny, and I admired the wiles of Bianca in forcing such consternation in the evil Manfred.<br />I must point out that the conversations between characters can be somewhat trying to understand at times because the author does not begin a new paragraph each time a different character speaks.  There were times when I got lost and had to go back and reread several lines in order to figure out just who was speaking when.  All in all, this is a quick, entertaining read.  While it is the first real Gothic novel, modern readers should not pick this up and expect a horror story--the castle is not so dank, the labyrinths are not so gloomy, and the woods are not so dark and mysterious as to cause anyone in this day and age to sleep with the lights on.  Do not look with dismay at the long paragraphs and the antiquated modes of speaking; this is a short novel packed with action, told in a compelling manner.  Old it may be, but it is just a darn good read.sters or mistresses.  Reading the conversations between Manfred and Bianca was akin to hearing the old &quot;who's on first&quot; skit.  While some may view it as tiresome, I found it quite funny, and I admired the wiles of Bianca in forcing such consternation in the evil Manfred.  <br />I must point out that the conversations between characters can be somewhat trying to understand at times because the author does not begin a new paragraph each time a different character speaks.  There were times when I got lost and had to go back and reread several lines in order to figure out just who was speaking when.  All in all, this is a quick, entertaining read.  While it is the first real Gothic novel, modern readers should not pick this up and expect a horror story--the castle is not so dank, the labyrinths are not so gloomy, and the woods are not so dark and mysterious as to cause anyone in this day and age to sleep with the lights on.  Do not look with dismay at the long paragraphs and the antiquated modes of speaking; this is a short novel packed with action, told in a compelling manner.  Old it may be, but it is just a darn good read.	2001-10-12
1822580:US	53016962	R3LR07NF142KYJ	1931468028	23666559	Wieland: Or the Transformation: An American Tale	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A Classic of American Gothic Horror	Charles Brockden Brown's importance in the field of American literature is indisputably very high; thus, how unfortunate it is that his works are so unknown to us today.  Were it not for H.P. Lovecraft's mention of him in his essay &quot;Supernatural Horror in Literature,&quot; I myself would remain ignorant of his very existence.  Brown is arguably the father of the American novel, a brave pioneer in the era of the early Republic.  This man set upon himself the noble purpose of writing fiction for a living, going against the wishes of his family and the dictates of contemporary society.  Had there been no Charles Brockden Brown, there may never have been a Poe--at least, not Poe as we know him today.<br />The story is an Americanized Gothic romance.  The spirit of Gothic literature pervades the tale, but the setting has been transferred from old castles and courtly settings to a recognizably American rural landscape which is preeminently beautiful rather than spooky.  The horrors described so effectively by Brown are borne in the minds of the characters.  The female protagonist Clara narrates the tortured history of her family.  Her father dies mysteriously, perhaps by spontaneous combustion, ostensibly due to his failure to follow God's will in his life.  She enjoys a happy adult life with her brother and his wife until a stranger named Carwin appears and quickly becomes a part of their inner circle.  Carwin eventually becomes Clara's tormentor.  She, her brother, and their mutual friend Pleyel all hear mysterious, unexplained voices warning them of danger and imparting fateful news on several occasions.  Her brother, deeply religious like his father, is greatly affected by these phenomena--how much so we learn later in the novel.  Carwin fatefully destroys Clara's life when his evil designs paint her as a harlot in Pleyel's eye.  Her unrequited love for Pleyel is now met with his condemnation of her--the agony of the charges against her is particularly poignant in the early American era in which the story takes place.  On the fateful night, she discovers Carwin hiding in her home, and he admits to having had murderous designs on her.  Her sorrows are greatly magnified the following day by the murder of her brother's wife and five children by none other than her own beloved brother.  She blames Carwin for having influenced her brother to commit murder, but we later learn that dementia itself is almost surely to blame for her brother's wrongs.  Before the tale ends, she faces a confrontation with both Carwin and her murderous brother, an experience which she is fortunate to survive.<br />The tale itself is wonderful.  The suspense Brown draws out and continually heightens is first-rate.  Clara's encounters with voices and human spirits hidden in the darkness of her bedroom are spine-tingling.  The language of the novel does make it a work that requires some concentration on the part of the reader and may serve to frustrate some, but I think it greatly magnifies the horrific aspects of the tale.  The dialogues of the actors are admittedly overdramatic and drawn out.  No one speaks in this book; rather, everyone makes speeches.  The protagonist often resorts to long laments of her great woe and asks how she can possibly go on with the story.  Despite such dramatics on her part, though, Clara is clearly a brave, independent woman (reflecting Brown's strong and admirable commitment to the rights of women).  Overall, the tale delivers a buffet of the passive voice style of writing, which I for one refuse not to love; even the most unimportant sentences are graced with a flowery, beautiful aspect.<br />In terms of the Gothic element to the story, one cannot say that the supernatural aspects are wholly disproved in the end--to some extent they are, but not to such an extent that Wieland's murderous actions can be explained by them.  Clearly, Wieland did hear voices other than those made by Carwin the biloquist.  The air of mystery that remains about Wieland's dementia and the causes of it makes the ending more successful than I feared it would be once I learned of the power of ventriloquism exercised by Carwin to dictate many of the related events.  My only complaint is with the final chapter, which is basically an epilogue in the protagonist's journal.  Inexplicably, it introduces a new character to explain something about a minor character whom I frankly could not even remember.hat remains about Wieland's dementia and the causes of it makes the ending more successful than I feared it would be once I learned of the power of ventriloquism exercised by Carwin to dictate many of the related events.  My only complaint is with the final chapter, which is basically an epilogue in the protagonist's journal.  Inexplicably, it introduces a new character to explain something about a minor character whom I frankly could not even remember.	2001-10-01
1831387:US	53016962	R31FZX9JMTKVMT	0849938716	693892209	Angels	Books	5	169	172	N	N	Angels 101	This book is basically a layman's guide to angels.  Graham uses the Bible as his only source of information on the subject, and he does a very good job of describing the heavenly hosts to readers.  The book was written largely in response to the proliferation of books centering around demonology and New Age ideas in recent years; as he points out, there really aren't many satisfying treatments available of angels per se. Sadly, modern man's conception of angels has been shaped and largely determined by popular entertainment; Graham effectively delineates truth from lies and imaginative thinking.  The book is meant to inspire and comfort as much as it is to inform the reader.  Graham offers many penetrating insights into the subject, but, most importantly, he lays out the basic facts about angels as they are revealed in the Bible.  He describes a hierarchy of angels that is more extensive that I realized--at the top is the archangel Michael, followed by Gabriel, then cherubim and seraphim, and finally a myriad of different principalities, authorities, etc.  Angels, Graham argues, perform different functions but serve only to glorify God and assist man in attaining salvation.<br />While the concept of a hierarchy among angels seems somewhat strange, given that it necessarily implies varying levels of power and authority and, thus, inequality among these divine beings, Graham does an excellent job of explaining what angels do and, more interestingly, what they cannot do.  Angels, first and foremost, praise the Lord and work for Him in all things; they serve as His divine warriors and as the protective agents of every Christian in the world.  Interestingly, angels cannot preach to man or take any other action to compel man to repent of his sins because each man must make his own decision for or against Christ.  One of the explanations Graham suggests for angels' inability to actively win human souls is the fact that angels do not know sin and cannot relate to the miraculous conversion from sin to faith in Christ.  What I find most interesting about angels, and this is a notion borne out by Graham's writing, is the fact that they will be subordinate to saved human souls in heaven.  Though born wretched, those men and women who accept God's salvation will live eternally in a closer relationship with God than the sinless angels do.<br />Many readers will find the information on Lucifer and his fall from heaven the most interesting section of the book.  I certainly cannot understand how any angel, created without sin, can somehow fall victim to pride (which Graham implies is the seedbed of all sin), especially to the point where he will challenge God for His throne and, even more amazingly, convince up to one third of all angels to join with him in the revolt.  Graham does a good a job as anyone at explaining the origins of Satan (as well as the inevitable defeat of the prince of lies).<br />The true purpose of the book is to win new souls for the Lord and to offer comfort and inspiration for those already redeemed.  Graham makes the case that, for Christians, angels are always over our shoulder watching out for us, that they love each of us and rejoice each time a new soul is won, and that they will be there to guide us directly to Heaven once we pass away.  The only weakness of the book is, ironically, also its greatest strength--it is written so that anyone can understand it.  While I might turn away from a hefty theological tome, I would very much like to see a more detailed, scholarly treatment of the subject, especially by such an authority as Billy Graham.lous conversion from sin to faith in Christ.  What I find most interesting about angels, and this is a notion borne out by Graham's writing, is the fact that they will be subordinate to saved human souls in heaven.  Though born wretched, those men and women who accept God's salvation will live eternally in a closer relationship with God than the sinless angels do.  <br />Many readers will find the information on Lucifer and his fall from heaven the most interesting section of the book.  I certainly cannot understand how any angel, created without sin, can somehow fall victim to pride (which Graham implies is the seedbed of all sin), especially to the point where he will challenge God for His throne and, even more amazingly, convince up to one third of all angels to join with him in the revolt.  Graham does a good a job as anyone at explaining the origins of Satan (as well as the inevitable defeat of the prince of lies).  <br />The true purpose of the book is to win new souls for the Lord and to offer comfort and inspiration for those already redeemed.  Graham makes the case that, for Christians, angels are always over our shoulder watching out for us, that they love each of us and rejoice each time a new soul is won, and that they will be there to guide us directly to Heaven once we pass away.  The only weakness of the book is, ironically, also its greatest strength--it is written so that anyone can understand it.  While I might turn away from a hefty theological tome, I would very much like to see a more detailed, scholarly treatment of the subject, especially by such an authority as Billy Graham.	2001-09-23
1835542:US	53016962	RTC60J60ZZ8GT	0440176468	584195945	Slaves of Sleep	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Classic That Needs To Be Reprinted	L. Ron Hubbard was truly an unusual man, and he was just as truly a fantastic writer of science fiction and fantasy.  It is unfortunate that great books such as this one, by one of the preeminent authors in the field, can be so hard to come by these days.  Slaves of Sleep is a brilliant takeoff on the mystery of sleep and the age-old question of where we &quot;go&quot; while we are sleeping.  Jan Palmer is a meek, bookish sort who finds himself in the unfortunate circumstance of crossing paths with a jinn, a demonic genie of lore.  The jinn, having been trapped in a jar for thousands of years, takes out his frustration on the maniacal doctor who breaks the seal, then invokes the curse of &quot;eternal wakefulness&quot; on poor Jan.  Our mild-mannered protagonist finds himself charged with murder, and then--when things could not seem to get worse--finds himself in another world in another body at the exact moment he falls asleep.  As he comes to grips with the dual nature of his soul, he shifts back and forth between the two worlds, and he gradually learns to meld the best qualities of the two.  His other self is a renegade pirate in a world run by the jinn with the help of human slaves.  These slaves are not supposed to know about their dual existence in the real world, and Jan thus becomes a threat to the jinn in this other realm.  Using the wit of his real self and the cunning of his other self, he is able to get his hands on the powerful talisman known as the Seal of Sulayman; this gives him a secret weapon to use in his struggles to save himself from imprisonment and death in two worlds.<br />While this was a leisurely, enjoyable book, I must say that I was not totally satisfied with the ending--somehow it seemed too abrupt.  The resolution took place almost wholly in the dream world, which disappointed me because the most compelling facet of the story for me was the strange love story between Jan and his assistant.  The only thing that sort of annoyed me was Hubbard's seeming delight in using nautical terms to describe the pirate boats that are a mainstay throughout the story, but this is just quibbling on my part.  The unfamiliar terms slow you down a little bit at times, but the action maintains a steady pace from beginning to end.Hubbard's seeming delight in using nautical terms to describe the pirate boats that are a mainstay throughout the story, but this is just quibbling on my part.  The unfamiliar terms slow you down a little bit at times, but the action maintains a steady pace from beginning to end.	2001-09-19
1838247:US	53016962	R18XBTMXE69S35	0849931606	597505325	How To Be Born Again	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Book Anyone Can Benefit From	While useful to any Christian, this book is written primarily for those searching for a relationship with God and those newly born into the Christian faith.  Far from being a theological tome, it is written in such a way as to maximize its comprehension among all manner of individuals.  In this regard, it is equivalent to the language used by Jesus Himself.  This book is filled with personal experiences and observations of the author--as with virtually any preacher, Billy Graham has a little story to exemplify and clarify any point he wants to make.  This book can easily be understood by children as well as adults, by people with no previous knowledge of the Gospel as well those raised in a setting where the Bible is known and read.<br />It is important to note that Graham's message about &quot;how to be born again&quot; deals as much (if not more) with the time after religious conversion as it does with the steps toward and realization of salvation.  While Graham argues that the most important decision a person can make is his/her personal decision to accept God's saving grace through faith, he also forcefully shows that the time after that momentous decision is the most important (and dangerous) time in the life of the Christian.  The new Christian is essentially a child in Christ and needs the support of other Christians in order to really learn how to live a Christian life and arm himself against the temptations he/she will immediately and continually face to sin and backslide.  Graham tries to offer the reader the tools he/she needs in order to mature in the faith and live a life pleasing to God.<br />On the whole, Graham does a very good job of explaining just how simple the act of salvation is.  He breaks it down to four steps: recognize God's love for you, truly repent of your sins, give your soul over to God, and tell others of your decision.  Beyond that, he offers advice and support for growing in your faith throughout your new life.  This is a book anyone can understand and benefit from.nyone can understand and benefit from.	2001-09-16
1842264:US	53016962	R2TGHFUJL5VFV6	0099093006	314124429	Dracula's guest	Books	5	57	60	N	N	Terrific stories from a true master of horror	Even had Bram Stoker not penned the fabulously successful Dracula, efforts such as the stories in this book would more than qualify him as a gifted, masterful writer, with a special penchant for writing horror.  The most prominent story in these pages is of course &quot;Dracula's Guest,&quot; a story excised from the final manuscript of Dracula.  This is an interesting, well-told tale, but its exclusion from the aforementioned novel seems to me to be rather inconsequential.  The real jewel of this collection is &quot;The Judge's House.&quot;  I have read this story several times over the last decade or so, and I must say that this is my favorite horror story of all time.  It somewhat chagrins me to make such a pronouncement, thinking of the masterful tales of Lovecraft, Poe, and King, yet I am compelled to make it.  The ending may be somewhat cliched , but the dark, brooding, smothering atmosphere Stoker creates in this house is powerful and brilliant.  The Judge's House may well be the most haunted house in literature.<br />The other seven stories are less noteworthy but eminently readable.  Again, there are some cliches to be found among them, but they all &quot;work.&quot;  &quot;The Squaw&quot; is my least favorite--it is, to some degree, silly n terms of its characters and ending.  I should also add that animal lovers such as myself may well be somewhat traumatized by one incident in the story--I certainly was.  &quot;The Secret of the Growing Gold,&quot; &quot;The Gypsy Prophecy&quot; and &quot;The Coming of Abel Behenna&quot; are pretty standard fare.  &quot;The Burial of the Rats&quot; presents a thrilling, well-thought-out story of danger and escape (as well as a grim portrait of some of society's underbelly).  &quot;A Dream of Red Hands&quot; is a sort of moralistic story that puts me in mind of some of Hawthorne's work.  Finally, &quot;Crooken Sands&quot; is a good doppelganger tale whose presentation and overall air seem different, if not unique, from the other tales in this book.  If you love old Scottish dialogue, you will reap some benefits from this story--for the rest of us, though, it makes for some slightly harder reading (but I think the story would be much less effective without it).<br />All in all, Stoker was a more than capable short story writer, even though he did sometimes stick too closely to the classic form; cliches and predictable plot points do diminish the quality of a few stories but by no means do they seriously hamper the effectiveness of them.  It is unfortunate that many people think Stoker wrote Dracula and nothing else.  The selections in this book are classic horror stories that only help to grant legitimacy to the genre.the other tales in this book.  If you love old Scottish dialogue, you will reap some benefits from this story--for the rest of us, though, it makes for some slightly harder reading (but I think the story would be much less effective without it).  <br />All in all, Stoker was a more than capable short story writer, even though he did sometimes stick too closely to the classic form; cliches and predictable plot points do diminish the quality of a few stories but by no means do they seriously hamper the effectiveness of them.  It is unfortunate that many people think Stoker wrote Dracula and nothing else.  The selections in this book are classic horror stories that only help to grant legitimacy to the genre.	2001-09-11
1845385:US	53016962	R3H81WK7GJ02OJ	0807107751	524490655	The South and the Politics of Slavery, 1828--1856	Books	3	6	10	N	N	An Untenable, Myopic Assessment of the Antebellum South	William J. Cooper goes to great lengths to reinforce the stereotype that southern politics before the War Between the States was centered around the issue of slavery and that local issues were unimportant compared to it. In The South and the Politics of Slavery, 1828-1856, Cooper is especially explicit in announcing slavery to be the &quot;fulcrum&quot; of southern politics. The book covers the period of the second American party system, from 1828 and the advent of Jacksonianism to the disintegration of the Whig party in 1856. In explaining why Whigs as well as Democrats spoke &quot;constantly&quot; about slavery-related issues, Cooper argues that only the slavery issue afforded political stability to any party position. He insists that the white South was of a unified, proslavery mind. He is not completely successful at explaining why this should be so. He does succeed in describing slavery as a national issue, pointing out that only the national government could officially recognize the peculiar institution's legitimacy in America. In the process of explication, Cooper seems to imply that the parties were utilized by southern politicians to gain national power, which could then be harnessed to protect southern rights. Since the second party system first emerged in 1828, he seems to date the birth of the southern rights crusade to a time even before the Nullification crisis.<br />Cooper identifies four factors that animated the &quot;politics of slavery&quot;: the institution of slavery itself, southern parties and politicians, the political structure of the South, and the values of white southern society. Cooper would certainly agree that the North and South were culturally different in the antebellum era. He describes this sectional difference in political terms: local issues predominated in northern politics, whereas slavery dominated southern political discourse. Conditionally, southerners viewed parties' roles differently than did their northern counterparts--southerners relied on the national parties to work for the preservation of southern rights within the nation. Local issues were irrelevant in the South, Cooper argues repeatedly, compared to the indomitable politics of slavery. He rejects emphatically the common belief that economic matters defined party politics in the era of the second party system. Cooper dismisses the crucial significance of economic and diverse social issues at the local and state level by placing over each such issue a mask of proslavery. Specific issues emerged and faded, he argues, but slavery remained always at the core of each one. He does not seek to understand just who became Whigs or who became Democrats or the reasons why, for he sees in the South a unified system of political thought. Cooper's argument is almost circular: the drive for southern rights shaped the national party structure, but this selfsame party system fostered sectionalism within the parties and essentially destroyed the second party system. Cooper insists that the Democrats enjoyed political hegemony in the South in the late 1850s because no new party could replace the Whigs under the unspoken rules of the southern political system; the existence of anti-Democratic voters--who were a large minority of the southern population--and the existence of local issues could not subsume the slavery issue in politics. Cooper relies mainly on data from Presidential elections, ignoring nonpresidential contests at the state and local level. This approach prevents him from acknowledging the lack of unity and order in southern politics. He refuses to admit the existence of discord not only between but within parties, and he is blind to any evidence that the South was anything but unified in proslavery ideology by the 1850s.southerners relied on the national parties to work for the preservation of southern rights within the nation. Local issues were irrelevant in the South, Cooper argues repeatedly, compared to the indomitable politics of slavery. He rejects emphatically the common belief that economic matters defined party politics in the era of the second party system. Cooper dismisses the crucial significance of economic and diverse social issues at the local and state level by placing over each such issue a mask of proslavery. Specific issues emerged and faded, he argues, but slavery remained always at the core of each one. He does not seek to understand just who became Whigs or who became Democrats or the reasons why, for he sees in the South a unified system of political thought. Cooper's argument is almost circular: the drive for southern rights shaped the national party structure, but this selfsame party system fostered sectionalism within the parties and essentially destroyed the second party system. Cooper insists that the Democrats enjoyed political hegemony in the South in the late 1850s because no new party could replace the Whigs under the unspoken rules of the southern political system; the existence of anti-Democratic voters--who were a large minority of the southern population--and the existence of local issues could not subsume the slavery issue in politics. Cooper relies mainly on data from Presidential elections, ignoring nonpresidential contests at the state and local level. This approach prevents him from acknowledging the lack of unity and order in southern politics. He refuses to admit the existence of discord not only between but within parties, and he is blind to any evidence that the South was anything but unified in proslavery ideology by the 1850s.	2001-09-08
1845701:US	53016962	R3I6IVZAHMV16N	0521795508	840391642	One Kind of Freedom: The Economic Consequences of Emancipation	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Economics for Historians	In essence, this is an economic interpretation of Southern history in the late nineteenth century based primarily on statistical data.  The authors began this project when they noticed the scarcity of scholarship concerning the economic institutions which took the place of slavery in the South; they felt it necessary for the understanding of the Negro experience to understand the manner in which the Negro entered into a nonbinding economic lifestyle in the years after the War Between the States and Reconstruction.  A primary concern of the authors was the economic malaise of the South agriculturally and certainly industrially in the period from 1865 to 1914, a time of impressive economic growth elsewhere in the nation.<br />The authors devote much of their study to a region they define as the Cotton South, wherein they see homogeneous development. They stress the fact that they are economists and not historians--political, social, and cultural history are beyond the scope of this book. While the authors may at times refer to economic effects of noneconomic forces, they make no attempt to do anything more than offer an economic interpretation of the post-emancipation South; that alone signifies their contribution to the historical field. In the end, they give their ideas as to the evolution of a Southern economy that exploited farmers--white and black--and allowed for little or no industrial development.	2001-09-08
1845746:US	53016962	R64NGV3MZZ1T2	080712429X	831341683	Toward a Patriarchal Republic: The Secession of Georgia	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Penetrating Study of Secession in Georgia	The intricacies of Southern political and social thought are very well reflected in Michael P. Johnson's study of secession in Georgia. Johnson rejects the traditional explanations of Georgian secession: that Georgians misinterpreted the threat posed by Lincoln's election and fell victim to Fire-eater rhetoric or that the electorate, allowed a new role in determining state policy in the wake of the collapse of political parties in 1860, led Georgia out of the Union in a wave of passion. He follows up on Eugene Genovese's view that slavery's ascension to a priority greater than that of the Union's preservation led to secession, and that the movement was led by the planter elite. Working on the basis of contemporary explanations of the crisis, Johnson argues that secession was a rational decision made by state leaders. Significantly, though, he identifies the threat behind secession as being not the external threat posed by abolitionism so much as the internal threat within Georgian society itself. He stresses the fact that deep divisions manifested themselves in the debates over secession, in Georgia and across the South. The planter elite, he suggests, saw the crisis as a test of their hegemony in the state; they supposedly worried that their fellow slaveholders would be won over by Republican rhetoric eventually, especially if it manifested itself in the form of patronage enticements. Because slaveholders were unsure as to the long-term commitment to slavery by members of their own circle, they seceded in order to forestall the penetration of the Republican party into Georgia. According to Johnson, there was no ideological consensus behind the state's secession.<br />Johnson describes a double revolution in Georgia. The first revolution was one for home rule; this involved eliminating the external threat to Southern society, and it was achieved by the decision to secede from the Union.  Attention was then turned to a revolution that was internal in nature, the struggle for who would rule at home. This problem was addressed by drafting a new state constitution, one guaranteeing power to the planter elite. He concludes that &quot;secession was driven by political conflict not only between the South and the North but also between the black belt and the upcountry, slaveholders and nonslaveholders, and those who feared democracy and those who valued it.&quot; In the battle for who would rule at home, Johnson describes how the elite created a &quot;patriarchal republic&quot; designed so as to mollify internal discord within white Georgian society. This &quot;patriarchal republic,&quot; free of the potential excesses of democracy, would soon be destroyed by the War Between the States.ggle for who would rule at home. This problem was addressed by drafting a new state constitution, one guaranteeing power to the planter elite. He concludes that &quot;secession was driven by political conflict not only between the South and the North but also between the black belt and the upcountry, slaveholders and nonslaveholders, and those who feared democracy and those who valued it.&quot; In the battle for who would rule at home, Johnson describes how the elite created a &quot;patriarchal republic&quot; designed so as to mollify internal discord within white Georgian society. This &quot;patriarchal republic,&quot; free of the potential excesses of democracy, would soon be destroyed by the War Between the States.	2001-09-08
1845898:US	53016962	R1DIOL8M00TXZU	0393007308	126565677	Crisis of Fear: Secession in South Carolina (Norton Library, N730)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	An Excellent Study of South Carolina's Secession	Stephen Channing ascribes the secessionist movement of 1860 in South Carolina to a &quot;crisis of fear.&quot; South Carolinians, ever conscious of the black majority in their state, worried continuously about controlling the Negro in the absence of slavery. This fear, according to Channing, was crystallized into rife paranoia in the wake of John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry. Internal tensions, such as the perpetual contest between upcountry and lowcountry planters for primacy in state government, were eclipsed by this terrible fear. Moderates, who had opposed secession or, at the least, the secession of the Palmetto state on its own, essentially handed over the reins of leadership to the radicals--at the time, it appeared that the dire warnings long spewed forth by the Fire-eaters were becoming reality. Channing implies that Southern culture differed from that of the North to such a degree that secession was inevitable, and he contends that slavery was at the core of the mindset that animated the War Between the States.	2001-09-08
1853135:US	53016962	R3UISYRIW3ZKWW	0679602305	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Modern Library)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Far-reaching work quite relevant today	This is certainly an interesting work, though not nearly as exciting or gripping as The Time Machine or War of the Worlds.  For some reason, I had the notion in mind that this short novel was a &quot;most dangerous game&quot; type of story where the protagonist is hunted, but this is of course not true.  Dr. Moreau is a scientist--a quite mad one, actually--whose life's work involves vivisection; in essence, he takes a plethora of animals and, through surgery and mental indoctrination of some sort, attempts--with varying success---to endow them with humanity.  The result is a twisted menagerie of beasts who share both human and animal traits of myriad sorts.  They can understand human speech, in fact, which has allowed the doctor to indoctrinate them into a worldview wherein he is the god whose laws must be obeyed.  While the story of the protagonist, Prendrick, is interesting, from his initial shipwreck to his &quot;rescue&quot; and eventual escape, his main purpose in the story is to describe the inhabitants of this macabre island.  As one may imagine, this isolated, fragile society eventually breaks down and the beasts regress more and more into their animal instincts, to the great detriment of the &quot;god&quot; Moreau and his rather pitiful assistant Montgomery.<br />Metaphors and broad, deep-reaching themes abound in this tale.  While one can certainly make out an obvious theme concerning man's desire to play God and the negative consequences of such efforts by science, there are deeper and more mysterious conclusions one can draw about Wells' view of humanity itself.  While this is certainly not a racist novel, one can conceivably see it as a warning against racial mixing, particularly in terms of the notion that the lower and more &quot;bestial&quot; traits will eventually win out over any &quot;higher&quot; traits imbued into a mixed creation, a common idea at that time.  However, I tend to see the strange human-animal creations of Dr. Moreau as a microcosm of mankind itself.  There is evil (or bestiality) present in all men which has the danger of erupting to the surface at any time; no set of external factors can make a truly good man.  Society will always have a minority who are bestial in nature and who cannot be redeemed despite the best efforts of that society's members to form a perfect world.  The tale is a rather unusual one for Wells, it would seem, particularly in terms of this seemingly negative interpretation of society itself.  There are no good guys in this tale; every character is a victim; the experimentation (social as well as physiological) of Dr. Moreau is an unadulterated failure.  Perhaps the conclusions I have drawn from reading this story are my own alone.  The Island of Dr. Moreau, however, clearly shows the depths of Wells' thinking and his deep interest in society and its ills, and it challenges the reader to think about the negative consequences of genetic and social engineering.  As always, H.G. Wells shows himself to be a far-reaching thinker and a man truly before his own time.m of mankind itself.  There is evil (or bestiality) present in all men which has the danger of erupting to the surface at any time; no set of external factors can make a truly good man.  Society will always have a minority who are bestial in nature and who cannot be redeemed despite the best efforts of that society's members to form a perfect world.  The tale is a rather unusual one for Wells, it would seem, particularly in terms of this seemingly negative interpretation of society itself.  There are no good guys in this tale; every character is a victim; the experimentation (social as well as physiological) of Dr. Moreau is an unadulterated failure.  Perhaps the conclusions I have drawn from reading this story are my own alone.  The Island of Dr. Moreau, however, clearly shows the depths of Wells' thinking and his deep interest in society and its ills, and it challenges the reader to think about the negative consequences of genetic and social engineering.  As always, H.G. Wells shows himself to be a far-reaching thinker and a man truly before his own time.	2001-09-02
1853140:US	53016962	R2QPSJO7805GZ7	0679832602	269074457	The Mystery of the Talking Skull (Three Investigators Classics,Book 11)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Robert Arthur's Last Three Investigators Mystery	The Mystery of the Talking Skull is the last Three Investigators novel by Robert Arthur.  As such, I was a little hesitant to read it because Arthur's genius and talent created this series and made it into a staple of many young people's lives.  No one made reading as fun as Robert Arthur did for untold numbers of children over the last thirty-plus years.  Arthur's previous two entries in the series, the mysteries of the silver spider and the screaming clock, were brilliant and, in my opinion, his best, so I had high hopes for this book.  I must admit, however, that this book is somewhat flawed and is, to my mind, Arthur's most disappointing 3I story.  Let me make clear, though, that Arthur's worst is many times better than almost everyone else's best.  This is a ripping good story and is well worth a read, despite the flaws I perceive in it.<br />In terms of critiquing the story, I have to say that the last few chapters seemed somewhat rushed; the boys' actions, especially those of Jupiter Jones, seemed somewhat out of character, and the ultimate explanation of the mystery was not completely satisfactory to me.  While Jupiter is not always right, of course, his deductive and reasoning skills were not too sharply honed in this book. Early on, once he has the skull and has heard it sneeze, he is supposedly too drowsy after supper to set his mind to figuring out how the skull talks--this does not sound like the Jupe I have come to know.  Later on, he is actually &quot;suckered&quot; quite easily, much to my consternation and disbelief.  Were it not for unexpected outside help, the boys would have bungled this whole case.  In terms of the ending, the explanation of how the skull actually talked did not thrill me, and that is the primary reason I must give this book four stars rather than five.  That explanation was a little contrived and unoriginal, I felt.  Despite these faults, I did find several clues to be rather ingenious, and I experienced a few &quot;Aha&quot; moments of a quite satisfactory nature.<br />Sadly, as I write this review, this is the last Three Investigators book to have been recently reissued by Random House.  The reissue of the first eleven books in the series (including all ten of Arthur's 3I books) is of great importance because this action not only reintroduced me to the friends and heroes of my youth but introduced the Three Investigators to a whole new generation of young people; these books have  induced a love for reading in countless numbers of us all.  I would implore Random House to continue reissuing these books until the complete 3I library is readily available to one and all--how these books ever went out of print is a mystery not even the great Jupiter Jones could solve.  As for me, I have my own case to work on now, an undertaking that will not be completed until I have assembled a complete collection of the Three Investigators series.oments of a quite satisfactory nature.<br />Sadly, as I write this review, this is the last Three Investigators book to have been recently reissued by Random House.  The reissue of the first eleven books in the series (including all ten of Arthur's 3I books) is of great importance because this action not only reintroduced me to the friends and heroes of my youth but introduced the Three Investigators to a whole new generation of young people; these books have  induced a love for reading in countless numbers of us all.  I would implore Random House to continue reissuing these books until the complete 3I library is readily available to one and all--how these books ever went out of print is a mystery not even the great Jupiter Jones could solve.  As for me, I have my own case to work on now, an undertaking that will not be completed until I have assembled a complete collection of the Three Investigators series.	2001-09-02
1858021:US	53016962	R3GSQC12QMY550	0893671789	810527544	Basic Beliefs: An Introduction Guide to Christian Theology	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Basics of Christian Beliefs	Although this book is several decades old now, it is still a useful guide to Christian life. The author does a good job of discussing several specific issues the church and the Christian need to address; while he does not go into detail about any of these issues, he does say enough to cover each topic pretty well. As the subtitle says, this is an introductory guide to Christian theology (not &quot;introduction guide&quot; as this listing shows); it has the feel of a primer or textbook. In fact, each chapter ends with a set of questions drawn from the material just covered--I myself don't feel these questions are that useful, and I imagine most readers will just skip right over them. Early on, DeMaray tries to prove that God exists; while I do not argue with his conclusion, I did find the kinds of logical arguments he uses to make his case pretty weak (i.e., if the world exists, God exists; if sin exists, God exists, etc.). Since faith in God is a prerequisite for Christianity, I feel he could have just skipped over the philosophically impossible task of proving God exists. I was particularly interested in reading the author's opinion concerning several key sacraments and other issues, particularly baptism. As a Southern Baptist who believes in believer's baptism by immersion, I thought the author might present this belief in a negative light. However, I found that the author does a very good job of addressing the differing beliefs among all Christian denominations on this and every other topic (with the exception of the Catholic belief in purgatory, which he does criticize to some degree). Moreover, he goes out of his way to express the thought that faith is much more important than the form in which that faith is expressed.	2001-08-29
1858334:US	53016962	R1CHFVUL3EOTGP	0679811729	820189229	Alfred Hitchcock and The Three Investigators, No. 10: The Mystery of the Moaning Cave	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Shaky start but strong finish	First and foremost, it must be said that William Arden is not Robert Arthur, and that is a pretty severe handicap. Arden wrote a dozen Three Investigators books, even more than Arthur, but this first book has a few weaknesses, which is understandable. The book starts out somewhat slowly. The author seems to be a little wordy, particularly in his descriptions of things, early on, and this makes the pace and rhythm of the story a little choppy in places. As the story progresses, there also seem to be a few events and characters who don't seem to belong in this story--Arden fits them in, but their appearances just seem weird to me. One character, who seems to be a bad guy but who ends up being a good guy, backs away from helping the boys in a dire situation, and the reasoning he later gives makes little sense to me. Having said all that, I must say that the story does pick up the pace about halfway through and becomes worthy of the Three Investigators milieu. I wasn't that wild about a lot of activity occurring in caves (having had my fill of caves in The Mystery of the Green Ghost), but the nature and inherent danger of the caves does contribute to the suspense of the tale. Arden proves that he has come to know our trio very well when he has Jupiter alone solve the final piece of the puzzle, to the amazement of the adults involved. All in all, this is a satisfying, interesting story and hopefully a harbinger of good things to come in Arden's later contributions to the Three Investigators series.	2001-08-29
1862395:US	53016962	R23ANCWC69UJIO	0679821732	771579806	The Mystery of the Screaming Clock (The Three Investigators No. 9)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Holmesian Triumph	I am going back and re-reading these books that I loved as a boy, and I called the eighth book in the series, The Mystery of the Silver Spider, the quintessential Three Investigators book. However, The Mystery of the Screaming Clock is in many ways even better. While Silver Spider was full of great action, this book is more cerebral and intellectually stimulating. In terms of pure logic, deductive reasoning, and plain old &quot;smarts,&quot; this book is masterful--the puzzles left by the mysterious Mr. Clock would challenge even the great Sherlock Holmes. Oh, how I would love to have been (or be now) Jupiter Jones. This whole mystery starts when Jupiter finds a screaming clock in the salvage yard and sets out, as a pure intellectual challenge, to find out who made this clock scream and why. Quickly, the boys are involved in a far-reaching mystery involving stolen paintings, an innocent man framed and imprisoned for the theft, an entire room of screaming clocks, dangerous thugs, and the singular international art thief Hugenay, first encountered in The Mystery of the Stuttering Parrot. I wanted to try and figure out the coded messages myself, to see if I could match the wits of Jupe, but the book was just too interesting for me to put down long enough to test my own deductive skills. On a final note, this book contains the funniest line of the series so far when Jupiter finally gives in to Pete's needling to stop using so many big words and says, &quot;Like, it blows my mind to the outer reaches of our galaxy.&quot;	2001-08-26
1862742:US	53016962	R3J5UE1YIW6AOW	0664246141	562399900	3: Making Christian Sense (Spirituality and the Christian Life)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Worthwhile Book for Christians	While this is a worthwhile read, I must admit that much of what the author said did not stick with me for very long. Thus, this is a hard book for me to review. I certainly want to point out that this book is not overly &quot;preachy.&quot; It is a book written for Christians rather than sinners. While the author concentrates on the subject of one's developing a proper Christian life, his approach is as philosophical as it is religious, and this makes it a little &quot;drier&quot; than an evangelical book aimed directly at spreading the gospel to unbelievers. There are five topics which the author addresses: &quot;Making Sense of Our Lives,&quot; &quot;Making Sense Emotionally,&quot; &quot;Making Sense Morally,&quot; &quot;Making Sense With the Will,&quot; and &quot;Making Sense With One's Thoughts.&quot; Each chapter is narrower in focus to coincide with one's progression in the faith. Holmer begins by asserting that you cannot make sense of your life or be happy without attaining salvation. He particularly addresses the important and widespread problems of depression, inadequacy, a sense of failure, hopelessness, etc., arguing that faith in God will allow you to overcome such things. While the acceptance of Christ is the crucial task in making sense of your life, Holmer goes to great pains to urge Christians to continue to grow in their faith. Salvation is just the beginning. The author describes how a Christian can and should develop new emotions, new values, new virtues, and, in doing so, a new viewpoint on life; as he grows in his faith, his sense of worth and joy will increase and he will play a larger role in God's plan for mankind.	2001-08-26
1868378:US	53016962	R2WXECDX64LS3X	0394864085	932475666	The Mystery of the Silver Spider (Three Investigators Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Quintessential Three Investigators Mystery	The Mystery of the Silver Spider is in many ways the quintessential Three Investigators book in my mind, mainly because this title stands out the most from my childhood memories.  It really is a good, exciting story, full of political intrigue, international espionage, a dastardly conspiracy, very real danger, a mad flight to safety, and other thrills along the way.  After a chance meeting with the young prince of Varania, the boys find themselves invited to the prince's coronation in his home country.  They are ostensibly contracted by the U.S. government to serve as secret junior agents--while the feds know some type of trouble is brewing in the small yet important European nation, they have been unable to ferret out the information they need themselves and thus turn to our intrepid young heroes for help.  Once in Varania, the prince confides in them the fact that the invaluable silver spider, the symbol of Prince Paul, the most important leader in their history, and the symbol of the very nation, has been stolen and replaced with a fake; without the true silver spider, the prince will be disgraced and his coronation will be postponed--perhaps permanently.  Much to the boys' surprise, Bob finds the precious spider stashed among his handkerchiefs.  Realizing that the evil plotters mean to blame them--the young prince's friends--for the theft, Jupe, Pete, and Bob are forced to make a run for safety; fortunately, they are aided by some Varanians loyal to the young prince.  Poor Bob bangs his head during the escape and cannot remember where he stashed the real spider.  As events build to a climax, the boys race to free themselves from capture and somehow alert the Varanian people to the prince's danger.  With Bob still suffering partial amnesia, it is up to Jupiter to find the silver spider and thus save not only the prince but the entire nation of Varania.<br />This one is action-packed from front to back and may well be the best book in the series.  If you have not yet been introduced to the Three Investigators and are wondering which book to try reading first, I would recommend this book.  You might as well buy the other available titles, though, because you are surely going to want to keep reading these adventures.  For the life of me, I can't figure out why there has never been a Three Investigators movie--this story in particular would be terrific on the big screen.yet been introduced to the Three Investigators and are wondering which book to try reading first, I would recommend this book.  You might as well buy the other available titles, though, because you are surely going to want to keep reading these adventures.  For the life of me, I can't figure out why there has never been a Three Investigators movie--this story in particular would be terrific on the big screen.	2001-08-21
1872199:US	53016962	R7MEXJ22C6D79	0394864077	932475666	The Mystery of the Fiery Eye (Three Investigators Classics, Book 7)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One Puzzler After Another	In yet another of a series of rip-roaring puzzlers from the mind of Robert Arthur, we now see Jupe and the Three Investigators triumph over a secretly coded message and a cast of assorted bad guys to solve yet another case.  The puzzle of the coded message sent to August August (yes, that's his name) by his great-uncle proves to be even more perplexing than it at first appears.  The boys seemingly solve the mystery several times, only to be rewarded each of those times with yet another clue to the location of that which they seek, namely a brilliant, long-lost, cursed ruby.  Racing them to the prize are a mysterious man from India and a gang of rather foolish tough guys running around with fake black mustaches.  I really admired how Arthur brought everything together at the end of the book, incorporating several small details I had dismissed as tangential at the beginning of the tale.  As usual, you will find a chapter named &quot;Trapped!&quot; in the book, but, as is also quite usual, the boys find a way out of danger and prove that criminals are no match for the brains of Jupiter Jones and the steadfastness of his intrepid companions.  This isn't quite as good as some of the earlier books in the series, but it is certainly an enjoyable story; also, it makes you think.  Try putting the book down as you approach the final chapters, after all of the clues are known to you, and see if you can solve the mystery along with our heroes.	2001-08-18
1874131:US	53016962	R3ZVM51MPHYOO	0380726912	87624192	Conspiracy of Silence	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good information in a repetitive style	Any work by Kevin Randle is an important and worthwhile read.  I like and respect him highly because his main focus is the truth about the UFO phenomenon, and he is not afraid to make unpopular stands or go against the views of his fellow researchers.  With a background in two branches of the armed services, including intelligence work, Randle is uniquely qualified to study the government's involvement in UFO activity.  He is a meticulous researcher, always determined to get answers from others in a manner which cannot be questioned by critics.  Conspiracy of Silence does not include any newly discovered bombshells, but it does give an excellent overview of the government's supposed role in UFO research and offers reasonable speculation as to the motives of our defense forces and intelligence communities in covering up the truth about extraterrestrials.  He does discuss new information about the Roswell incident, showing himself more than willing to entertain any new facts and to amend his own theories in light of new, credible information.  He always tries to provide the highly important provenance for information he has learned or received--he wants others to be able to do the research themselves and make their own judgments on that basis.  He does not expect his readers to take everything he says as the truth.<br />The most compelling part of the book deals with the internal squabblings among researchers in the UFO community, arguing that such internal discord only serves to cripple or restrain our professed goal of learning the truth.  When researchers are castigating each other as liars and cheats, the result is the discredit of Ufology among the masses; thus, Ufologists are debunking themselves.  Part of this message is obviously inspired by the attacks heaped upon Randle himself in recent years.  To a degree, he ends up criticizing his critics in the UFO community, the very thing he warns against doing, but I feel his words are valid and effective because he is merely answering those critics and goes to great pains to back up and verify everything he is saying in his responses.  Differences of opinion must be espoused and debated objectively in order for us to penetrate the conspiracy of silence Randle describes in this book.  He is doing that, and in so doing making the field stronger and more credible.<br />I have two criticisms of the work.  For one, I feel as if Randle relies too heavily on Edward J. Ruppelt as a source for his early post-war discussion of the government's involvement in UFOs.  Secondly, Randle's style of writing can be somewhat annoying in that he continually seems to repeat himself.  He can say something clearly in two pages and then spend ten pages saying the same thing again and again.  I also felt his footnotes were a hindrance.  Although he does provide a large, helpful bibliography of sources, his footnotes are rather sparse and often do not refer to a source at all.  On a couple of occasions, he would employ a footnote to make a small point, and then the next sentence in the text would say the very same thing the footnote did.  All in all, though, Randle is the type of investigator the UFO community needs.  He continues to provide valuable information to us, and he presents that information in such a way as to keep the pressure on the government to come clean eventually.is merely answering those critics and goes to great pains to back up and verify everything he is saying in his responses.  Differences of opinion must be espoused and debated objectively in order for us to penetrate the conspiracy of silence Randle describes in this book.  He is doing that, and in so doing making the field stronger and more credible.<br />I have two criticisms of the work.  For one, I feel as if Randle relies too heavily on Edward J. Ruppelt as a source for his early post-war discussion of the government's involvement in UFOs.  Secondly, Randle's style of writing can be somewhat annoying in that he continually seems to repeat himself.  He can say something clearly in two pages and then spend ten pages saying the same thing again and again.  I also felt his footnotes were a hindrance.  Although he does provide a large, helpful bibliography of sources, his footnotes are rather sparse and often do not refer to a source at all.  On a couple of occasions, he would employ a footnote to make a small point, and then the next sentence in the text would say the very same thing the footnote did.  All in all, though, Randle is the type of investigator the UFO community needs.  He continues to provide valuable information to us, and he presents that information in such a way as to keep the pressure on the government to come clean eventually.	2001-08-17
1879059:US	53016962	R1USY7EBM65TVX	084993575X	395809716	30 Days to Understanding the Bible (The "30 Days" Series)	Books	3	16	30	N	N	Only useful to those with no Bible knowledge whatsoever	Frankly, I was disappointed by this book.  Having been raised as a Southern Baptist, I found myself thinking more about the people and matters the author left out of the book than the material he included.  Naturally, it is quite difficult to cover the entire Bible in one normal-sized book, but I found this work to be overly simplistic and lacking in its overall presentation of the true meaning of the Bible and Christianity.  The author devotes the first two-thirds or so of the book to a presentation of the geography and history of Biblical times, coupled with a quick summation of the poetical, prophetic, and instructional books.  Having completed that task, he ends by summing up eight basic principles of the Bible.  I had expected to find the real meat of the book in this last section, but I found it sorely wanting in terms of its exposition of Christian doctrine and guidelines.  The real meaning of Jesus' life never really emerged from the pages, and the importance of faith, while addressed, was not stressed or explained as much as I would have liked or expected it to be.<br />Certainly, the author's motives are noble, but his desire to make this book accessible to anyone and everyone results in a dry presentation that is not very compelling.  This book would be most useful to persons without any kind of religious background, but I fear that it will not bring real understanding to most of its readers, nor do I think it will convince many sinners to seek God.  Anyone brought up as a church-goer in a Christian denomination will learn nothing he/she didn't already learn in Sunday School as a child.	2001-08-13
1880265:US	53016962	R2YE8O3SZCWK1B	0394864069	980596153	The Secret of Skeleton Island (Three Investigators Classics, No. 6)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ghosts, Pirates, and Treasure--Oh Boy!	In this adventure, the Three Investigators venture far away from Rocky Beach, California--3000 miles away to a haunted island on the east coast where Pete's father is working to restore an old thrill park for a movie he is working on.  Having met with stolen equipment and the appearance of a ghost, the boys are sent for to figure out who is trying to keep the movie company away from Skeleton Island.  The boys meet with danger and duplicity at every turn, it seems, getting themselves into even more trouble than usual--several times by their own doing.  ...<br />There aren't really any plot twists or surprises in this story.  What seems to me to be the biggest clue to the whole mystery flops out at you like a dead fish right in the middle of the book, and you have to wait until the end to see Jupiter finally seize upon it.  Overall, though, it is still a pretty good story.  It's hard to go wrong when you are writing about pirates, ghosts, and treasure.  My childhood obsession with the secret headquarters at the Salvage Yard obviously continues because I certainly missed it in this book.  The boys seemed to be somewhat out of their element here, and it shows.  Of course, nothing can stop them from solving a mystery once they are on the case.	2001-08-13
1882491:US	53016962	R2JJCVYPJCP7BW	0394864050	997941975	The Three Investigators in The Mystery of the Vanishing Treasure (The Three Investigators, No. 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good but not Arthur's best	While this is far from a bad book, it does fall short of the standard Robert Arthur established in the first four books of this series.  The story line was rather loosely put together and failed to merge the two sub-plots to my satisfaction.  Honestly, even though I am quite open-minded about the paranormal and such matters, a story centered around &quot;gnomes&quot; begins life with some disadvantages.  Be that as it may, it may well be that young readers would be attracted most by the things my adult mind shied away from--after all, what kid doesn't like to read about gnomes?  As for the &quot;vanishing treasure&quot; at the heart of this mystery, the means by which it was stolen seemed a little far-fetched to me.  As for the investigation, the boys sort of stumble through it.  While I guess it is important to show Jupiter Jones as human after all, I frankly don't like seeing the youthful genius miscalculate and overlook clues.  Jupe's a little slow in this book, but he fortunately does make up for his mistakes in the end.  Finally, while the boys do figure a lot of things out (eventually), the sad fact is that luck, even more so than in the previous books, basically saves them from disaster.  Success often depends on luck as well as skill, but the boys just seemed a little too lucky this time.<br />All in all, it is certainly an enjoyable story.  If you've never read a Three Investigators book, I wouldn't start with this one, but I would certainly give it a place on my bookshelf and make a point of reading it after gaining a satisfactory introduction to the young sleuths elsewhere.  I personally am reading all of these great books from my childhood in order of publication.	2001-08-11
1886900:US	53016962	R1NEQZ0JG840NP	0394864042	538237653	The Mystery of the Green Ghost (Three Investigators Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Harrowing Adventure	While I did not find this story quite as satisfying as the previous three books in the Three Investigators series, it featured some of the most compelling scenes thus far.  The chapters describing the boys' dangerous flight through a maze of old mines and caves had me squirming in my seat.  Being a claustrophobic-type person, I found Arthur's descriptions of the tight squeezes through spaces barely large enough for a youngster to be quite harrowing and intense.  That part of the story really &quot;made&quot; this book for me.  While the mystery of the green ghost is fascinating and interesting, I just did not find the conclusion to be 100% believable, although it is certainly adequate and in step with the details of the case.  The plot itself basically has two story lines converging into one; while there was some danger of the two story lines not intersecting properly at times, Arthur managed to overcome these potential pitfalls and keep the plot on an even keel.  It may be that a youngster reading this book (or having it read to him/her) might get a little confused as the story begins wrapping up, but I don't think such confusion would detract from his/her enjoyment of the book.  As I said, the description of the mines was just intense and should produce some pretty wide-opened eyes in youngsters (and adults) following the action.  Any parent reading this book to a child should certainly anticipate some &quot;just one more chapter&quot; and &quot;can you leave the light on?&quot; remarks around bedtime.	2001-08-08
1887513:US	53016962	R18YI3KC5XPTU5	0394864034	538237653	The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy (Three Investigators #3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another baffling, highly enjoyable mystery	The Three Investigators do it again, solving their strangest mystery thus far.  This case involves a 3000-year-old mummy that mysteriously whispers in some archaic tongue to one professor alone.  The boys overcome a number of hurdles set in their way, some involving great personal danger to themselves, to solve this perplexing mystery and, at the same time, return an unusual Abyssinian cat to his loving owner.  As the series continues, we learn more and more about the boys themselves and their secret headquarters, see them employing more gadgets in their work, and see the logical gymnastics Jupiter Jones continually performs to find resolutions to case after case.  There is more deductive reasoning exhibited in this case than in the trio's previous two adventures, and that only serves to further draw the reader into the world of Rocky Beach, California.  As I continue to re-read these classic stories from my youth, my appreciation for the writing of Robert Arthur grows more and more.  I was indeed pleased to see that my suspicions in this case proved correct in the end; even had I been wrong, I would not have been embarrassed because Arthur's tight plot works on two levels--that of young readers, who can certainly follow the case with understanding and eager anticipation for each upcoming chapter, as well as that of adults.  This is a great mystery story in all regards.	2001-08-07
1890917:US	53016962	R2415QX31UYNE	0679811710	503249030	The Mystery of the Stuttering Parrot (The Three Investigators No. 2)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Classic Three Investigators Mystery	In this second book about the Three Investigators, Robert Arthur has exceeded the achievements of the first.  Whereas The Secret of Terror Castle detailed the boys' attempt to prove their investigative powers, The Mystery of the Stuttering Parrot relates the story of the boys' first real case.  Having been charged with finding a missing parrot, they soon find themselves intimately involved in a search for a valuable work of art.  The story is much fuller and more satisfying than that of the first book.  Here we see the case evolve from a seemingly simple, far from dangerous search for a missing pet to an expanded search for seven mysterious parrots (the significance of which are not at first apparent) and finally to a race against an international art thief to acquire a lost masterpiece.  Along the way, they face mysterious foreigners working against them, make sense of an enigmatic coded message, and ultimately triumph (albeit somewhat by accident).  Admirably, they also go out of their way to generously help a young Mexican immigrant and his uncle establish a more comfortable life for themselves.<br />This is the Three Investigators at their finest.  The mental acumen of Jupiter Jones is put to the test, and once again his mental prowess proves up to the task.  For an adult such as myself, some of the obvious clues are not picked up on in as timely a fashion as I would expect, but one must remember that even Jupiter Jones, genius that he is, is only a lad.  This book is an unqualified success, eminently enjoyable to both young and old alike.  I feel just as I felt twenty years ago upon first reading these books--anxious to read about the boys' next case.	2001-08-05
1892684:US	53016962	R2NSWTV2GQ1ARM	0679811761	269074457	The Secret of Terror Castle (The Three Investigators #1)	Books	5	95	95	N	N	Hello to Old Friends	All of the Three Investigators books are much more than children's books.  Reading this book brought back all kinds of memories from my childhood years, and I enjoyed it almost as much now as I did twenty years ago.  The biggest danger of adulthood is forgetting your childhood, and I am somewhat surprised to realize that I have forgotten as much as I have already.  How could I have forgotten Jupiter Jones?  When I was young, I wanted to be Jupe--the brains, the adventurous spirit, the dauntless courage, the determination and drive to know everything.  He was my hero.  I dreamed of having my own secret headquarters, with all of those great hidden entrances.  I should add here that I was a nerd, and that accounts for some of the admiration I had for the stocky sleuth.  Maybe athletes by nature aren't as drawn to these boys as I was, but I always felt as if I knew these guys.  Pete Crenshaw and Bob Andrews are great all-American guys in their own right. All three are very different individuals, but together they do form a powerful team and serve as a wonderful model of the power of friendship.  The only thing I can't figure out is why Bob spends so much time working at the library.  At one point in this book, he has the task of reorganizing the whole catalogue--I work at a library now, so I know this is a pretty big task to be assigning to a kid.<br />This book, while eminently readable by youngsters, is more than satisfying to me as an adult.  The story is suspenseful and well-contrived.  Robert Arthur does a masterful job of allowing the reader to &quot;investigate&quot; the mystery along with the Three Investigators.  The boys come across as extraordinary but very real.  I can't imagine any youngster, girl or boy, who would not be drawn in to these adventures, and I can think of no better way to introduce a child to the enjoyment of reading than to give him/her one of these books.  The Secret of Terror Castle is the first one, so I would start with it.  If you are an adult who loved these books as a youngster, don't be afraid to pick this book up and reintroduce yourself to your old friends.  If you happen to be an adult who has never immersed himself in the world of the Three Investigators, do yourself a favor and pick one up--it may be about as close as you can come to recapturing the magic of your youth.<br />???n adult who loved these books as a youngster, don't be afraid to pick this book up and reintroduce yourself to your old friends.  If you happen to be an adult who has never immersed himself in the world of the Three Investigators, do yourself a favor and pick one up--it may be about as close as you can come to recapturing the magic of your youth.<br />???	2001-08-03
1897741:US	53016962	R2ZS17TZZFTZIU	0380726920	223279233	Project Moon Dust:: Beyond Roswell--exposing The Government's Covert Investigations And Cover-ups	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good information on UFOs and the government	One needs to be clear as to what this book is about.  Basically, it looks at the involvement (public as well as secretive) of the military with UFOs.  As such, it can be something of a protracted read at times.  When you are devoting a lot of attention to specific government documents, it is rather hard to breathe great excitement into the story.  Randle does not deal with abductions here, nor does he seek to describe possible alien races visiting the planet.  If you are looking for stories of abductions and of individuals' personal experiences with UFOs, you may well want to cross this book off your &quot;to buy&quot; list.<br />Randle attempts to give an overview of government involvement with UFOs since the mid-1940s, and he does a competent job of that.  The first half of the book describes the transition of government involvement from the development of Project Sign, through the Blue Book years, up to the present time.  He details the moves made by the military toward hiding their active investigation of a phenomenon they publicly state is not real.  Early on, when a project code name became compromised, the military would simply change the name of the project (e.g., from Sign to Grudge).  Over time, however, the military resorted to publicly pronouncing a project closed (such as Project Blue Book) while secretly transferring the responsibility for UFO investigations to an entirely different section.  It is in this manner that the 4602d Air Intelligence Service Squadron covertly usurped all &quot;serious&quot; UFO reports while passing on to Project Blue Book only those reports which were rather easily identifiable.  He does a good job of explaining the pre-ordained roles of the Condon Committee and Robertson Panel in promoting the government's disinformation campaign to discourage interest and belief in UFOs among citizens.  In the second half of the book, Randle takes a look at several important &quot;events&quot; over the years (e.g., Levelland, the Cash-Landry sighting, Bentwaters)--but only in terms of how they relate to the government's involvement in the investigations.  While this information is interesting, it provides little new information for readers reasonably well-grounded in the literature already.<br />The main problem with this book seems to be Randle's writing style.  While he does tend to repeat himself at times, in this book he seems to sometimes offer evidence which diminishes his own argument.  For example, he will stress the importance of reported sightings taking place before some event that generated a lot of interest and thus (debunkers argue) copycat reports, yet after describing these early reports he will tell us that they were mostly hoaxes or easily explainable.  Clearly, Randle is not a lawyer.  He is, however, a very important figure in the UFO community because of his straightforwardness.  He openly addresses some of the newer arguments against the Roswell UFO crash in an appendix, clearly expressing some disturbance by one new piece of evidence.  He treats such new information quite objectively.  If only many more UFOlogists could go about their work in such a manner, rather than resorting to grade school namecalling back and forth, we would be much closer to truly understanding UFOs.andry sighting, Bentwaters)--but only in terms of how they relate to the government's involvement in the investigations.  While this information is interesting, it provides little new information for readers reasonably well-grounded in the literature already.  <br />The main problem with this book seems to be Randle's writing style.  While he does tend to repeat himself at times, in this book he seems to sometimes offer evidence which diminishes his own argument.  For example, he will stress the importance of reported sightings taking place before some event that generated a lot of interest and thus (debunkers argue) copycat reports, yet after describing these early reports he will tell us that they were mostly hoaxes or easily explainable.  Clearly, Randle is not a lawyer.  He is, however, a very important figure in the UFO community because of his straightforwardness.  He openly addresses some of the newer arguments against the Roswell UFO crash in an appendix, clearly expressing some disturbance by one new piece of evidence.  He treats such new information quite objectively.  If only many more UFOlogists could go about their work in such a manner, rather than resorting to grade school namecalling back and forth, we would be much closer to truly understanding UFOs.	2001-07-31
1918048:US	53016962	RJR9EOG2UK1MU	0060955368	155619329	Alien Agenda: Investigating the Extraterrestrial Presence Among Us	Books	5	182	190	N	N	Excellent Overview of UFOlogy	Jim Marrs has produced an excellent overview of the UFO literature and history, from its possible origins in folk/fairy tales and biblical passages to its current manifestations in the form of crop circles, animal mutilations, and alien abductions.  Even though the author does believe that UFOs are &quot;real,&quot; I feel that he is very objective in his writing (which is rare for a journalist such as himself).  Although it may not be enough to satisfy the Philip Klasses of the world, he does present some of the evidence and criticisms of debunkers alongside the cases he refers to.  Naturally, despite the book's length, I found incidents and theories that I would like to have seen expounded further upon and which I would have included.  These are just my own personal feelings, of course, and I fully understand that no author of such an overview could include every thing I would want nor (I am sure) everything that even he wanted to include.  Even as someone fairly well-read in ufology, though, I must admit that there were several &quot;new&quot; events and ideas contained in the book that I had not seen nor considered before.  Anyone interested in UFOs would profit from this book, even those who still refuse to consider their existence.<br />The first chapter was particularly interesting to me and, I feel, somewhat brave on the part of  the author.  Basically, this chapter tosses up the concept of earth's moon being a spaceship.  I must say unequivocally that the author does not argue that this is the case, however.  While this is an interesting premise and should not be dismissed out of hand, I worry that some doubters out there will simply quit reading when they see such a &quot;preposterous&quot; notion in the very first chapter.  I would encourage anyone who does feel the impulse to toss the book aside at the very beginning to keep reading because your beliefs will either be challenged or reinforced by this book.<br />Finally, the book is very well documented in terms of the sources Jim Marrs consulted.  Not only is there a list of notes and references for each chapter, there is a pretty big bibliography at the end.  This is very important for works in this field because the author, if he is going to challenge the reader to consider the reality of UFOs, should feel it is his duty and requirement to point the reader to the locations of the facts as he gathered them, so that the reader--if he/she chooses--can consult those same works.  Alien Agenda is the type of book that ufologists need to produce because it strengthens the foundation of the entire literature and puts the pressure on debunkers to disprove each incident and idea one by one rather than ridicule and dismiss the entire field as a whole.ted in terms of the sources Jim Marrs consulted.  Not only is there a list of notes and references for each chapter, there is a pretty big bibliography at the end.  This is very important for works in this field because the author, if he is going to challenge the reader to consider the reality of UFOs, should feel it is his duty and requirement to point the reader to the locations of the facts as he gathered them, so that the reader--if he/she chooses--can consult those same works.  Alien Agenda is the type of book that ufologists need to produce because it strengthens the foundation of the entire literature and puts the pressure on debunkers to disprove each incident and idea one by one rather than ridicule and dismiss the entire field as a whole.	2001-07-15
1918409:US	53016962	R3TT0YPVCKP0BY	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	146	158	N	N	A Timeless Classic	It goes without saying that this book is a science fiction classic in every sense of the word and that H.G. Wells was a founding father of the genre.  This book proves that science fiction does not necessarily need to be heavily technical but does need to deal with grand themes such as the nature of society; man's hopes, dreams, and fears; and the very humanity of man.  Wells does not go to great lengths in describing the time machine nor how it works.  He lays the foundation of the story in science and then proceeds with his somewhat moralistic and certainly socially conscious story.  This makes his writing much more enjoyable than that of a Jules Verne, who liked to fill up pages with scientific and highly technical nomenclature.  One of the more striking aspects of the novel is Wells' treatment of the actual experience of time travel--moving in time is not like opening and walking through a door.  There are physical and emotional aspects of the time travel process--in fact, some of the most descriptive passages in the book are those describing what the Time Traveler experiences and sees during his time shifts.<br />Basically, Wells is posing the question of What will man be like in the distant future?  His answer is quite unlike any kind of scenario that modern readers, schooled on Star Wars, Star Trek, and the like, would come up with.  He gives birth to a simple and tragic society made up of the Eloi and the Morlocks.  In contrasting these two groups, he offers a critique of sorts of men in his own time.  Clearly, he is worried about the gap between the rich and the poor widening in his own world and is warning his readers of the dangers posed by such a growing rift.  It is most interesting to see how the Time Traveler's views of the future change over the course of his stay there.  At first, he basically thinks that the Morlocks, stuck underground, have been forced to do all the work of man while the Eloi on the surface play and dance around in perpetual leisure.  Later, he realizes that the truth is more complicated than that.  The whole book seems to be a warning against scientific omniscience and communal living.  The future human society that the Time Traveler finds is supposedly ideal--free of disease, wars, discrimination, intensive labor, poverty, etc.  However, the great works of man have been lost--architectural, scientific, philosophical, literary, etc.--and human beings have basically become children, each one dressing, looking, and acting the same.  The time traveler opines that the loss of conflict and change that came in the wake of society's elimination of health, political,  and social issues served to stagnate mankind.  Without conflict, there is no achievement, and mankind atrophies both mentally and physically.<br />This basic message of the novel is more than applicable today.  While it is paramount that we continue to research and discover new scientific facts about ourselves and the world, we must not come to view science as a religion that can ultimately recreate the earth as an immense garden of Eden.  Knowledge itself is far less important than the healthy pursuit of that knowledge.  Man's greatness lies in his ability to adapt to unforeseen circumstances.  Speaking only for myself, I think this novel points out the dangerousness of Communism and points to the importance of individualism--if you engineer a society in which every person is &quot;the same&quot; and &quot;equal,&quot; then you have doomed that society.re.  Later, he realizes that the truth is more complicated than that.  The whole book seems to be a warning against scientific omniscience and communal living.  The future human society that the Time Traveler finds is supposedly ideal--free of disease, wars, discrimination, intensive labor, poverty, etc.  However, the great works of man have been lost--architectural, scientific, philosophical, literary, etc.--and human beings have basically become children, each one dressing, looking, and acting the same.  The time traveler opines that the loss of conflict and change that came in the wake of society's elimination of health, political,  and social issues served to stagnate mankind.  Without conflict, there is no achievement, and mankind atrophies both mentally and physically.<br />This basic message of the novel is more than applicable today.  While it is paramount that we continue to research and discover new scientific facts about ourselves and the world, we must not come to view science as a religion that can ultimately recreate the earth as an immense garden of Eden.  Knowledge itself is far less important than the healthy pursuit of that knowledge.  Man's greatness lies in his ability to adapt to unforeseen circumstances.  Speaking only for myself, I think this novel points out the dangerousness of Communism and points to the importance of individualism--if you engineer a society in which every person is &quot;the same&quot; and &quot;equal,&quot; then you have doomed that society.	2001-07-15
2031992:US	53016962	R2D20FAULASWVQ	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	34	40	N	N	Taste of This Blood	I don't think many people would argue the fact that 'Salem's Lot is the best novel produced in King's &quot;early period.&quot;  In some ways, it was a gutsy novel for King to write.  For one thing, his editor warned him about becoming viewed as a &quot;horror writer&quot; (as opposed to a &quot;real writer&quot;).  All great writers write what they have to write and don't care how it is viewed, so this book really made a statement that this young author loved to write and was going to do it his own way.  For another thing, it is a great challenge to write a vampire novel that does not just sift through the ashes of millions of pages already consumed by the public.  I wish I could read this book today without knowing so much about it (having first read it many years ago, having seen the miniseries, and having heard and read so much about it since then)--I wonder at what point the wide-eyed reader actually understands that vampirism is responsible for the Evil overtaking Jerusalem's Lot.<br />Literally hundreds of readers have already reviewed this book, so I am sure anything I say is just a rehash of what has already been said.  I will mention the fact that this novel is quite different from Carrie, its immediate predecessor.  Where the events of that book were somewhat disjointed, this story unfolds quite smoothly.  The characters in this book are much more &quot;real&quot; than those in Carrie.  Rather than jumping from one viewpoint to another, King's prose now allows itself to take root and grow, yielding a bumper crop of complex, realistic, knowable characters.  While I felt as if I were watching the events taking place in Carrie, I felt much more like a character myself in 'Salem's Lot.  If anyone out there has yet to read Stephen King, I would recommend reading this novel as your introduction to his work.  The blood and gore is there, as it should be, but most of the horror is below the surface, always present and ready to spring out whenever King's imagination bids it to do so.  It is a wonderful reading experience.  I can picture Stephen King saying to his readers the exact same thing that the vampire says to Father Callahan: &quot;Taste my communion.&quot;  Millions of us have tasted it, and we have been held under the sway of our master ever since.tion bids it to do so.  It is a wonderful reading experience.  I can picture Stephen King saying to his readers the exact same thing that the vampire says to Father Callahan: &quot;Taste my communion.&quot;  Millions of us have tasted it, and we have been held under the sway of our master ever since.	2001-04-16
2038391:US	53016962	RL4HAM4UQCOKZ	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	5	80	88	N	N	This is where it all began	As with virtually everything Stephen King has written, this is enjoyable reading.  It is also a quick-read for anyone who is intimidated by the length of some of the author's later works.  I think the basic premise of this story appeals to many people because Carrie is, in many ways, the ultimate underdog, a girl terrorized by an insanely religious mother, victimized and persecuted by her peers, and alienated from the world around her.  Everyone in life has been a victim or a bully, and I think the story of Carrie White does impart an important lesson to the folks out there who are treating someone they know the way that Carrie's classmates treated her.  For those of us more sympathetic to Carrie's plight--the high school &quot;outcasts,&quot; the &quot;poor,&quot; the unpopular, the nerds, etc.--the story really matters here.  Many of us daydream about the revenge we will exact from those kids who made fun of us all those years ago, and Carrie White shows us that revenge is not all it is cracked up to be.  Carrie's &quot;triumph&quot; costs many innocent people their lives, and it doesn't really do a whole lot of good for Carrie herself.<br />You don't need me to tell you why you should read or re-read this book.  This is Stephen King.  By this point in time, unless you are just coming of age, you have already read this book if you are one of King's legions of fans or even if you were ever curious about this man's phenomenal success.  Even more of you have probably seen the movie.  While the movie was pretty faithful to the book, not even the magic of cinema can convey the true weight and atmosphere of this (or any other) book.  Carrie is also King's first published novel.  This is very important to would-be writers--clearly, King was still learning his craft when he wrote this novel, and thus the process of reading it provides any potential writer with a great learning experience.  The format here is significantly different from King's more mature work.  The story is told through several &quot;voices,&quot; including a third-person account from a &quot;survivor,&quot; extracts from research articles and newspaper items based on the events, as well as a more traditional author's voice.  Thus, we get several perspectives on the characters and events.  The story is not as fluid as it might be because we switch from one viewpoint to another as the tale unfolds.  While I much prefer the style of King's later works, especially in terms of getting inside a character, King still infuses Carrie's world with realism and believability, proving that he can create masterful atmosphere and mood with any number of literary tools.is told through several &quot;voices,&quot; including a third-person account from a &quot;survivor,&quot; extracts from research articles and newspaper items based on the events, as well as a more traditional author's voice.  Thus, we get several perspectives on the characters and events.  The story is not as fluid as it might be because we switch from one viewpoint to another as the tale unfolds.  While I much prefer the style of King's later works, especially in terms of getting inside a character, King still infuses Carrie's world with realism and believability, proving that he can create masterful atmosphere and mood with any number of literary tools.	2001-04-10
2048259:US	53016962	R16WOEOALCRGQ4	0060975504	351682093	When Nietzsche Wept: A Novel of Obsession	Books	5	115	120	N	Y	Intellectually Challenging and Personally Meaningful	This is one of the most intellectually stimulating, personally relevant, important books I have ever read.  What a rare treat Yalom has given the world.  That being said, this book may not be for everyone (but what is?).  In many ways, I feel as if this novel was written just for me, and I feel sure that many other readers likewise come away feeling the book was written especially for them.  Do you have to know Nietzsche in order to enjoy this book?  You do not, but it will certainly appeal to you more if you do.  I approached this book purely as a Nietzsche admirer, and I worried that my favorite philosopher might be portrayed poorly or unacceptably in its pages.  In fact, he was not.  No one can say whether this fictional treatment of Nietzsche is a true depiction of this great man, but it really does not matter.  The importance of this book comes not through the descriptions of its characters, but from the meaning you as an individual take from its themes.  These themes are grand and universal, the themes that Nietzsche addressed in his factual life--the meaning of life, fear of aging and death, each person's place in society, and both aloneness and loneliness.  Everyone knows these themes, the emotions they stir up, the doubts they employ as daily hurdles on the living of one's life, the truly cosmic loneliness that each individual knows and combats at some point or points in his/her life.  Not everyone can face these challenges or even acknowledge them; those who cannot will do well to stay away from this book.<br />What a joy it is to read a truly intellectually challenging work in these modern times.  Don't read this book to be entertained.  Read this book to seek understanding of life and your place in it.  I cannot stress enough how personal the message of this book seems to be.  In the final pages, Nietzsche revealed to Dr. Breuer his one great fear, and that fear was my own great fear, expressed in words that described it better than I ever could.  I had to put the book down momentarily and just say &quot;My God . . .&quot;  That gave this book incredible meaning for me.  I should say that I did not come away overjoyed or overly burdened from the experience of finishing the book, but I certainly came away more in tune with my own thoughts and my own philosophy, challenged to remain steadfast in my own intellectual thoughts and pursuits, and buoyed (yet not elated) to know that at least one other person on earth has knowledge of the intellectual and emotional struggles that I sometimes resigned myself to believe were solely my own.<br />Please, do not start reading this book unless and until you are ready to devote yourself to it and to yourself.  The first few chapters are not gripping and do not really offer a visionary glimpse of the meaning and magic of the book.  The early conversations, particularly between Nietzsche and Breuer, are sometimes rather stilted and &quot;phony.&quot;  Do not be discouraged in the early stages of the read because intellectual stimulation and personal challenge await you soon thereafter, and I believe that you will find yourself hard pressed to stop reading until the very end.  More importantly, the book will remain with you even after you have placed it back on the shelf.  That is the greatest praise that a novel can be given.to put the book down momentarily and just say &quot;My God . . .&quot;  That gave this book incredible meaning for me.  I should say that I did not come away overjoyed or overly burdened from the experience of finishing the book, but I certainly came away more in tune with my own thoughts and my own philosophy, challenged to remain steadfast in my own intellectual thoughts and pursuits, and buoyed (yet not elated) to know that at least one other person on earth has knowledge of the intellectual and emotional struggles that I sometimes resigned myself to believe were solely my own.<br />Please, do not start reading this book unless and until you are ready to devote yourself to it and to yourself.  The first few chapters are not gripping and do not really offer a visionary glimpse of the meaning and magic of the book.  The early conversations, particularly between Nietzsche and Breuer, are sometimes rather stilted and &quot;phony.&quot;  Do not be discouraged in the early stages of the read because intellectual stimulation and personal challenge await you soon thereafter, and I believe that you will find yourself hard pressed to stop reading until the very end.  More importantly, the book will remain with you even after you have placed it back on the shelf.  That is the greatest praise that a novel can be given.	2001-04-01
2056196:US	53016962	R1IMZZCHDA6CII	0440236479	929829303	Dark Object: The World's Only Government-Documented UFO Crash	Books	2	47	51	N	Y	Not Enough Evidence to Justify a Book	I remember seeing the Sightings segment about the Shag Harbor incident several years ago; it was an interesting story, much more interesting than this book.  The first thing I noticed when I received this book was that it was short--really only 162 pages.  Unfortunately, the authors' story could have been told in less than 100 pages.  I don't mean to be too critical here; I accept the fact that something unusual went down in Shag Harbor in October 1967, but there just isn't enough here to justify a book.  I don't even know what the authors believe really happened; they seem to jump around from one possibility to another.  The end result is a confused, rambling tale based on notions and impressions and possibilities.  This information belongs on a web site, but not in a book--not yet, at least.  The statement that this is &quot;the world's only government-documented UFO crash&quot; is quite an overstatement.  There are four photocopies of official documents in an appendix, and these basically just prove that some people called the Mountie police and they investigated the report.  Not exactly a smoking gun.  When describing their search for documentation, the authors twice state that most researchers would give up the whole search after being rebuffed by any single government agency--I just find that hilarious.  So many UFO researchers have fought and clawed for every piece of possible documentation they can find, sometimes in the face of government &quot;pressure&quot; or outright threats; it is almost insulting for these authors to portray themselves as uncommonly vigilent searchers after the truth.<br />This subject deserves much more research and work in order to justify a book about it.  There is just no evidence here.  The story as it exists now is far too dependent on eyewitness statements (most of them made decades after the event itself).  I appreciate the scientific work done exploring the waters of Shag Harbor, but that search turned up nothing.  Admittedly, they were unable to check out a site they were very interested in, but that site remains meaningless until such time as the search can be undertaken.  The final chapter sums up the book well--a new witness said so-and-so, another said that he could not tell them what he really knows, etc.  All of this hearsay evidence is unsatisfying to the reader.  I hope that someday a complete and factual book can be written on Shag Harbor--this offering is not that book.ly, they were unable to check out a site they were very interested in, but that site remains meaningless until such time as the search can be undertaken.  The final chapter sums up the book well--a new witness said so-and-so, another said that he could not tell them what he really knows, etc.  All of this hearsay evidence is unsatisfying to the reader.  I hope that someday a complete and factual book can be written on Shag Harbor--this offering is not that book.	2001-03-25
2062448:US	53016962	R1SKOXPTYMK55P	0440236444	634055809	The Fatima Secret (Whitley Strieber's Hidden Agendas)	Books	3	30	36	N	Y	Good but not explosive	Altogether, I found this to be a good but somewhat disappointing work.  Written after the Vatican's publication of the third secret of Fatima in 2000, the book jacket refers to the controversy and doubts that still linger and poses the question, &quot;What is the Vatican trying to hide?&quot;  Well, apparently, nothing.  I don't want to spoil the story for future readers of this book, but I must say I was somewhat surprised to learn that the author pretty much accepts the authenticity of the Vatican's recent announcement.  I am sure, though, that the more sensational references on the cover were the product of the publisher's marketing scheme and not that of the author.  I do not mean to say that the book promises something that it does not deliver.  Hesemann does give a fairly good description of the Fatima visions and provides a good background and assessment of the three prophecies.  For myself, there just wasn't as much in this book as I would have wished.  This is a very quick read, largely because the author, for the most part, does not go in to great detail.  As a result, the force of his story and the impact of his conclusions is weakened.  For example, I just cannot get overly enthusiastic about his contention that the efforts of Pope John Paul II (especially in terms of finally acceding to the Virgin Mary's 1917 request at Fatima to consecrate Russia) was largely responsible for the collapse of Communism.<br />Basically, this book is interesting and worth reading if you have some interest in the subject, but it is certainly not required reading for either New Age or Christian readers.  There's really not much to get excited about here for either side.  As an aside, I have to wonder what a Roman Catholic would think after reading this book--I've known one Catholic in my whole life , so the basic material of this book consists of concepts and traditions that I (coming from a Southern Baptist background) have little or no personal knowledge of.	2001-03-20
2070636:US	53016962	RT3IJUQR0XJV2	0786702761	975995627	The Complete History of Jack the Ripper	Books	5	173	174	N	Y	The Sacred Tome of Ripperology	Having read several books on Jack the Ripper, I can enthusiastically declare Sugden's volume the best of the lot, for a number of reasons.  First and foremost, this book is not about &quot;Jack the Ripper&quot; per se, but rather it is about the series of murders in Whitechapel and the ensuing investigation.  It is the author's stated goal to present the facts as clearly as can be gleaned from extant police files and press reports of the time (albeit, in the latter case, cautiously and only when information is not available in official form).  As other reviewers point out, Sugden is not trying to convince us that his own pet suspect is the Ripper.  Whereas most Ripper books begin with a conclusion and are written with the arbitary purpose of convincing us that the author has identified the Ripper, this book actually saves the conclusion to the end.  Even that conclusion, however, is not definitive.  The author does, in the end, tell us why a certain suspect seems to fit the facts better than other named suspects, but he clearly states that there is no definitive proof as to whether or not that suspect was Jack, and he by no means accuses the man of the crimes.  In the same vein, Sugden does not attack other writers in the field.  That being said, he does point out flaws and outright mistakes in others' thinking.  Even this, it must be said, is done in a noble fashion.  Sugden is very determined to dispel a number of myths that have wrongly influenced Ripperology for many years, and his contribution toward this end is the most important contribution he makes.  He goes to great lengths to not only point out false &quot;facts&quot; (such as the supposed pregnancy of Mary Kelly, for example, an idea that even Donald Rumbelow accepted when he wrote his Casebook) but to explain where these myths came from and why they were accepted by other writers.<br />Another wonderful thing about this book is Sugden's treatment of the victims.  I must admit that I have always viewed the victims with some detachment--this is surely a personal shortcoming on my part, but it is one that many people may share, especially given that the victims were prostitutes in Victorian London over a century ago.  In the pages of this book, though, these poor women actually become real and &quot;human.&quot;  I feel as if I knew them now, to at least a small degree, and, besides feeling pity and compassion for them, I have discovered that I actually liked a couple of them (especially Annie Camp).  These women were not just poor &quot;prostitutes.&quot;  Other writers have done a good job of explaining the wretched conditions in Whitechapel, but no one else has made that world and its occupants really come alive and real to me before.  Sugden deserves much praise for putting so much effort into researching, learning, and telling the true story of these women as comprehensively as possible.<br />In this book, you will find the most complete, objective story that can be told of the Whitechapel murders.  &quot;Facts&quot; you have assumed were true will be brought to light and revealed to be myths.  New information, particularly in regard to the victims, will be presented.  You will not be shown Jack the Ripper, however.  What do the facts tell us about Jack the Ripper?  That is the question Sugden poses.  He has some ideas, which he shares, but any &quot;answers&quot; to this mystery are ultimately left with the reader.<br />This book should be required reading for any person even remotely interested in Jack the Ripper.  Sugden has written the sacred tome of Ripperology, in my opinion.the victims with some detachment--this is surely a personal shortcoming on my part, but it is one that many people may share, especially given that the victims were prostitutes in Victorian London over a century ago.  In the pages of this book, though, these poor women actually become real and &quot;human.&quot;  I feel as if I knew them now, to at least a small degree, and, besides feeling pity and compassion for them, I have discovered that I actually liked a couple of them (especially Annie Camp).  These women were not just poor &quot;prostitutes.&quot;  Other writers have done a good job of explaining the wretched conditions in Whitechapel, but no one else has made that world and its occupants really come alive and real to me before.  Sugden deserves much praise for putting so much effort into researching, learning, and telling the true story of these women as comprehensively as possible.<br />In this book, you will find the most complete, objective story that can be told of the Whitechapel murders.  &quot;Facts&quot; you have assumed were true will be brought to light and revealed to be myths.  New information, particularly in regard to the victims, will be presented.  You will not be shown Jack the Ripper, however.  What do the facts tell us about Jack the Ripper?  That is the question Sugden poses.  He has some ideas, which he shares, but any &quot;answers&quot; to this mystery are ultimately left with the reader.  <br />This book should be required reading for any person even remotely interested in Jack the Ripper.  Sugden has written the sacred tome of Ripperology, in my opinion.	2001-03-13
2100104:US	53016962	R90EQBL2ZE87S	0786706260	451055080	The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Ripperology	This is an excellent introduction to Ripperology for the uninitiated; likewise, it is very useful for someone, like myself, who has read about Jack the Ripper fairly extensively in the past and just needed a good brush-up before taking up the mantle of amateur detective again.  Don't worry--I'm not going to name a suspect here in this review (partly because I certainly do not know the true identity of Jack the Ripper).  I leave the theorizing to the writers who contributed to this book.  These contributors come from different walks of life, and their proffered theories range from the ludicrous to the seemingly substantive.  Thankfully, no chapters are given to Stephen Knight's wild &quot;royal conspiracy,&quot; although it is mentioned on occasion for the purpose of repeating how ridiculous such ideas are.  The subject of the Maybrick diary is broached, with a good balance of positive and negative reactions to it (personally, I think it is a fake).  There is one chapter that did annoy me somewhat, even though I can understand the point of it.  Basically, and I won't identify him here, the contributor argues that X was the Ripper, presents evidence (circumstantial, of course, which is really the best that any theorist can offer in this case) of why this person was the Ripper, then ends the section with a Gotcha!.  See how easy it is to build a case around any &quot;suspect,&quot; he says--while that is a valid point, anyone who has read anything about this case knows the fragility and circumstantial nature of virtually every piece of evidence extant in the field, and I for one would not have chosen to waste my time reading a chapter that, in the end, was essentially nonsense.<br />The first section of the book , I should point out, consists of a very useful timeline and summation of the events and evidence, what the editors call the &quot;undisputed facts.&quot;  While no single piece of evidence is truly  &quot;undisputed&quot; among Ripperologists, this section does provide an objective look at the subject matter.  It is followed by sections specifically addressing the witness statements (many of which are of course contradictory and/or unreliable, which the editors point out), autopsy reports, the controversial &quot;Ripper letters,&quot; police views, and disputed texts.  Anyone who reads through that introductory session will have a useful foundation of knowledge to draw upon when interpreting the competing theories that make up the bulk of the book.  That being said, any reader would really benefit from having another source of an encyclopedic nature handy (and there are such books out there) because it can be confusing to keep all of the names straight when there are so many suspects that the contributors ask us to consider.<br />All in all, this is an excellent source of information on Jack the Ripper.  The background information provided by the editors is quite objective and fact-oriented, which is a rare find in books on this subject.  In most cases, someone decides who the Ripper surely was and then goes about finding &quot;facts&quot; to fit his/her theory.  That is certainly what some of the contributors to this book have done.  The editors, commendably, have not done that; they do not even offer any &quot;views&quot; on the individual theories presented here.  Their &quot;just the facts, ma'am&quot; approach is much appreciated and welcome.  While this is not the &quot;best&quot; book on the subject, it may well be the best introduction available to the history and myth of the Whitechapel murderer.s provide an objective look at the subject matter.  It is followed by sections specifically addressing the witness statements (many of which are of course contradictory and/or unreliable, which the editors point out), autopsy reports, the controversial &quot;Ripper letters,&quot; police views, and disputed texts.  Anyone who reads through that introductory session will have a useful foundation of knowledge to draw upon when interpreting the competing theories that make up the bulk of the book.  That being said, any reader would really benefit from having another source of an encyclopedic nature handy (and there are such books out there) because it can be confusing to keep all of the names straight when there are so many suspects that the contributors ask us to consider.  <br />All in all, this is an excellent source of information on Jack the Ripper.  The background information provided by the editors is quite objective and fact-oriented, which is a rare find in books on this subject.  In most cases, someone decides who the Ripper surely was and then goes about finding &quot;facts&quot; to fit his/her theory.  That is certainly what some of the contributors to this book have done.  The editors, commendably, have not done that; they do not even offer any &quot;views&quot; on the individual theories presented here.  Their &quot;just the facts, ma'am&quot; approach is much appreciated and welcome.  While this is not the &quot;best&quot; book on the subject, it may well be the best introduction available to the history and myth of the Whitechapel murderer.	2001-02-17
2124425:US	53016962	R25JI56ZWBULTT	0060922044	551756664	The Holy Grail	Books	2	18	18	N	N	What Do I Win?	Surely, after reading this entire book, I deserve some sort of prize as reward for my efforts.  Undoubtedly, reading this book requires an uncommon effort on behalf of the reader.  Goodrich employs a writing style even more idiosyncratic and unwieldy than my own.  I don't think she is a terrible writer, all the same, and I must praise anyone who is able to get an editor to accept passive sentences.  Nonetheless, there are sentences that, no matter how many times I read them, do not seem to be sentences at all, just expressions that often make no sense.  On a broader level, many passages in the book either do not seem to relate to the topic at hand, namely the Holy Grail, or else they only make sense if the reader already knows much of the information that the author assumes her readers know (doubtless, she assumes we have already read her books on Arthur, Merlin, etc.).  I never really grasped the relevance of Esclamonde in the story, even though the author devotes a lengthy chapter to her.  There are some sections, I must say, that are interesting and less arcane, particularly the section about the innately interesting Knights Templar.  A remarkable sentence in this section leaped out at me (as no other sentence did, I assure you).  When alluding to the tortures inflicted on the Knights Templar in France, she writes &quot;No woman, it is certain, can believe that any man alive would torture another man in such ways.&quot;  Regrettably, to my morbid tastes, she doesn't really detail these horrible acts.  What makes this sentence so interesting is the fact that Goodrich's feminism is clearly evident throughout the whole book.  In fact, some sections seem to degenerate into a feminist diatribe bearing almost no relation to the Grail quest.  I guess the sentence referenced above means that women are less bestial than men; if not, it sounds like a Victorian sentiment about the daintiness of women.  In the end, I can't really recommend this book to the general reader.  You just aren't going to find a lot of substantive information about the Holy Grail here, at least not the kind of information I was looking for.  Maybe an expert in mediaeval literature would find this book much more stimulating and relevant than I did.  If you want to prove to yourself that you are truly an intellectual, though, this may be the best test I can think of for you.  Good luck.ou just aren't going to find a lot of substantive information about the Holy Grail here, at least not the kind of information I was looking for.  Maybe an expert in mediaeval literature would find this book much more stimulating and relevant than I did.  If you want to prove to yourself that you are truly an intellectual, though, this may be the best test I can think of for you.  Good luck.	2001-01-28
2165166:US	53016962	RWMN048G91SIQ	0671865412	543869927	Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant	Books	5	92	100	N	N	Historical Detective Work at its Finest	This is an exceedingly interesting book, albeit controversial, for anyone interested in &quot;history's mysteries.&quot;  For those of us who have pored through the works of Zecharia Sitchin and dared to ponder questions that the scientists and religious authorities regard as sacrilegious (after all, science itself is a religion), this is especially interesting material.  You don't have to believe in Hancock's theories (although he offers a weighty, serious argument for them) in order to love this book.  Even if you regard the idea of the Ark of the Covenant resting in Ethiopia (or the notion that the Ark even exists) as preposterous, you can still enjoy this book in the same way you can delight in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories; this book is about solving a mystery.  Just as Holmes' series of adventures often resulted in no real, firm, graspable truth, so is the case here.  This detracts little from the story, however.  The final judgment is left up to you, the reader, which is the trademark of any substantive mystery--only in this way can the great and unattainable &quot;truth,&quot; in its most esoteric sense, be glimpsed.<br />Granted, Hancock is not a scientist or theologian, but this may in fact serve as his greatest qualification for tackling the types of lofty problems he embraces.  After all, the vast majority of scientists and theologians dismiss without consideration the sorts of &quot;wild&quot; ideas discussed in this book; if not for the open minds of men like Mr. Hancock, many truths that have now been established would remain jokes told by the arrogant &quot;experts&quot; over tea--take, as an example, the discovery of Troy.  As for the content of this book, it truly is a mix of history, religion, and archaeology.  This is not Indiana Jones' quest for the Ark of the Covenant, so anyone looking for that sort of action will be disappointed.  Anyone expecting to see pictures and Hancock's personal descriptions of the Ark will also be disappointed.  Whatever rests in the Church of Saint Mary of Zion in Ethiopia will not and probably should not be revealed to the eyes of anyone other than its appointed guardian.<br />What you will find in this book is a lesson on the history of the ancient Israelites and of the Biblical Ark, a history of Ethiopia (which I for one had never really heard the first thing about), a history of the mysterious Knights Templar (truly fascinating and mysterious men), and an enlightening story of Gothic architecture and mediaeval literature.  Parzival is not an easy book to read, and thus it is rather unknown, even though it is just as important (and, if Hancock is correct, much more important) than Malory's better-known treatment of King Arthur and his search for the Holy Grail.  The idea Hancock presents, namely that the Holy Grail was in fact the Ark of the Covenant, manages to bring together the story of the two most important Biblical artifacts in history.  If you have an open mind and a zest for &quot;understanding,&quot; then this book should definitely be included on your reading list.  Believe Hancock's opinions or not, the tale he tells is fascinating, dramatic, and intellectually enlightening.disappointed.  Whatever rests in the Church of Saint Mary of Zion in Ethiopia will not and probably should not be revealed to the eyes of anyone other than its appointed guardian.  <br />What you will find in this book is a lesson on the history of the ancient Israelites and of the Biblical Ark, a history of Ethiopia (which I for one had never really heard the first thing about), a history of the mysterious Knights Templar (truly fascinating and mysterious men), and an enlightening story of Gothic architecture and mediaeval literature.  Parzival is not an easy book to read, and thus it is rather unknown, even though it is just as important (and, if Hancock is correct, much more important) than Malory's better-known treatment of King Arthur and his search for the Holy Grail.  The idea Hancock presents, namely that the Holy Grail was in fact the Ark of the Covenant, manages to bring together the story of the two most important Biblical artifacts in history.  If you have an open mind and a zest for &quot;understanding,&quot; then this book should definitely be included on your reading list.  Believe Hancock's opinions or not, the tale he tells is fascinating, dramatic, and intellectually enlightening.	2000-12-26
2190002:US	53016962	R2AFK70HBJV3W8	0843946903	934186299	One Rainy Night	Books	4	7	9	N	N	For Entertainment Purposes Only	If you like horror and enjoy reading for pleasure and entertainment only, you should take a look at Laymon.  This is not Faulkner; you are not going to learn anything from this book.  This is the second Laymon novel I have read, and I must say I enjoyed this much more than I did Bite.  The characters were a little more real this time, and a couple of them were even likeable.  I still can't really figure Laymon out; the whole time I am reading him, I have a gnawing feeling that the guy is just a hack, yet he does a good job of keeping my interest and entertaining me.  He's just here to tell a good story, and it may be unfair of me to expect something more from him--Laymon certainly seems comfortable in his style, and I admire him for that.  That in itself is the sign of a good, confident writer.  And he does tell a good story.  Action is the name of the game here; the writing style is very direct. Basically, all of the important characters wind up wet at some point, so we must judge them by how they act under abnormal and normal conditions in order to &quot;understand&quot; them.  Good and bad exists in all of us, and Laymon certainly seems to recognize this fact.  One thing sticks out in my mind--I am bemused by the fact that Laymon's characters are always hungry.  They can survive an assault by a bunch of wet, black, terrifying people and then immediately sit down to eat: restaurant employees (those still alive) start serving dinner before dead rioters can even be stowed away.  Denise and Kara, a teenager and young girl (the true heroes in my mind), eat popcorn in between acts of defending their very lives.  When I think of some of the actions and events in this book now, they almost seem laughable.  While you are reading it, though, these things don't matter.  Laymon makes it all work somehow.  Those disgusted by gore should not even be reading this review, yet Laymon's gore is not as bad as it is made out to be; the gore in this book belongs here, really, and it does not seem to be employed purely for shock value.  All in all, Laymon is an intriguing writer, and I can't really understand why this American author, while popular in Britain, has never made much of a splash here in the States--he is certainly a better writer than John Saul, for example.  Laymon is unique; some will like him and some will not, but you can't know how you will react to him until you actually try him out.does not seem to be employed purely for shock value.  All in all, Laymon is an intriguing writer, and I can't really understand why this American author, while popular in Britain, has never made much of a splash here in the States--he is certainly a better writer than John Saul, for example.  Laymon is unique; some will like him and some will not, but you can't know how you will react to him until you actually try him out.	2000-12-03
2200715:US	53016962	R33DXGDGFTF8K	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	3	20	22	N	N	A Fun But Less Than Informative Book	Needless to say, if you weren't captivated by the Survivor television show, you probably don't want to read this book.  Even for Survivor diehards like myself, however, this book is not a perfect gift from the jungle gods.  It does give the reader some great insight into the production side of the story, which is very interesting.  As an example, I was quite surprised to learn that the Malaysian bar Kelly was taken to as a reward was actually a building on Pulau Tiga, improvised on the fly when the producers learned that the castaways were expecting something &quot;big&quot; for the reward to that particular challenge---the original reward being just a can of beer, pure and simple (this after Sean's night on a yacht with his father in the previous reward challenge).  What were they thinking?  On the down side, I was disappointed to find that many incidents I knew from the show were simply glossed over or ignored altogether.  Kelly's &quot;loss&quot; to Gervase in the boating challenge--not mentioned; Rudy's incredible gaffe at the last challenge--mentioned in passing.  The story of the final tribal council, a time of incredible tension, is given two pages.  Sue's speech is barely mentioned, and not only is there no discussion of who voted for whom, there is not even a breakdown of who voted for whom.  If you didn't watch the show, you will not find out in this book which four voted for Rich and which three voted for Kelly, let alone why they did so.  This should have been the longest chapter in the book, yet the authors sprint through it almost recklessly.  That is the biggest disappointment I felt in reading this; in the story of the last three days on the island, we could have really learned who these people were and how the 39 days on the island had changed them emotionally, yet that story is not here.  I must also add that the editing, at least in my early printing of the book, is horrible.  I understand that this book was probably rushed to the printing press, but I have to ask if anyone proofread the final printing at all.  There are a large number of errors here--words jumbled around, apostrophes in the strangest of places, etc.  This isn't War and Peace--one person could have proofread this printing in one day and eliminated dozens of mistakes.  All in all, I must say that only diehard fans should read this book; anyone wanting to really understand the individuals in this drama, though, would do better to watch all of the episodes over again because this book does not provide much insight into their natures.but I have to ask if anyone proofread the final printing at all.  There are a large number of errors here--words jumbled around, apostrophes in the strangest of places, etc.  This isn't War and Peace--one person could have proofread this printing in one day and eliminated dozens of mistakes.  All in all, I must say that only diehard fans should read this book; anyone wanting to really understand the individuals in this drama, though, would do better to watch all of the episodes over again because this book does not provide much insight into their natures.	2000-11-23
2210151:US	53016962	RN0LMK4J155HB	0843945508	217573810	Bite	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A Short Story on Amphetamines	This novel is somewhat unusual in that it really has the feel of a short story.  There is not a great deal of &quot;depth&quot; here.  This is the first Laymon book I have read, so I don't know whether or not the writing in this book is typical of Laymon's other works.  In a way, this lack of depth works in Bite; this kind of tale would seem to require a brisk, off-the-cuff pace to it--otherwise, the reader would have too much time to question the things going on here.  Basically, the protagonist drops everything and quickly agrees to help an old flame murder a &quot;vampire&quot; (while this vampire is indulging in carnal pleasures with this man's &quot;true love&quot;), and then agrees to haul the body out to the desert for some forgettable reason.  Along the way, the couple ends up meeting three of the most unusual, unlikeable (and not in a good way) characters in the world, fighting with, for, and against them in turn, all the while facing ridiculous situations that could easily have been avoided.  Of course, they still find time to pause from their bloody, exhausting efforts in order to &quot;enjoy each other's company.&quot;  I ended up hoping everyone in this book would die.  As I try to describe this book now, it really does sound like a stupid, hackneyed premise.  Action alone keeps this story going; when all is said and done, there is no real story here--just action.  The reader is not going to learn any universal truths in this book (and this is not the author's intention, anyway), but Laymon does manage to keep your interest throughout by never letting the pace of the story slow down.  This is a good read for people seeking entertainment; those who would approach this book with a more serious mindset will be disappointed.	2000-11-15
2222100:US	53016962	R1AJ643TAL7GNE	0807119539	484574816	White Terror: The Ku Klux Klan Conspiracy and Southern Reconstruction	Books	4	39	53	N	N	An Important, Invaluable Failure	Trelease makes a monumental effort to describe the Reconstruction-era Klan from his temporal location in 1970.  This academic work is invaluable in that it is the best and only source of all major Klan activity from the end of the War for Southern Independence to the end of Radical Reconstruction--Trelease follows the Klan chronologically, focusing on hotbeds of activity in all regions of the South.  This is important because different motivations and activities defined each local incidence of Klan activity.  Sadly, Trelease fails to take advantage of his unique position, in which he could have written a scholarly, enlightening portrait of the many facets of Klan activities and Klan members.  Instead, predictably, Trelease resorts to seeking out examples that support his own cries of conspiracy and terrorism.  He gives no credence to stories of the defensive nature of the Reconstruction Klan, choosing to argue that the Klan was a terrorist organization seeking white supremacy, a conspiracy penetrating all aspects of white society to the point of subverting local justice.  White violence, he asserts, was racially motivated, usually carried out by mobs, and almost always directed against blacks.  He dismisses out of hand such motivating factors as illegal moonshining and Democratic-Republican political differences among whites and gives short shrift to cases of white-on-white violence.  He relies heavily on the KKK Congressional Report and testimony of 1871 and on legislative acts dealing with the Klan, often failing to place these &quot;facts&quot; within the true social context of their origins.  While admitting that the existence of the Union League served as a stimulus to the birth and growth of the Klan, he maintains that the Union League had no connections to violence, a tenuous (indeed laughable) position to take.  While stressing white supremacy as the one major motivation of the Klan, he subverts this message by continually denigrating the Klan for its overriding political aspects.  When he acknowledges the fact that some Klan leaders sought law and order, he continues to accuse even these men of politically-motivated violence.  Trelease, while giving lip service to the existence of many independent &quot;clans&quot; and undisciplined individual acts, seeks to implicate the Klan in all cases of violence in the Reconstruction South.  While this work is probably the most valuable resource available on Reconstruction-era Klan activity (due to the wealth of information it contains), it is also a major failure.  Trelease had a golden opportunity to examine the real depths of the different motivations that went into Klan activity and violence (which, despite what Trelease implies, was not engaged in by every white man in the South), but he resorted to a myopic view of events and a decidedly shallow condemnation of a decidedly fluid, far from cohesive society, which he never really tried hard enough to understand.ding political aspects.  When he acknowledges the fact that some Klan leaders sought law and order, he continues to accuse even these men of politically-motivated violence.  Trelease, while giving lip service to the existence of many independent &quot;clans&quot; and undisciplined individual acts, seeks to implicate the Klan in all cases of violence in the Reconstruction South.  While this work is probably the most valuable resource available on Reconstruction-era Klan activity (due to the wealth of information it contains), it is also a major failure.  Trelease had a golden opportunity to examine the real depths of the different motivations that went into Klan activity and violence (which, despite what Trelease implies, was not engaged in by every white man in the South), but he resorted to a myopic view of events and a decidedly shallow condemnation of a decidedly fluid, far from cohesive society, which he never really tried hard enough to understand.	2000-11-04
2223687:US	53016962	R2K6BFOWBX9XT	0812571452	662098422	Finity	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An Interesting, Stimulating Read	I have only recently discovered John Barnes, but I can say that he is a very talented writer. I had had this book on my shelf for a good while now, and I am glad I finally picked it up to read it.  I found this novel very entertaining and &quot;gripping.&quot;  Granted, the story is disjointed at points, but so is the world that Barnes has created here, one where people &quot;jump&quot; back and forth between dimensions or universes.  Some of the characters are quite forgettable, but the narrator and Iphwin stand out from the crowd.  Despite this, I would like to have seen more &quot;fleshing out&quot; of Iphwin in the novel; there were aspects about him that lingered in my mind until the end.  I expected to get some insight on these traits, but the lines were left dangling somewhat.  What I remember most about the narrator is his detailed explanations of and conjectures based on &quot;abductive reasoning.&quot;  Maybe I have managed to get away from hard science fiction long enough to be impressed by Barnes' elaboration of these ideas, but the fact of the matter is that I was impressed (in a similar way as I am impressed--though somewhat bored--by Jules Verne's prosaic &quot;scientific&quot; tangents).  The ending of the story was indeed somewhat anticlimactic.  With just a few pages to go, I kept wondering how the author was going to tie everything up into a neat little bow in so short a time.  In point of fact, Barnes did the opposite of what I was looking for and resolved very little.  In a way, though, it is nice for an author to resist the pressure to achieve balance and full illumination in his writing.  All in all, I found this to be a very good novel; before I was halfway through it, in fact, I had already gone out to buy all of Barnes' books that I could find locally.  I have read a couple of his other novels since reading Finity, but I found this book to be the most interesting and memorable of the group.	2000-11-02
2313262:US	53016962	RJOEQ6QP23NSR	0713727322	991132670	The Alien Intent: A Dire Warning : The Truth Behind the Cover Up?	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Challenging Overview of Ufology	Robinson's The Alien Intent is an interesting, worthwhile read.  Much of the information presented here is well known to those of us previously  interested in the ufology field already, though.  As such, the book is a  good introductory book for those people who are newly interested in the  controversial subject of extraterrestrials; that being said, however, the  author does make a few assumptions that some general readers may not be  comfortable with.  This is as much of a positive as a negative.  Truth is  the main objective in this type of pursuit, and truth is uniquely hard to  grasp in this field because the public is constantly bombarded with  disinformation and misinformation from all sides.  If this book did not  reflect certain ideas the author believes to be true and only pandered to  the public in an attempt to make all of its readers happy, I would not  recommend it.  This type of book must be challenging.  Those who reject the  extraterrestrial hypothesis out of hand will not like this book (nor will  they even think of reading it in the first place); those who come to this  book with an open mind and no personal feelings either for or against the  legitimacy of UFO research will benefit greatly--society's commonly held  beliefs will be shown to them in a new light, and they will be forced to  think about these matters anew, perhaps for the first time.  There are no  in-depth studies of any events or ideas--no expansive study of all the  aspects of the purported Roswell crash in 1947, no count-by-count  description of MIB sightings over the years, no statistical study of alien  abductions, etc.  What the author presents are basic and common themes in  this constantly evolving story.  As a part of this--and this is the most  beneficial aspect of the book for the growing numbers of us who are fairly  familiar with the UFO literature--he attempts to place the ET hypothesis  within the largest context possible.  Some of the chapters, such as those  referring to what I hesitantly label &quot;ancient astronauts&quot; or  thoughts on the origins of the universe and time itself, seem to be  brainstorm sessions of a sort for the benefit of the reader.  While the  book does not actually give us the &quot;truth&quot; or provide substantial  reasons for viewing ETs as a threat rather than a benefactor, it does offer  good, rational reasons for a possible government cover-up, and Robinson  offers helpful information on the hierarchy of the CIA and how this  hierarchy could have interacted with the USAF and other government agencies  regarding UFOs as it evolved from its creation in the late 1940s into the  intelligence service it is today.  All in all, this book offers benefits to  any potential reader, from the skeptic to the true believer.ng to what I hesitantly label &quot;ancient astronauts&quot; or  thoughts on the origins of the universe and time itself, seem to be  brainstorm sessions of a sort for the benefit of the reader.  While the  book does not actually give us the &quot;truth&quot; or provide substantial  reasons for viewing ETs as a threat rather than a benefactor, it does offer  good, rational reasons for a possible government cover-up, and Robinson  offers helpful information on the hierarchy of the CIA and how this  hierarchy could have interacted with the USAF and other government agencies  regarding UFOs as it evolved from its creation in the late 1940s into the  intelligence service it is today.  All in all, this book offers benefits to  any potential reader, from the skeptic to the true believer.	2000-08-22
