372177:US	53037408	R2U52COYQJ4FAT	0131490478	684579090	The Project Management Advisor: 18 Major Project Screw-Ups, and How to Cut Them off at the Pass	Books	5	11	12	N	N	For new *and* seasoned PMs	Regardless of whether you're managing your first project, or have the battle scars from many, this excellent book will be an invaluable resource.<br /><br />For the new PM the 18 \\"Screw-ups\\" cited will give you ample warning about the most common pitfalls encountered in any project. Note that this book is more slanted towards software development projects, but the 18 pitfalls apply to any project type.<br /><br />Seasoned project managers will recognize every one of the pitfalls cited.  Even though this readership may have developed techniques to prevent them after years of experience, many will find the list to be an excellent review before initiating any project. One of the best uses of this book for seasoned (and even new) PMs is to share copies of this book with key project team members and all major stakeholders before the project is initiated.  This will communicate awareness of the most likely things that can go wrong, as well as build a collaborative environment.<br /><br />I particularly like the format used to present each \\"screw-up\\" - \\"How it happens\\", \\"Warning signs\\", \\"Turning it around\\" and \\"Takeaways\\".  This format casts each of the 18 \\"screw-ups\\" as a pattern of sorts, and presents each in a consistent manner. I also liked some of the artifacts depicted in the book, such as the example progress report. This (and additional material) can be downloaded from the site supporting the book (paste the ASIN - B00061GLJ2 - into the search box on this page, select All Products, and click the Go button).<br /><br />The wisdom contained in this excellent, easy-to-read compendium is invaluable.  I personally love the book and highly recommend it.	2005-01-26
380190:US	53037408	R2OPD39M4A4RET	0970601999	526260337	Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten	Books	5	73	79	N	N	Use Excel (or PowerPoint)? Read this book	As a consultant I need to gather and analyze data and transform it into information and findings. This book leads you through the transformation of data - especially if you use Excel or PowerPoint - by showing how to select the best table and chart formats to convey the information aggregated from data.<br /><br />The thrust of the book is communicating.  The author lays a solid foundation early in the book by covering qualtitative relationships, summarization and various data types. He then builds upon the foundation with succinct discussions and advice on selecting tablular formats and the correct charts to convey the information.<br /><br />While Excel is the principal tool used to illustrate the concepts and techniques in the book, I have applied the author's advice to Visio and PowerPoint, as well as a few more obscure charting and graphics programs.<br /><br />I like the clarity with which the information is presented, and the practical examples given throughout the book.  More importantly, this book isn't a tome that is aimed at graphic designers, making it an ideal resource for technical and business professionals who do not fully grasp the nuances of graphic presentation.<br /><br />If you present data and information - using any application - I strongly recommend this book because it will make your presentations meaningful and easy-to-understand, and will show you how to avoid a plethora of common mistakes like using the wrong chart or impossible to understand tables.	2005-01-20
381369:US	53037408	R2S0W7QT4QFXKJ	0975568604	653693342	The Visible Ops Handbook: Starting ITIL in 4 Practical Steps	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Important addition to the ITIL body of knowledge	This short book manages to capture the essentials of what it takes to initate ITIL in any organization.  The authors do not drift off on tangents or lose sight of the scope of the book - they present a realistic starting point and four clearly defined steps that will move you forward towards implementing ITIL.<br /><br />I like the emphasis on change and release management, which (to me) is the keystone for ITIL. I also like how the steps have clear objectives that can be measured, as well as exit criteria to assure that each step is completed before moving to the next.<br /><br />This is not a comprehensive book on implementing ITIL, but a starting point.  More importantly, the approach set forth in the book will significantly improve the operational process capabilities of most IT organizations regardless of whether implementing ITIL is a goal.<br /><br />Additional information about the book and the approach can be found on the authors' site.  You can get to the site by pasting the ISBN number - B00006CNEY - into the search box, selecting all products, and clicking the GO button.<br /><br />This book is a welcome and important addition to the ITIL body of knowledge because it cuts through to the essentials and provides you with a clear path to getting started.	2005-01-19
586626:US	53037408	R2GEIT05BI56LL	1556172656	402463864	The Purdue Enterprise Reference Architecture	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Source for EAs in CIM verticals	This is an intermediate work that describes PERA, which is a general enterprise reference architecture model that is suited for manufacturing enterprises.<br />The book explains PERA as a layered architecture, and within the context of an architectural life cycle.  PERA at the conceptual level is focused on the integration of physical plant, human resources, and information systems. This approach is clearly suited to manufacturing, and in fact, the model has been adopted and adapted by Fluor Daniel Corporation (among others) and has been proven in practice.<br />You'll find a complete description of PERA circa 1992, including exhaustive descriptions enterprise mission, information and control, and the layers and milestones associated with PERA.  While this particular book is old and out of print, the information is relevant to PERA and is an excellent sourcebook of ideas for any architectural approach, but especially an approach within the manufacturing domain.<br />More up-to-date material, including the PERA Master Planning Handbook and PERA Reference Model for Computer Integrated Manufacturing, and a wealth of articles and other information, is provided on the PERA Enterprise Integration site, ASIN B0002KOXW4. Paste the ASIN number in the Search box, select All Products and click the GO button to reach this site.<br />Despite this book's age it is an invaluable resource; however, I recommend visiting the site listed above and exploring the resources there before tracking down a copy of this book.	2004-07-16
591525:US	53037408	R20KKZVLIPSBHC	0471222933	824927490	Core Concepts of Information Technology Auditing	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Apt title - excellent intro	Although this is a college-level text, it can be effectively used by newly minted IT auditors to quickly learn the key knowledge and skill factors needed to function within their roles.<br />I like and highly recommend this book because of the emphasis on CObIT (Control Objectives for IT), which is the basis for auditing per the IT Governance Institute, which is, in turn under the aegis of Information Systems Audit and Control Association.<br />As stated by a previous reviewer, this book is wide in scope.  The first three chapters cover the basics in clear prose and sufficient detail to give both students and on-the-job new practitioners all of the information needed to orient themselves in the role of an IT auditor. The emphasis on risk management in different domains is another strong point.  The chapters covering risks associated with network and telecommunications, e-business systems, and system deployments are both technically accurate and portray realistic scenarios.  Chapters 9 (Conducting the IT Audit), and 10 (Fraud and Forensic Auditing) round out the topic areas, leaving no gaps in the knowledge required to be an IT auditor.<br />The accompanying CD ROM has a software application to be used in conjunction with Appendix B case study. I did not work the case study, nor did I thoroughly exercise the application, so will refrain from making judgments about the usability or value of the application. The case study, though, was well put together and realistic, making it an ideal adjunct for class exercises, as well as working practicing auditors through real world scenarios.<br />For those new to IT Auditing in general and CObIT in particular I recommend visiting the following two sites: IT Governance Institute, ASIN B0001F8V14, and Information Systems Audit and Control Association, ASIN B00006BW74.  You can paste the ASIN numbers in the Search box, select All Products and click the GO button to reach these sites.  Once there you can explore additional material that will augment this book, as well as copies of CObIT, and an 84-page document titled 'IT Control Objectives for Sarbanes-Oxley', which is one of the hottest contemporary topics in IT auditing.that will augment this book, as well as copies of CObIT, and an 84-page document titled 'IT Control Objectives for Sarbanes-Oxley', which is one of the hottest contemporary topics in IT auditing.	2004-07-13
594390:US	53037408	R2K1VNA3XFRNJA	0894135104	203293773	Internal Audit's Role in Corporate Governance: Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Valuable tools	This book/CD ROM combination is a quick-start tool for internal auditors who need to drill down to the essentials and eliminate the time it takes to develop in-house aids for compliance.<br />The book is a mere 119 pages, of which approximately 110 are main content.  It covers Section 301(audit committees), Section 302 (quarterly CEO and CFO certifications), and Section 404 (management assessment of internal controls).  Each part of the book is brief and assumes familiarity with Sarbanes-Oxley.  The value is in the essentials.  For example, Section 301 material provides an audit committee charter issues matrix, which is typical of the tools that are provided in conjunction with discussions of other sections of the act.<br />On the accompanying CD ROM are equally valuable tools and documents, including the following in soft copy:<br />Section 301: Audit Committees Audit Committee Charter Issues Matrix, and Sample Audit Committee Charter<br />Section 302: COSO-based Risk Assessment Tool, COSO-based Disclosure Control Guide, Sample Disclosure Committee Charter, El Paso Internal Control Assessment Survey<br />Section 404: Control Model Project Plan, COSO Grid and Worksheets, ALLTEL Internal Control System Survey and Control and Risk Assessment Report<br />The above, combined with the highly focused (if somewhat terse) text of the book combine to make this set an invaluable addition to the internal auditor's toolbox.	2004-07-11
594464:US	53037408	R2W392G8KAILGP	1580533701	424802311	Role-Based Access Control	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Most complete RBAC reference	The three authors are leaders in RBAC research and development, making this book one of the most authoritative and complete references to RBAC.<br />Chapters 1 through 3 give a solid foundation for understanding RBAC and how it evolved, starting with an introduction, an exhaustive survey of access control methods needed to fully understand the evolution, and a solid and detailed overview of RBAC itself.<br />In the subsequent chapters each aspect of RBAC is covered in depth.  Topics include role hierarchies, separation of duty policies, administration, integrating RBAC into existing infrastructures, and migration to RBAC.  In addition, there are chapters on related topics that give this book wide scope - &quot;Using RBAC to Implement Military Policies&quot; shows how to implement multi-level security models with RBAC.  This information uses military policies, but the material is also of interest to any commercial organization seeking tightly integrated access controls and a high security posture. The chapter on the proposed NIST RBAC standard also covers key items of interest, including  Common Criteria RBAC protection profiles and other conformance issues.  There are also chapters on RBAC research and prototypes, and commercial products.<br />While this book is well written and uses illustrations to impart key concepts, you will need to be conversant with set theory in order to get the most from it, as well as understand RBAC itself.  If you are a bit rusty I recommend refreshing your skills before diving into this book.<br />If you want to explore RBAC and the work of each of the authors visit NIST Computer Security Division and Computer Security Research by pasting the ASIN, B0001O48Y4, into the search box, selecting all products and clicking GO.  Once you are on the site you'll find the RBAC section  under Security Research/Emerging Technologies-&gt;Authorization Management and Advanced Access Control Models (AM&amp;AACM) link.	2004-07-11
594494:US	53037408	R233P09VSYO631	0849312485	624389264	The Privacy Papers: Managing Technology, Consumer, Employee and Legislative Actions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Solid multi-audience resource, some gaps	This book covers a lot of ground, with information that will be of interest to IT security, HR and privacy managers (in some large companies security and privacy are combined into a single function), internal auditors, and database, systems and network administrators.<br />The first section, Business Organization Issues, covers policies for a number of functional areas, auditing, e-commerce issues, and related concerns at the administrative level.  Technology is also addressed as a high-level, as are topical concerns such as identity theft and internet activities.<br />Section two covers the full range of applicable tools and related technologies, including encryption/cryptography, cookies and profiling, monitoring and content filtering, wireless communications and data mining.<br />In the final section US and international laws and issues are covered at a high level, but sufficiently detailed to provide the salient issues. Although there are some minor gaps in this section, it was up-to-date when it was published, and the gaps can be addressed through extrapolation and other publications.  The most notable gap is the absence of Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 requirements related to data access and manipulation, and other assurance measures.  That said, the material in this book is consistent with SOA, and the information and advice map nicely to it if you cross reference requirements to business organization issues, and tools and technologies sections of this book.	2004-07-11
594496:US	53037408	R3V076J6KFMG1H	0972751394	456403921	Oracle Privacy Security Auditing: Includes Federal Law Compliance with HIPAA, Sarbanes Oxley & The Gramm Leach Bliley Act GLB (Oracle In-Focus series)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Landmark book for Oracle shops	This remarkable book covers how to use Oracle 9i security and auditing facilities to achieve compliance with three major laws.  While the book emphasizes HIPAA, it also addresses, either directly or indirectly, privacy security and auditing with respect to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Subtitle A: Disclosure of Nonpublic Personal Information 15 U.S.C.  6801-6810 and Subtitle B: Fraudulent Access to Financial Information 15 U.S.C.  6821-6827), HIPAA requirements for protecting data and enforcing security and privacy, and Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 requirements related to integration of transactional systems, logs and auditing trails, and data security.<br /><br />Structure of this book is in three sections:<br /><br />Section I gives an introductions to HIPAA, Oracle security and Oracle auditing. Among the topics covered are grant, role-based, and profile based security, as well as virtual private databases (row-level security, fine-grained access control), and application server security.<br /><br />Section II goes deeper into general Oracle security, covering relational grant security as it relates specifically to HIPAA (but can be also used for Gramm-Leach-Bliley and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance because the requirements are similar regarding these mechanisms and techniques). Also covered are encryption and network security.<br /><br />Section III deals with auditing using Oracle facilities, tables, DDL and DML, and covers the spectrum from grants auditing to fine-grained audits. Again, the focus is on HIPAA requirements (Chapter 11, for example, contains the following topics: Auditing select access as per the HIPAA mandated auditing of Patient Health Information, and Combining FGA and Flashback queries to answer the most important question in addition to who saw the data, what they saw.)  This section ends with HIPAA security and auditing checklists, which can be also applied to Sarbanes-Oxley and Gramm-Leach-Bliley security and auditing.<br /><br />This book is an outstanding addition to bodies of knowledge spanning three disciplines - internal auditing, DBA, and IT security & privacy.  A copy should be provided to managers and subject matter experts in each of those domains.outstanding addition to bodies of knowledge spanning three disciplines - internal auditing, DBA, and IT security & privacy.  A copy should be provided to managers and subject matter experts in each of those domains.	2004-07-11
594748:US	53037408	R3IJRBHJAXK1JH	1580537197	330056822	Open Source Software Law (Artech House Telecommunications Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Authoritative and essential	This is one of two books that are essential resources for software acquisition - &quot;Software Agreements Line by Line&quot; (ISBN 1587623692) for commercial software, and this one for open source.<br />The SCO debacle with respect to Linux, and earlier cases of open source challenges, such as that related to MySQL, underscore the importance of understanding what you can and cannot do under the provisions of the various open source license models.  This book provides a thorough understanding of each of the major license models, a comparison of open source to commercial models, and topics such as intellectual property protection, governing laws, and related issues.<br />I like the way the author, a practicing attorney and respected expert in cyberlaw and Internet governance, places open source in context with background information on software patents, open source goals and the Open Source Definition.  This is key to understanding the licensing models, including GNU GPL, Copyleft, Aladdin Free Public License, and Open Software License. It's also key to understanding the limitations and possible vulnerabilities inherent with these license models in particular, and open source models in general - especially regarding ownership of code, derivative works, and the legal ramifications.<br />An interesting chapter for anyone who is considering releasing an open source product, &quot;Rolling Your Own Open Source License&quot;, covers these issues from the developer's perspective, and gives excellent advice for selecting the appropriate open source license model.<br />The appendices and associated CD ROM contain a wealth of reference material, ranging from significant provisions of UCITA and UETA (1999), to a summary of every major and some minor models not covered in detail in the body of the book. Two areas in the appendix that merits attention are Fundamentals of Copyright Law, and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), both of which are germane.<br />This book is augmented by the author's weblog, which is an invaluable resource and should be visited.  The CD ROM that comes with this book is a searchable resource for quickly finding license template information and related laws.augmented by the author's weblog, which is an invaluable resource and should be visited.  The CD ROM that comes with this book is a searchable resource for quickly finding license template information and related laws.	2004-07-11
594811:US	53037408	R3D5LBH8Y3SEZO	0471206024	998817757	Designing Security Architecture Solutions	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Layered approach to multi-level security	This is one of the most pragmatic, thorough books on security architectures I've read. The approach the author takes represents best practices in a number of disciplines, including architecture, software engineering, and infrastructure management.  This holistic view of security architecture is not provided in total in any of the hundreds of security books I've read.<br />Among the reasons I like and recommend this book are:  the approach starts with architectural principles and a survey of approaches based on well known models, as well as development life cycles in the real world.  The chapter on security assessments shows how to determine a security posture, establish a baseline and deal with gaps.  In addition, the chapters on Security Architecture Basics and Architecture Patterns will provide the foundation of a viable approach to designing a strong security architecture.<br />I also like the way each architectural building block is systematically covered in subsequent chapters, beginning in Part II with low-level architecture components and technical details that span code review techniques, cryptography fundamentals and related topics.  Part III covers the mid-level components in detail, including middleware, web, database, application and OS security. Part IV tackles high-level security, culminating in an enterprise security architecture based on low- and mid-level components, and the process-oriented approach provided in the previous parts of the book. This book goes deep into technical details of every facet of the components, showing how they work, interrelationships, standards, and advice for how to deal with challenges and vulnerabilities.<br />Making the business case for security, the topic of Part V, is as thorough and detailed as the preceding technical chapters.  Case studies, issues and factors, costs and underlying financial formulae are tied together to help you to craft a viable and realistic business case for proceeding with the design and implementation of a security architecture.<br />This book is focused, covers the entire landscape of security architecture, design and implementation, and leaves no gaps.  I strongly recommend it as the workgroup reference in the standards &amp; architecture, software engineering, project, and infrastructure domains.ementation of a security architecture.<br />This book is focused, covers the entire landscape of security architecture, design and implementation, and leaves no gaps.  I strongly recommend it as the workgroup reference in the standards &amp; architecture, software engineering, project, and infrastructure domains.	2004-07-11
595175:US	53037408	R146R979Y7G0PZ	141201607X	317892768	How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Valuable compendium	When I received this book I quickly scanned it and dismissed it as a niche book for architects working in the US Government or contractors working in that environment.  After reading it, though, I believe that this is an invaluable book for enterprise architects in the commercial sector as well.<br />For those working in or with the US Government, and especially the Department of Defense, this book's in-depth comparison of enterprise architectures within that domain is an amazing resource.  Among the government- and DoD-specific architectures covered are Federal Enterprise Architecture Framework (FEAF) issued by the CIO council, Command, Control, Communications, Computer Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Architecture (a part of the Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DODAF), and Joint Technical Architecture. This book also covers CCA architecture compliance.  This is an interesting part of the book because lessons learned from CCA compliance requirements may possibly translate into an approach for aligning commercial architectures to Sarbanes-Oxley, which is a hot topic in the commercial sector.<br />Enterprise architectures in the commercial domain that are covered include the Zachman Framework, Enterprise Architecture Planning, The Open Group Architecture Framework, and the Integrated Architecture Framework. More importantly, there are manufacturing-specific frameworks covered, such as the Purdue Enterprise Reference Architecture and the Computer Integrated Manufacturing Open Systems Architecture, which round out this book's comprehensive survey of architectures.<br />The manner in which the above architectures are covered is what I most like about this book.  The author has performed the mind-numbing task of collecting relevant factors of each architecture, then presenting them in a set format: history, purpose, scope, principles, structure, guidance and compliance. This format allows you to use this book as a catalog of architectures, as well as the basis for comparing the strengths and weaknesses of architectures that are suitable for a specific environment.<br />I also like the first eight chapters, and chapters 11 and 12, which provide general information about enterprise architectures, definitions, and advice on how to select the best architecture based on requirements.<br />This is an important book for enterprise architects that will serve as an encyclopedia, idea book, and general resource.res, as well as the basis for comparing the strengths and weaknesses of architectures that are suitable for a specific environment.<br />I also like the first eight chapters, and chapters 11 and 12, which provide general information about enterprise architectures, definitions, and advice on how to select the best architecture based on requirements.<br />This is an important book for enterprise architects that will serve as an encyclopedia, idea book, and general resource.	2004-07-10
595183:US	53037408	R3O93MTVVZI9H6	0595267262	973416147	LDAP Metadirectory Provisioning Methodology: a step by step method to implementing LDAP based metadirectory provisioning & identity management systems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wide scope and deep content	This book not only clearly explains LDAP from technical and practical perspectives, but contains a full implementation plan with tasks and deliverables. Because the material technically accurate and highly detailed, and the implementation plan is solid this is an essential book for anyone implementing LDAP.<br /><br />The book is organized into four parts.<br /><br />Part I covers the basics of LDAP, including history, how it works at a fundamental level, and applications. Part II, Directory-Powered Systems, goes deep into details of provisioning, access controls, identity management, single sign-on, RBAC, unified messaging and specific environments (portals, supply chain, EDI, etc.). Part III is a 19-phase implementation plan that completely describes design and implementation of a solution, starting at business and technical analysis, and culminating with migration and deployment. This plan calls out tasks and deliverables, has quality gates (making good use of peer reviews at every major stage), and incorporates capacity planning, fault-tolerance and cost factors. This is one of the most well thought out, complete implementation plans for any type of project that I've encountered, and is the reason why this book is so valuable.<br /><br />In Part IV, Other Perspectives, this book addresses every obvious and not-so-obvious consideration of which you need to be aware. For example, it's characteristics of an LDAP-compliant directory, or standards are obvious (and are included), but the book also covers directories from an OO design perspective, including discussions on CORBA, .NET, J2EE, among others. I also thought the discussions of how directory services were (or will be) affected by the Patriot Act, HIPAA, and other laws, both US and European, were worthwhile additions to this book that will influence a subset of readers who are subject to various laws cited within this part of the book.<br /><br />This is an A-to-Z book in my opinion - it covers the basics, leads you into the details, and shows you how to implement LDAP using a thorough, workable plan. If you get only one book on LDAP this is the one I recommend.ds you into the details, and shows you how to implement LDAP using a thorough, workable plan. If you get only one book on LDAP this is the one I recommend.	2004-07-10
595637:US	53037408	R3T80EKPHAG6T0	0471569755	245248063	Manager's Guide to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Improving Internal Controls to Prevent Fraud	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Readable and informative starting point	I've read a number of books and literally thousands of web pages of information about Sarbanes-Oxley, and have to rank this book as the best starting point for stakeholders who are peripherally involved in compliance.  The reasons are:<br />(1) It's readable!  This is not a dry, boring tome, but a highly readable summary of Sarbanes-Oxley, what it is (and isn't), and realistic examples and anecdotes to reinforce the material.<br />(2) It covers a surprisingly lot of ground for a book aimed at a non-practitioner audience.  The Control Smart Framework, detailed advice on identifying threats and vulnerabilities, and how to protect yourself are invaluable to anyone directly or indirectly involved in Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.<br />In addition to the rich information and clear explanations of key elements of Sarbanes-Oxley I like the appendices, which also provide useful information - especially appendices B (Key Performance Indicator Reporting), C (Examples of Key Performance Indicators) and D (Control Activities).<br />This book will quickly get you up-to-speed about Sarbanes-Oxley and its ramifications, and will do so relatively painlessly compared to other books on the basics of the Act.<br />If you're looking for a more in-depth book, especially one that addresses the scope and complexity of Section 404 compliance, I highly recommend &quot;How to Comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404: Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Control (ISBN 0471653667). If you are an IT professional I strongly recommend visiting Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ASIN B00006BW74), which makes available a free 84-page document titled &quot;IT Control Objectives for Sarbanes-Oxley&quot;. For more general information, there is a commercial site that provides news and updates on Sarbanes-Oxley issues (ASIN B0000AM23N), as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (ASIN B00013Y80Y), which provides rule making information and a means to comment on proposed rules. You can reach these sites by pasting the ASIN numbers in the search box at the top of this page, selecting all products and clicking GO.You can reach these sites by pasting the ASIN numbers in the search box at the top of this page, selecting all products and clicking GO.	2004-07-10
595791:US	53037408	R1AMNPALJKONWF	0873895606	458207018	The Internal Auditing Pocket Guide	Books	5	77	78	N	N	Steps through the basics	This book is an introduction to internal auditing.  The content is relatively straightforward and generic, providing reasons for internal auditing, and a four step process for performing this function.<br />Note - this book is high-level and does not address specific auditing requirements such as those associated with Sarbanes-Oxley, or even the mechanics of financial controls.  It's all about determining either conformance or compliance (or both).<br />The four-step process encompasses:<br />(1) Identify plans (what it is that is supposed to be done)<br />(2) Observe (are people following the plan)<br />(3) Evaluate collected facts (evidence associated with the plan and observation steps)<br />(4) Report the results (findings, gap analysis, etc.)<br />Chapters 1 and 2 are basic - welcome to auditing, and getting the assignment.  The next four chapters provide the structure, approach and principles needed to perform the audit - purpose and scope, preparing for the audit, requirements and planning, and audit strategies. The final five chapters cover conducting the actual audit - initiation, data collection, process techniques/process auditing, analyzing results, and reporting and follow-up.<br />In addition to the high-level coverage of internal auditing, this book augments this information with a glossary, seven appendices providing example plans, checklists and other useful information to help understand the work product and the auditing process itself.  There is an excellent summary at the end of the appendices that give basic auditing principles.<br />This small book is a good introduction to internal auditing and will give the fundamentals in a clear, easy-to-follow manner.	2004-07-10
596066:US	53037408	R31R8WE0X2XQAK	0471483060	232370728	Sarbanes-Oxley and the New Internal Auditing Rules	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Comprehensive and clear	This book is essential reading for anyone involved in internal audits per Sarbanes-Oxley, including auditing professionals and senior management whose business or technical domains are affected (i.e., all senior managers).<br />The focus is on auditing from the practitioner's point of view, and Chapter 2 shines because it summarizes SOA and how it affects internal audit as a function and as a practice. This material encompasses relationships with external auditors and with the audit committee, which are important parts of SOA.  A further tie to the audit committee is given in detail in Chapter 3.<br />Chapter 5, 'COSO, Section 404, and Control Self-Assessments' is the heart of this book in many respects.  However, as an IT consultant I found Chapters 6, 7 and 9 more aligned to what I do - and the reason why I cited the audience of this book as wider than auditing practitioners.  For example, the inclusion of CobiT (Control Objectives for IT) in Chapter 6, Disaster Recovery and Continuity Planning (Chapter 7) and Enterprise Risk Management, Privacy, and Other Legislative Initiatives (Chapter 9) are directly or indirectly related to IT, and the information I gleaned from those chapters helped to place SOA within the context of my profession's support requirements and IT auditing.  I was also surprised and gratified to find ITIL best practices, which is an international standard for IT infrastructure management, including service delivery and service support.  Again, this information shows how far reaching SOA is, and the need for all managers to fully understand their roles and how SOA will affect the way they operate and manage their functional areas.<br />Of course, for professional auditors, the chapters on Internal Audit Fraud Detection and Prevention (8), Rules and Procedures for Internal Auditors Worldwide (10), and Continuous Assurance Auditing Future Directions (11) round out this comprehensive book.  As a non-practitioner I found it to be clearly written and, in many respects, enlightening.  The breadth of topics and the depth into which they are delved is impressive., in many respects, enlightening.  The breadth of topics and the depth into which they are delved is impressive.	2004-07-10
598208:US	53037408	R1JL2VQ84SL1RJ	0471358460	432836076	Testing Computer Software, 2nd Edition	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Excellent orientation for new test professionals	When I first read this book over eight years ago I was less than enthusiastic.  At the time I felt that the approach was not rigorous enough.  Over time I came to appreciate the pragmatism and how the approach in this book reflects the realities of software testing instead of a rigid, purist view as an unattainable ideal.<br />Everything the new or intermediate test professional needs to know is covered.  The practices and techniques provided will foster sound QA practices and will step you through developing test strategies, and from those, developing and executing test cases.  These are the real essence of testing, and this book covers them exceptionally well.<br />I like the coverage of testing systems and artifacts that are not software - documentation, hardware, and localization testing advice shows that testing is not limited to software.  As importantly, the chapter on legal consequences of software defects will show testing in a perspective that is often overlooked, even by seasoned test professionals.<br />If you are new to software testing, or have some experience, but no formal training, this book will provide you with the right way to approach software testing, and will give insights that would take years to learn on your own.	2004-07-08
598494:US	53037408	R1RJABDS16UTIH	0131111558	164242212	Agile and Iterative Development: A Manager's Guide	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Exhaustive look at proven methods	If ever there is a book that should be part of a college-level software engineering curriculum as well as carefully read by software engineering development and project managers this is it. Every major iterative development methodology is covered in complete detail, with an emphasis on Agile methods, and a solid business and technical case is provided for the general approach.<br />Why make a case for? As difficult as it may be to believe, the waterfall method is still prevalent despite the large body of literature on rapid, iterative development SDLCs.  Indeed, I have worked in environments that claimed to embrace the RUP as the enterprise methodology in principle, yet in practice projects were planned and managed using the waterfall SDLC.  Why the disconnect?  Managers were set in their ways and had no true understanding of the mechanics or value of Agile and iterative development methods.<br />This book can change that because each major approach is carefully described using the following format for easy comparison and to clearly show strengths and weaknesses:<br />Method Overview<br />Lifecycle<br />Workproducts, Roles, and Practices<br />Values<br />Common Mistakes and Misunderstandings<br />Sample Projects<br />Process Mixtures<br />Adoption Strategies<br />Fact versus Fantasy<br />Strengths versus &quot;Other&quot;<br />More importantly, these approaches are placed in the context of the benefits of incremental delivery, with clearly presented evidence of the benefits, which is provided in Chapter 6.<br />Regardless of biases or preferences, any objective reader will come away with a clear sense of the meaning of 'Agile' and the power and value of iterative development. You will also come away with a good frame of reference with which to compare your own organization's approach to development and delivery, and how to improve it.	2004-07-08
598760:US	53037408	R28MLF05UZ2XH9	0201729156	722332027	Metrics and Models in Software Quality Engineering (2nd Edition)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Second Ed. even better!	This is one of the most highly regarded books on software quality.  If you have never read the first edition it was one of the few books that covered software quality in depth, going well beyond metrics and models into strategies for achieving quality, and understanding the underlying principles and mechanics.  That edition had a lot of life left in it, but this second edition is one of the most complete rewrites of any technical book I've read in recent memory, and if you own the first edition you may want to consider retiring it and investing in this edition.<br />While the first edition packed a lot of information in 344 pages, the 560 pages that comprise this edition reflect new chapters and expanded content in the chapters that remain. Here is a list of the new chapters:<br />- Chapter 10, In-Process Metrics for Software Testing<br />- Chapter 12, Metrics and Lessons Learned for Object-Oriented Projects (in lieu of the old Chapter 12 titled AS/400 Quality Management)<br />- Chapter 13, Availability Metrics<br />- Chapter 15, Conducting In-Process Quality Assessments<br />- Chapter 16, Conducting Software Project Assessments (the project assessment questionnaire example in the appendix is a valuable companion to this chapter)<br />- Chapter 17, Dos and Don'ts of Software Process Improvement (contributed by Patrick O'Toole)<br />- Chapter 18, Using Function Point Metrics to Measure Software Process Improvement (Contributed by Capers Jones)<br />Among the new chapters I most like are Availability Metrics (Chapter 13), because of the direct tie to production, and Dos and Don'ts of Software Process Improvement (Chapter 17) because of the practical and objective advice. This book will remain, in my opinion, one of the definitive texts on software quality and is one I highly recommend.	2004-07-08
598829:US	53037408	R25RNL3AKFUM6Y	0471202835	351080646	Agile Database Techniques: Effective Strategies for the Agile Software Developer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reconciles Relational and OO DB	I fully agree with the other reviewers who have given detailed and glowing descriptions of this book and why it is an important work that addresses the real challenges of developing to a relational model in OO environments. Agile techniques are also interwoven into this book, but it is in overcoming the relational-OO challenges that I found this book to be most valuable.<br /><br />The first part of the book, \\"Foundational Skills and Knowledge\\", covers the challenges and how to meet them with eight excellent chapters that truly give the foundational knowledge. The next part, \\"Evolutionary Database Development\\", is comprised of seven chapters that introduce Agile techniques as they relate to DB development. Among the two strongest chapters in this part of the book are the ones covering DB refactoring and mapping objects to relational databases. This material, to me, clarified a lot of issues I had before reading this book. Part 3 is more focused on development techniques, with excellent information about concurrency control, access controls and related topics. The final part of the book is specific to general Agile implementation. You need not embrace Agile methods to learn an enormous amount from this book.<br /><br />If you want to know more about this book's contents you will find a great deal of information on the author's Agile Data web site (paste the ASIN, B0000A3527, into the search box at the top of this page, select All Products and click GO). I also recommend Clifton Nock's \\"Data Access Patterns: Database Interactions in Object-Oriented Applications\\" (ISBN 0131401572), which augments this book in many respects.	2004-07-08
604076:US	53037408	R1EG24A3BFRWC3	0932633382	683439664	Surviving the Top Ten Challenges of Software Testing: A People-Oriented Approach	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still valid, still useful	When this book was written software testing was starting to consolidate into an 'honorable' profession, and the number of good books about testing could be counted on your fingers (and probably a few toes).  The discipline has matured into a profession, and there are so many excellent books on the subject now that it boggles my mind.<br />You'd think that the top ten challenges listed in this book would have been long ago resolved and replaced with a new set. Sadly, that isn't the case.  Each challenge listed is as valid today as it was when this book was written, and except for #10 on the list (getting trained in testing), which has dramatically improved, the other nine are still there.  Read the book. Take the advice of the two authors, both of whom are seasoned professionals who give the solutions to these challenges, and move the profession forward.<br />Here are the top five challenges that I see today, drawn from the list in the book:<br />#1 today, #6 in the book: Communicating with Customers -- And Users<br />#2 today, #3 in the book: Hitting a Moving Target<br />#3 today, #1 in the book: Having to Say No<br />#4 today, #4 in the book: Testing What's Thrown Over the Wall<br />#5 today, #2 in the book: Fighting a Lose-Lose Situation<br />Your order may be different, but I am willing to bet that the list will be the same.  This book does give realistic solutions to these problems, so if you agree with the list, then you'll find this book valuable.	2004-07-04
604597:US	53037408	R2B76YMZSZPQQF	0849316618	18361887	Software Metrics: A Guide to Planning, Analysis, and Application	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Solid introductory text	This is among the best introductory texts on software metrics I've read in a long time. The author carefully and meticulously leads you through the basics of measurement and metrics, including some interesting views about how measurement is an integrated activity that has three distinct phases - cognitive, semantic, and quantitative.<br /><br />Key software metrics are covered, divided into simple and complex classes, and traced to quality standards and a common metrics vocabulary. This part of the book is solid and especially suited to someone who is exploring software metrics and may have been put off by the dense, overly technical approach in other books.<br /><br />Like the preceding material, the chapters on designing a metrics system and data visualization are basic, but straightforward. I especially like the three chapters on data analysis that classify metrics into frequency, time and relationship domains. This is one of the clearest approaches to cutting through the complex morass of data analysis, and will put metrics into perspective instead of overwhelming. The next chapters, covering process and estimation models were adequate in my opinion. They covered the essentials. However, the chapter on defect metrics was outstanding. I liked the complete and concise coverage of this topic.<br /><br />The remainder of the book ramped down and seemed to lack the detail or clarity that characterizes the preceding parts of the book. However, this material was more operational and not (in my opinion) as important as communicating the fundamentals, collection and analyses, or metrics classification that were so exceptionally well covered in this book. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to quickly learn the basics of software metrics.	2004-07-03
604734:US	53037408	R2ZF360WM6EDV4	0471653667	867686662	How to Comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404: Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Control	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Exceptional resource	This book does not much dwell on the details of Sarbanes-Oxley - the reader is assumed to have an understanding of the salient details - but, instead lays out a comprehensive action plan for complying with Section 404.<br />The author begins with three chapters covering the overall goals and objectives, roles and responsibilities, assessment issues, and an excellent chapter about internal control criteria. Each of these chapters ends in appendices that support the compliance initiative.<br />Milestones, covered in Chapters 3 through 7, are clearly defined with respect to what it will take, key issues, and appendices that provide examples, guidelines, checklists and other material that support compliance. I was impressed by the straightforward approach, the complete and clear identification of all issues - and especially so regarding IT, developing documentation, and testing the controls - and the fact that the control objectives were carefully mapped to the COSO Framework.<br />If you want a realistic view of the scope and complexity of Section 404 compliance this book will provide it.  If you are an IT professional I strongly recommend visiting Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ASIN B00006BW74), which makes available a free 84-page document titled &quot;IT Control Objectives for Sarbanes-Oxley&quot;.  For more general information, there is a commercial site that provides news and updates on Sarbanes-Oxley issues (ASIN B0000AM23N), as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (ASIN B00013Y80Y), which provides rule making information and a means to comment on proposed rules.  You can reach these sites by pasting the ASIN numbers in the search box at the top of this page, selecting all products and clicking GO.	2004-07-03
605238:US	53037408	RECEK31EUOU3K	1555582605	608014514	Computer Systems Performance Evaluation and Prediction	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Good introduction to techniques and concepts	This book fits between Raj Jain's seminal &quot;The Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis&quot; (ISBN 0471503363) and the more pragmatic series of books written by Menasce and Almeida.  Where it differs from Jain's book is the more modern examples, using networking, database systems and overall architectures (Jain's book was more slanted towards host-based systems prevalent when that book was written).<br />The first chapters in this book cover the basics, concepts and associated math: probability, queuing theory, stochastic processes and Petri nets.  This foundational material is clearly presented and cover all of the key elements of performance analysis (and capacity planning).  The remainder of the book applies the concepts and techniques to analyzing architectures, operating system and DBMS and network components.<br />The final two chapters cover system modeling project ideas and how to use the performance evaluator application that is on the CD ROM that comes with the book.  I haven't fully exercised this application, so will refrain from commenting on it.  It is not needed to use the book.<br />Overall, this book is sufficiently technical and detailed to give all of the essential knowledge needed for solid performance and capacity management.  If I had to choose between Jain's book cited above or this one, this is the one I'd pick because of its relevance to contemporary systems.	2004-07-03
605259:US	53037408	R1Y4JT0J6DJ8DL	1587623692	523370206	Software Agreements Line by Line: A Detailed Look at Software Contracts and Licenses & How to Change Them to Fit Your Needs	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Thorough and on target	If you develop or evaluate RFPs, acquire software, or even are involved in contracting for services this book is an essential resource.  I'll be frank about the readability - it's tough to plow through this book. The authors are terse and the writing style dense.  However, when you consider a typical license agreement, contract terms and conditions and the stilted language associated with them, if you cannot deal with the writing style in this book you'll probably find contract and license evaluation ponderous as well.<br />I like the way this book presents information and advice by starting with a typical vendor agreement, then leading you through it, line-by-line as the title implies, and explaining the implications.  It also shows how to modify each term or condition.<br />Another area I like is the chapter on software specifications and acceptance testing.  I've worked with one client after another which licensed expensive software (in some cases to the tune of over a million dollars), or application services, without performing acceptance testing. The advice on this critical part of licensing is solid and should be carefully heeded.  The chapter on maintenance and support covers another area that is too often overlooked in the acquisition process, and one that will almost certainly be important after the contract is signed.  Again, carefully consider the advice in this chapter because it addresses a critical area.  One final aspect of this book I like is Appendix A, which cross-references this book's chapters to vendor licensing provisions. This makes this book easy to use when evaluating licenses and contracts.<br />Take the time to read this book, then apply it to real world contracting and licensing and you will find yourself referring to it often.	2004-07-03
605315:US	53037408	R3OQ603VL6VF15	0471469122	334748097	The Art of Software Testing, Second Edition	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Major Rewrite for 2nd ed.	After 25 years of influencing test professionals this classic has been updated in the second edition to reflect contemporary testing challenges. Note that this review is for ISBN 0471469122.<br />The first three chapters have kept their titles, but have been greatly expanded. For example, chapter 2 now includes black- and white-box testing overviews in addition to discussions on economics and testing principles.  Chapter 3 now covers error types in addition to the original topics related to inspections and walkthroughs. Among the error types discussed are data reference and declaration, computation, comparison, control flow, and interface and I/O.<br />Test case design has been expanded, and the chapters on module and high-order testing, and debugging have been given major facelifts and much wider coverage of techniques.  The most significant changes, though, are chapters 8 and 9, Extreme Testing and Internet Testing, which truly reflect the extent of this book's update for the second edition.<br />While the update is extensive, the part I personally liked the most is in Chapter 6, High-Order Testing.  Consider these new test types, some of which were not even considered a part of testing back in 1979 when the first edition was published:  facility, volume, stress, usability, security, performance, storage, configuration, compatibility/configuration/conversion, installability, reliability, recovery, serviceability, documentation, and procedure testing.<br />This book belongs in every serious test professional's library.  I'm retiring my copy of the first edition, a book that I've used since the early 1980s, to a special place in my library reserved for classic books.  This second edition will be one of my primary testing references for some time to come.	2004-07-03
605370:US	53037408	R35IZPFR1APZHE	1903996384	527896783	The Enterprise Architecture IT Project: The Urbanisation Paradigm	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not a primary resource	Although this book describes how to design modular, resilient architectures, and does so with technical accuracy and pragmatism, it is not what I consider to be a primary reference.  It is, however, a useful resource for experienced architects and corporate libraries.<br />The approach uses urban planning as a metaphor, and is based on real case studies.  While the book is a translation from French, the text reads well - it's the metaphorical vehicle that got in my way.  I prefer bare-bones technical descriptions, so this is probably not a barrier for most readers, many of whom may appreciate the way this book is written.<br />Using the urbanization paradigm the book leads you through all of the key elements of good architecture - modularization and layering (this approach is based on a four layer reference framework), modeling and meta models, and rules. I found the focus on business requirements, roles and responsbilities and way the author links a functional architecture to a business architecture to be forward-thinking and more evidence of sound practices.<br />Following this approach you will gain a solid understanding of principles and best practices that can be used in any approach to architecture, as well as insights into how to design enterprise architectures that are resilient and robust.	2004-07-03
605442:US	53037408	R1DKJBAMYH5DTR	0849315034	556733833	Software Engineering Measurement	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Advanced combination of concept and pragmatic	This book differs from most software metrics books in that it doesn't cover specific metrics, but, instead, provides the underlying concepts, principles and mathematics, and a pragmatic approach to developing a measurement and metrics strategy.<br />The first three sections cover goals, fundamentals of scientific investigation, and measurement points within the development process.  I view the latter as akin to instrumenting software development, and the author does a good job of dividing the process into measurement domains. The next section addresses validation, using criterion, content, construct and empirical validity as attributes. This is an excellent taxonomy of validation.<br />Static software measurement (discreet metrics, such as source code and quality attributes) and derived measures (variation and complexity) covered in the next two sections provide a foundation for the discussions on metrics and modeling, specification and design attributes, and dynamic measurement.  These sections are a blend of concept and concrete examples most software engineers will recognize and relate to.<br />I liked the sections on measuring testing and availability - both of these were in areas of direct personal interest, and the information contained in these sections, especially statistical testing, were excellent.<br />The book wraps up with a section on implementing a measurement strategy, and an approach for a research plan.<br />Overall this is a book that empowers you to develop the best measurement and metrics approach for your particular environment.  It accomplishes this by providing the knowledge for understanding metrics within the context of software engineering and measurement concepts that can be employed to create a tailored strategy.	2004-07-03
605831:US	53037408	RROC0QUJY2VVX	0201737213	607890182	Software Project Management in Practice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Worth reading and heeding	This book is important for three reasons - (1) it lays out a mature, viable project management approach, (2) the approach is proven in practice (hence the title) in a large organization, and (3) it shows that by-the-numbers approaches to complex endeavors is not necessarily theory. An added bonus, if you are in an organization that is using CMM key process areas or are working on a CMM initiative, this book aligns to that as well.<br /><br />What I like is the way this book lays out the how's of project management in a complete, detailed manner, and how it takes those how's from theory to practical application by providing real cases and the author's own insights and experience. Unlike other books, no matter how well written, this one will give you the confidence that the approach can be done.<br /><br />All of the critical success factors of a well managed project and the techniques for attaining them are there - excellent planning and estimating, scheduling, execution and control practices are provided. More importantly, this book shows how quality is interwoven into the approach, as well as key metrics and how to gather, manage and use them. Since this information is provided within the context of cases and real examples, readers who are serious about managing software projects will be struck by the realism and how to apply mature processes and practices during the project.<br /><br />I also like the insights into InfoSys, which is one of the most highly respected consulting and integration firms in the world. Reading this book solely for competitive intelligence purposes is a valid reason. However, reading it to become a top software project manager who can deliver on time and schedule is an even better reason to read this book. It is one of the best written books on a discipline that is both difficult and has a spotty record when it comes to success. Following the practices in it will assure success.	2004-07-02
606768:US	53037408	RHIL4UAQ2B06C	0201844540	968525801	Performance Analysis for Java Websites	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unique and invaluable	The team of authors who wrote this book have two things going for them - in-depth knowledge of performance analysis, and, most importantly, the ability to impart that knowledge in a crystal clear manner.<br />I like the way this book starts out, showing the contrast between a bricks &amp; mortar store and its online equivalent.  This introduces the basics - throughput, transaction, page and user rates, response times and states.  More than an easy to follow introduction, it contains all of the key elements of performance analysis, doled out in easy to understand chunks, and sets the stage for the rest of the book.<br />Every facet of a typical environment is covered, including Java server performance factors, external and internal factors related to networking, load balancers, protocol behavior, and Java internals.  The chapter on performance profiles of common web sites is especially useful.  Different site types are characterized in a set format that shows caching potential (of the site type), any special considerations, and specific performance testing considerations.  This allows you to go directly to the type of site you are going to test, get the relevant information, then proceed to conduct the testing, which is covered in subsequent chapters.<br />The chapters on testing begin by showing how to develop the test plan, associated test scripts, and select the right tools to support the testing. The areas covered in these chapters are comprehensive.  Actual test execution and results analysis are covered in equal detail, using examples and scenarios.  One especially useful chapter is 13, Common Bottleneck Symptoms, which is useful to track the cause of observed results that do not match expected ones during testing.<br />This book goes beyond testing, though - it also covers capacity and performance planning, which is normally a discipline onto itself.  Again, excellent advice and coverage of key points. The appendices are an invaluable collection of templates, worksheets and checklists.<br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  It exemplifies top notch writing, is well illustrated, and is technically accurate, and based on proven approaches., worksheets and checklists.<br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  It exemplifies top notch writing, is well illustrated, and is technically accurate, and based on proven approaches.	2004-07-01
606815:US	53037408	R1T2C39ELS2P8N	3540003436	376680928	Handbook on Enterprise Architecture (International Handbooks on Information Systems)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Flexible approach to enterprise architecture	This book is a collection of articles that describe the key elements of the Generalized Enterprise Reference Architecture and Methodology {GERAM}, with each article written by an expert in a particular topic area, and the whole skillfully glued together by the editors.<br />My take on GERAM - having suffered through more approaches to architecture than I care to relate, some good and some bad, the GERAM approach is a beacon of sanity.  First, it logically and clearly divides architecture into domains, which are interconnected as follow:<br />(1) Generalized enterprise reference architecture (high-level model for integration) employs an enterprise modeling methodology that uses enterprise modeling language(s).  The language(s) are implemented as enterprise engineering tools, which are used to develop enterprise models, which are, in turn, used to design operational systems.<br />(2) Also feeding into the enterprise modeling tools are: partial enterprise models, which are supported by general enterprise modeling concepts, and directly support enterprise modeling tools.<br />(3) Finally, there are 'Enterprise Modules', comprised of processes, staff resources, and technology, which are the basis for implementing the operational system.<br />From the above, which is hard to visualize in a text description, one can see that GERAM is a pick and choose model that has a great deal of flexibility.  It's not a perfect model, but it's also not rigid, which is the reason I like it so.<br />With the context provided above, the book addresses GERAM in five parts, each of which contains relevant articles:<br />Part I Architecture Frameworks, is a well stated and illustrated of GERAM and how it maps to other architecture frameworks.<br />Part II Strategy Making and Business Planning, covers business aspects ranging from corporate strategy to developing the business model, to developing the enterprise concept and associated business plan.<br />Part III Defining the Requirements for Enterprise Change, provides a focus on modeling.<br />Part IV Developing the Master Plan, steps you through the design phase.<br />Part V consists of four case studies that reinforce the preceding parts of this book.<br />Do you need yet another architecture approach?  The answer is, it depends. I do not view GERAM as much a distinct architecture approach as much as it's an approach to architecture.  I believe that it can be applied - in part or in its entirety - to any architecture model because of the inherent flexibility.  I certainly believe that this book is an essential resource for any enterprise architect because of the way it separates key elements of an architecture.Enterprise Change, provides a focus on modeling.<br />Part IV Developing the Master Plan, steps you through the design phase.<br />Part V consists of four case studies that reinforce the preceding parts of this book.<br />Do you need yet another architecture approach?  The answer is, it depends. I do not view GERAM as much a distinct architecture approach as much as it's an approach to architecture.  I believe that it can be applied - in part or in its entirety - to any architecture model because of the inherent flexibility.  I certainly believe that this book is an essential resource for any enterprise architect because of the way it separates key elements of an architecture.	2004-07-01
607162:US	53037408	RGTIX9C9LTEAZ	011330014X	301427393	Security Management (It Infrastructure Library Series) (Part 14)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Needed for ITIL implementation &amp; exams	This is a necessary resource for either implementing the ITIL, or for anyone who is preparing for the certification exam.  The focus of this guide is on the infrastructure and operational aspects of IT, and how security relates to service support and service delivery.<br />Note that this guide does not provide guidance for an enterprise-wide security posture, nor does it cover security from the security officer's perspective.  However, the guidance provided needs to be integrated into an overall security program, and associated policies and procedures.  Another fact worth noting is this book is circa 1999.  Given the general nature of the material, though, this does not diminish the value of the content.<br />Key ITIL areas that the material in this book does address include: problem management (from the ITIL Service Support process areas), and business continuity planning, financial management, and service level management (from the ITIL Service Delivery process areas).<br />While this book's main value is to organizations implementing ITIL, or individuals pursuing certification, there is one aspect that does stand out - the way security is linked to service level agreements is an outstanding approach that is often overlooked outside of ITIL shops, and is a practice that should be incorporated in SLAs and included in service level management plans.	2004-07-01
607485:US	53037408	RUPZBB2KPKFXZ	1580536255	193207274	Practical Insight into Cmmi (Artech House Computing Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Pragmatic and filled with ideas	As in his previous book, 'Action Focused Assessment for Software Process Improvement' (ISBN 1580532861) Kasse does deep into issues and important factors without losing sight of the big picture.  His approach to the CMMI is straightforward, but he also provides context and background, and is especially cogent in explaining the differences between the older CMM variants and the integrated model.  I particularly liked the way he explains staged and continuous representation approaches, and how he leads you through choosing between the two if implementing CMMI is a goal.<br />The heart of this book, though, is the practical benefits from the CMMI and how to achieve them.  He is heavily focused on how the CMMI relates to system engineering and project-based organizations, and goes into detail about integrated teaming, project and product management.  In addition, there is a wealth of material on process improvement, quality and related topics such as requirements management. Mr. Kasse's previous books and published works are heavily slanted towards those topics, so there should be no surprise about the amount of emphasis he given them in this book. Of course, the emphasis is warranted because process improvement and quality are two key goals of CMMI, as is integrated teamwork.<br />With a plethora of books about CMMI this one stands out because of the straightforward way Kasse describes the why's and how's, and the clarity with which he discusses implementation (and its barriers).  There is no hype or hyperbole, unrealistic promises or contrived benefits - just plain talk that will give you a solid understanding of the CMMI and what it takes to implement it.	2004-07-01
607699:US	53037408	R21SURCL5X25F1	0534954251	64290024	Software Metrics: A Rigorous and Practical Approach, Revised	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Complete, wide in scope and essential	I have a large number of metrics books, including everything written by Grady, Jones, and Florac &amp; Carleton, and this is one of my personal favorites.  It not only goes into measurement theory and practice, but covers nearly every key metric associated with software engineering.<br />Instead of writing a tome about what this book contains, I'll confine my comments to what I especially like about it and why.<br />First, the measurement fundamentals, the goal-based measurement framework, and information about data collection and management alone make this book worth owning. Data collection, for example, can waste resources if you try to collect everything, or worse, don't properly manage or analyze it.  Follow the process given in the first part of this book and you'll have a solid basis for a metrics initiative.<br />Second, the scope of software engineering metrics is wide and given fairly detailed treatment. I especially like the fact that object-oriented metrics are addressed, and the multi-dimensional approach to measuring internal and external product attributes.  Moreover, the scope of this book extends to productivity and resource management, which is where development projects and lifecycle costs associated with maintenance have gaps.  Finally, the section on software reliability metrics was excellent and added yet another dimension to the coverage the authors give.<br />Overall, this book is both rigorous and practical as the title implies.  The theory and practical applications of measurement and metrics are carefully balanced, and the breadth of material ensures that coverage is complete and addresses all major aspects of software engineering.	2004-07-01
607733:US	53037408	RH96TCXE9OOG6	0750658673	381067804	Risk Management in Software Development Projects (Computer Weekly Professional)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Straightforward &amp; basic	This book is a basic and relatively vanilla approach to software project risk management. If you are well versed in project risk management, and especially if you work in the software development domain, this book will probably prove too basic.  However, if you are new to either project risk management, or how it applies to software development this book is fairly complete in its coverage and is technically accurate.<br />After introducing software risk management within the context of a development project the author provides excellent guidance for developing a risk management strategy, including roles and responsibilities, and how to identify, prioritize and mitigate or eliminate common risks.<br />The risks cited cover the full spectrum of those common to development, ranging from administrative (and legal) to technical risks.  Among the highlights of this book include documenting risks, risk reviews (a best practice), assessment approaches, tools and techniques, and how to develop and implement risk management plans.<br />I also like the checklists, process-oriented approach, and self-assessments at the end of each chapter.  This book is a good introductory text to a complex subject, and provides sound guidance plus a wealth of best practices. Seasoned software project managers will probably find &quot;Managing Risk: Methods for Software Systems Development&quot; (ISBN 0201255928) more useful because that book covers advanced techniques.	2004-07-01
607897:US	53037408	R365K9Y5GYMSAZ	1852336102	92634584	Successful IT Outsourcing: From Choosing a Provider to Managing the Project (Practitioner Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Balanced, agenda-free &amp; realistic	It's difficult to find a new book on outsourcing that maintains a neutral perspective and does not promote an agenda for or against.  This is such a book.  The author leads you through the key issues, devotes an entire chapter to the pros and cons of outsourcing with sufficient information with which to make an objective decision, then steps you through the process.<br />The process set forth in this book is straightforward. There are no innovative wrinkles, not should there be in my opinion. The tasks, completely covered in individual chapters, are:<br />- Establish objectives and parameters for outsourced services. Clarify the business drivers,  define service objectives, analyze the business case, and examine factors such as staff transfers, etc.  The business case analysis material in this book is particularly strong in that it looks at a multitude of factors.  I also like the elicitation of stakeholder views and requirements in the initial stage of the process.<br />- Choose a provider.  This is covers the RFI/RFP process, negotiations, selection and award.  All aspects of due diligence are covered in the chapter devoted to this stage.<br />- Manage performance.  There is a solid focus on service management and contract administration in this section, and is sprinkled with good advice throughout.<br />- Measure performance. This is one of the strongest sections.  The coverage is complete and customer-focused.  It is also objective and partners with the provider - one of many indications of the balanced and objective approach the author takes.<br />- Risks and controls.  This section addresses the transition to the provider, associated risks, and how to effectively use the contract as a control mechanism. Key risks and how to deal with them during the life of the contract are outlined.  This information shows the depth of experience the author has, and the advice is genuinely useful.<br />- When outsourcing fails to deliver.  This section is tied to the previous one.  It provides common symptoms, how to proactively resolve them, escalation when necessary, including arbitration, alternative dispute resolution, and litigation if necessary (and permitted by the contract).  Knowing this information in advance can help to craft contract terms and conditions that anticipate them, and protect both parties and their respective interests.<br />The book wraps up with a section on alternative supply models, such as application service providers, managed providers of storage, security and other models.  This information shows not only future trends, but may spark ideas about how to source your services in ways other than traditional outsourcing.<br />Information provided in this book will work with both on- and off-shore providers; however, be aware that there are additional issues with off-shore providers, including off-site staff, time zone differences, and perceived control.<br />A book that I recommend reading in conjunction with this one - before reading it in fact - is &quot;Outsourcing: How to Make Vendors Work for Your Shareholders&quot; (ISBN 1892606046).  It is more of a sanity check document that will cause you to think about objectives and alternatives to outsourcing before you embark on a course of action that leads to outsourcing.one.  It provides common symptoms, how to proactively resolve them, escalation when necessary, including arbitration, alternative dispute resolution, and litigation if necessary (and permitted by the contract).  Knowing this information in advance can help to craft contract terms and conditions that anticipate them, and protect both parties and their respective interests.<br />The book wraps up with a section on alternative supply models, such as application service providers, managed providers of storage, security and other models.  This information shows not only future trends, but may spark ideas about how to source your services in ways other than traditional outsourcing.<br />Information provided in this book will work with both on- and off-shore providers; however, be aware that there are additional issues with off-shore providers, including off-site staff, time zone differences, and perceived control.<br />A book that I recommend reading in conjunction with this one - before reading it in fact - is &quot;Outsourcing: How to Make Vendors Work for Your Shareholders&quot; (ISBN 1892606046).  It is more of a sanity check document that will cause you to think about objectives and alternatives to outsourcing before you embark on a course of action that leads to outsourcing.	2004-07-01
607974:US	53037408	RHWOY8XMFG2XA	9080671363	707858256	IT Service Management: An Introduction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	All you need to implement ITIL	This book is one of the most important resources for understanding and implementing ITIL because it distills the official documents into a clear description of all process areas and a roadmap to implement.<br />The first three chapters provide introductory and background material on service management and the ITIL. That done, the remainder of this book takes each process area and thoroughly explains it using the following format:<br />Introduction<br />Objective<br />The process<br />Activities<br />Process control<br />Costs and problems<br />In addition to the above, this format contains terminology and benefits associated with each process, how the process relates to other processes, and a process diagram that shows the macro and micro levels.  This is a highly effective format, and one with you can gain a full understanding of the ITIL, as well as implement it.<br />Process areas covered in this book are:<br />- Incident Management<br />- Problem Management<br />- Configuration Management<br />- Change Management<br />- Release Management<br />- Service desk<br />- Service Level- Management<br />- Financial Management<br />- Capacity Management<br />- IT Service Continuity Management<br />- Availability Management<br />- Security Management<br />These comprise the key process areas, and with the detailed descriptions and diagrams you will be able to take this information and develop a plan of action for implementation, as well as be assured that you will have a firm grasp of the ITIL at the overview and detail levels.  More importantly, the diagrams, especially the individual process diagrams, show the interrelationships between and among all process areas.  In fact, I was able to use this book to develop the architecture for a service desk application that integrated incident, problem, configuration, change and availability management. This book is that good!<br />If you need to learn or implement the ITIL this book is not only an invaluable resource, but will save a significant amount of reading time and investment over the official documents.time and investment over the official documents.	2004-07-01
608152:US	53037408	R2RUEDIHFXZXL	0113309090	786172810	Management Of Risk: Guidance For Practitioners	Books	3	1	1	N	N	ITIL-specific approach	If you are an ITIL practitioner, or are studying for certification this book outlines the approach to risk, which is especially applicable to the Service Delivery process areas related to service continuity management and availability management, as well as security management.  It also has wider applications within the ITIL processes, but those are three two where it is directly related.<br />The book covers basic principles, and defines a fairly standard risk management framework that includes identification, evaluation and countermeasures.  The material stratifies risk management at the strategic, program and project, and operational levels.  These are also consistent with the PRINCE2 approach.<br />In addition to the risk framework, processes and procedures, this book also provides a business case template, and outlines for business continuity, communications and contingency plans, plus policy and process examples.<br />Highly useful to ITIL practitioners who want complete alignment to the ITIL set of processes, but otherwise only marginally useful outside that domain.	2004-07-01
608188:US	53037408	R3985CBZUOTHCF	1892606046	436230912	Outsourcing: How to Make Vendors Work for Your Shareholders	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Essential Sanity Check	At 106 pages including the index you may be tempted to dismiss this book on a subject that other books with five times the page count fail to adequately cover.  Don't.<br />First, this is not a book on the measures of due diligence, detailed advice about vendor selection or even how to build a business case.  It is, however, a book that will put outsourcing into perspective, arm you with the right questions you should be asking yourself, your staff, and your vendors, and finally, will cut through the haze and show you a few alternatives.<br />The first chapter covers the thesis - a brief context - followed by another short chapter that defines outsourcing. Then the book delves into the essence and key issues: claims versus reality, the key issues, and the real motives. Not surprisingly, one 'real' motive is an expedient way to get rid of internal service functions with which the 'customers' are dissatisfied.  Myer counters that and a few other motives with ideas about how to regain customer focus, control priorities and otherwise how outsourcing can be avoided if the reasons are superficial and correctable. Also promoted is a hybrid solution that uses an extended staffing concept - extend the resources of an internal group with careful, selective sourcing.  I've seen this concept work well in practice, but you'd be surprised by the number of companies that do not consider this option.  Myer makes a strong case in favor, with diverse examples and alternatives.<br />As the book progresses Myer introduces a strategy, mainly aimed at management of an at risk function, to compete with vendors that provide outsourcing. The material is somewhat brief, but contains enough ideas to get you thinking.  As an aside, the ideas in this part of the book are more fully presented, and in a compelling, sensible manner, in Myer's companion book titled &quot;The Internal Economy&quot; (ISBN 1892606186). The final chapter addresses insourcing - going in the opposite direction - and is as thought-provoking as the other chapters.<br />The book is a quick read, but each page will evoke thoughts, ideas and help to place outsourcing in its proper context.  Think of it as a decision-aid, and as a way to cut to the key issues.  Regardless of whether or not you ultimately decide to outsource, you'll do so with solid information and an objective approach.s thought-provoking as the other chapters.<br />The book is a quick read, but each page will evoke thoughts, ideas and help to place outsourcing in its proper context.  Think of it as a decision-aid, and as a way to cut to the key issues.  Regardless of whether or not you ultimately decide to outsource, you'll do so with solid information and an objective approach.	2004-07-01
608246:US	53037408	R1AUQHLRKUQ7LA	0672319837	152860334	Software Testing	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Good first book for new testers	When I read a book that introduces software testing I do a bit of mental testing by asking the following questions:<br />- Does the book give a solid approach?  This one does.<br />- Does it introduce bad habits or sloppy procedures?  Nowhere in this book.<br />- Could I trust the approach if I were a test manager and my team used this book exclusively as a reference?  Yes.<br />Ron Patton has written a solid book for new testers, both those who are entering the discipline by choice and those who are thrown into it. The big picture describes the importance of testing, what can happen if testing is not properly done, and how testing fits within the development and software delivery process.  This material is one of the best introductions to testing I've read, and it gives the new tester a view of how important his or her role is - and this is especially important for folks who have been thrown into testing.<br />The material on black and white box testing is solid, as are the chapters on practical application. I especially liked the scope of testing scenarios and how to perform the test, which range from configuration testing to usability testing. This part of the book is more complete than many other books for beginning and intermediate testers because it includes localization, compatibility and even documentation testing scenarios.  This is one of the reasons why I would completely trust the approach in this book if I were managing a test team that used only this book as a reference (assuming, of course, they used it completely).<br />If you're an intermediate or experienced test professional this book will be too basic.  However, if you are new to the discipline and want to quickly get up to speed this book is an easy read and promotes solid practices.	2004-07-01
608337:US	53037408	R185JAVK0NYC2E	0471927465	366628699	Making Software Development Visible: Effective Project Control (Wiley Series in Software Engineering Practice)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Virtually timeless	After recently reading &quot;Change-Based Test Management&quot; (ISBN 0971786127) I had a nagging feeling that some of the concepts seemed familiar.  After racking my memory, I pulled this book off my shelf, dusted it off and read it again after owning it for nearly 14 years.  The authors of &quot;Change-Based Test Management&quot; may or may not have read this book, but their approach is similar (but not quite the same) as what is presented in this book's Chapter 4, which is devoted to product quality.<br />In addition to the chapter on product quality giving an approach that is still viable today, this book wraps that aspect of a software development project into a much larger process that links together today's best practices in application delivery and project management.<br />The first chapter introduces the basic concepts that will be given in subsequent chapters, which come at a brisk rate starting with Chapter 2, which covers estimating, work breakdown structures, and quality target attainment planning.  The next chapter gives techniques for project control.  I was a bit disappointed that earned value was not included, but since that technique was mainly within the domain of US DoD and their contractors when this book was written the oversight is understandable.  The techniques for resource and budget management given in this chapter are exceptionally effective in their own right.<br />Chapter 4 - the material that originally jogged my memory - contains advice that is as fresh today as it was when this book was written. It is driven by metrics, and more importantly, is based on the same change- and validation-based concepts as the newer book cited above.  Chapters 5-7 are my favorites because they address support, process visibility and maintenance.  Rare is the book that gives more than a page or two to support and maintenance.  This book covers these important topics in great detail in two chapters. The final chapter is about implementing project visibility (control) mechanisms, with excellent material on metrics, replanning, costs, and end-of-project reviews.<br />One nice thing about out-of-print books that are still valuable is you can usually obtain them at bargain prices. This one is a wise investment if you manage software development projects and want a quality-driven approach to project control.ity (control) mechanisms, with excellent material on metrics, replanning, costs, and end-of-project reviews.<br />One nice thing about out-of-print books that are still valuable is you can usually obtain them at bargain prices. This one is a wise investment if you manage software development projects and want a quality-driven approach to project control.	2004-06-30
608391:US	53037408	R2IRE57GQ2XROB	0113308663	356081483	Applications Management: Itil (It Infrastructure Library Series)	Books	3	29	29	N	N	Weakest of ITIL series	This ITIL guide is the weakest of the series because the approach is outmoded with respect to contemporary development life cycles.  The chapters address the following key areas and follow the older waterfall SDLC:<br />(1) Requirements<br />(2) Design<br />(3) Build<br />(4) Deploy<br />(5) Operate<br />(6) Optimize<br />The latter three milestones - deploy, operate and optimize - spill over into service management covered in the Service Delivery and Service Support guides in the series. In that respect this guide does provide a comprehensive picture of applications delivery, and service and support delivery.<br />If you are pursuing ITIL certification you will need this guide, despite the shortcomings I noted because the material will be part of the exams.  However, if you are only exploring ITIL as a viable framework for your organization I would bypass this book unless/until you decided to actually implement ITIL and/or pursue certification.	2004-06-30
608474:US	53037408	RHJ2X324JWCRR	0070412197	281564984	Quality Improvement Tools & Techniques	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Encyclopedia + cookbook	I keep this book nearby because it serves as an encyclopedia of quality techniques that span the full spectrum, as well as a step-by-step guide to using each of the tools listed.<br />The entire collection of tools contained and described within are put into context in the first chapter that covers the continuous quality improvement story and its five steps - reason, current situation, analysis, action plan and results.  Subsequent chapters are devoted to classes of tools:  the basics (flow charts, check sheets, facts vs. inference, and how to construct tools such as Pareto diagrams, histograms, and control charts).  Supporting tools, covered in the next chapter, include pie and bar charts, frequency charts, Likert scales and related diagrams.<br />Basic quality improvement techniques given in the next section go beyond just tools, and include vision and mission statements, group interaction techniques, problem classification and concepts.  Among the tools are development charts, force-field analysis, checklists.<br />Advanced techniques, covered in the next chapter address process ownership, and some fairly substantial tools such as quality function deployment and Taguchi techniques, both of which are explained well in a surprising few pages.<br />The remainder of the book discusses quality improvement systems, such as JIT, ISO standards; and brief bios of Deming, Crosby and Juran and their approaches.  Selected readings on various quality standards round out this book's treatment of the subject.<br />What I like about this book is the way a large number of topics and associated tools are thoroughly covered in a relatively short book.  I also like the way you are clearly led through the construction and use of various charts, and how to effectively use tools in a step-by-step manner.  This is clearly a useful introduction to quality tools and techniques, as well as a desk reference.	2004-06-30
608599:US	53037408	R1H3X0UVUJ4VWB	0966124839	525554897	Practical CM III: Best Configuration Management Practices For the 21st Century	Books	5	15	15	N	N	PDM-centric approach	This is Lyon's third CM book and an extension of his Practical CM (ISBN 0966124820). The key differences between the two books is this one is more focused on engineering development and reflects more of the author's ideas.  The first book was more influenced by MIL-STD-973 and the related EIA standard 649.  This one does not conflict with those standards, but does take a more real world approach, with a distinct focus on product management. In fact, there is more similarity between this book and Lyon's &quot;Transparent CM&quot; (ISBN 0966124804), especially in the detailed documentation of best practices versus current industry practices, and the in-depth treatment given to each stage of CM.<br />It is in the detailed descriptions of the phases, and how they relate to product development, that makes this book an especially valuable resource to anyone working in the PDM/PLC environment.  Each phase - identification, control, status accounting and auditing - are covered widely and deeply, with best practices associated with each clearly identified and explained.  Different scenarios add depth to this aspect of the book.<br />Two areas covered, transition to production and support, are unique to most CM books that either gloss them over, or focus on, for example field changes and product configuration, but do not devote as much coverage to these areas as they merit in the real world. The coverage of software and firmware was a bit lite in my opinion, especially since most products have one or both as integral parts, but there are a wealth of other books that cover those topics. It is interesting to note that this book's processes do align to SEI's CMMI process areas for configuration management.<br />Some of this material is carried over from the other two books, and there is definite overlap between the Transparent CM coverage here and his book devoted to that subject.  It does serve as a nice binding and segue between this book and the one on Transparent CM.<br />Like Lyon's other books, this one is a definitive text on CM and an important addition to the body of knowledge.ke Lyon's other books, this one is a definitive text on CM and an important addition to the body of knowledge.	2004-06-30
608679:US	53037408	R1QORCK59DHJRV	0321125215	454381651	Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Remarkable advice and approach	If the advice and the underlying processes and procedures outlined in this book are followed any software engineering process or lifecycle approach will be dramatically improved. Note that the material in this book is as applicable to agile methods as they are to heavy approaches, including the still used waterfall SDLC.<br /><br />Why five stars? Because this book peels off the layers of what is wrong with development, discarding them and replacing them with alternatives that promote communications among all stakeholders, placing design into its proper context, and provides the glue that binds subject matter experts from business and technology domains into a cohesive team using the same language and pursuing the same goals. On the surface this seems like common sense, but in practice, it is rarely done. Indeed, the lack of the ingredients given in this book on most projects is the reason why so many projects fail or are cancelled, and why there exists today a real disconnect between IT and the business. Following this book, implementing the practices, and managing to them will make a world of difference in the success rate of any organization, large or small.<br /><br />I like the copious examples to illustrate the technical concepts, and especially chapters 9 (Making Implicit Concepts Explicit) and 14 (Maintaining Model Integrity) because these are two areas in design that I've observed to be potential failure points - the first because too often wrong assumptions are made and locked in, and the second because models sometimes take on a life of their own and morph into unintended things.<br /><br />This book emphasizes a number of critical success factors, including knowledge, communication, control and vision. If the material is approached as merely an intellectual exercise then you'll probably be dissatisfied with the book. If, on the other hand, you are genuinely seeking a solution to a high project failure rate or disconnect among stakeholders, and are willing to do what it takes this book will provide a blueprint for success.g to do what it takes this book will provide a blueprint for success.	2004-06-30
609082:US	53037408	R3SER4E26Y4BX7	0113309430	49389459	Software Asset Management (It Infrastructure Library Services)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Surprisingly relevant	I am no fan of the official ITIL documents, considering them to be a necessary evil that will assure the correct information when taking certification exams or ensuring that you implement ITIL correctly.  This book is an exception because it dispenses with the heavy emphasis on theory and generalism that characterize the other books in the series, and gives an actionable approach to implementing and maintaining software asset management processes and procedures.<br />Coverage of all of the important aspects is solid.  It provides a pragmatic and realistic approach to making a business case for software asset management, defines clear roles and responsibilities, and defines key processes. These processes include verification, compliance and strategies for license management, and how to implement them.  There is a section on tools and technologies, but this is somewhat weak (although the material on tool selection is solid).<br />Additional material includes business case templates, sample asset management policy and asset data management considerations.	2004-06-30
609170:US	53037408	R1USPFJIXS2LO6	0113308779	464456151	Planning to Implement Service Management (IT Infrastructure Library)	Books	1	54	59	N	N	Can be safely ignored	Most of the books in the official ITIL series are required reading if you are implementing or pursuing ITIL certification. This one can, in my opinion, be safely ignored.<br />The key theme of the book is promotion of the ITIL and its benefits, and a high-level overview of implementation issues.  The areas covered include: describing the ITIL vision, helping you to determine your 'As Is' posture and your 'To Be' per the ITIL.<br />It also provides a roadmap to get from 'As Is' to 'To Be', checkpoints, and advice on how to maintain momentum during the implementation. This guide also gives an example cost-benefit analysis supporting for service management process implementation, a process maturity framework, and a glossary of terms.<br />A more detailed book that will easily supplant this one is &quot;IT Service Management: An Introduction&quot; (ISBN 9080671347).  It contains all of the information that this book provides, plus an in-depth look at each of the ITIL's key process areas, how they relate to one another, and better implementation advice.	2004-06-30
609294:US	53037408	R2AUUJKK8UMI5R	0113308655	391371236	Ict Infrastructure Management (It Infrastructure Library Series)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Generic guidelines supporting ITIL	This is one of the more general books in the official ITIL series.  It is more a generic framework that addresses specific infrastructure areas than a collection of key processes.  Areas covered include:<br />- Network Service Management<br />- Operations Management<br />- Management of Local Processors<br />- Computer Installation and Acceptance<br />- Systems Management<br />Most of the above areas tie directly to ITIL process areas that are detailed in the Service Support and Service Delivery guides in the series.  For example, there are direct ties to computer installation and acceptance, and the configuration, change and release management processes in Service Support.  Another example is the alignment of network service management to key processes detailed in the Service Delivery guide.<br />If you are pursuing ITIL certification this is the official guide covering infrastructure and is a recommended resource for passing the exam. A related book that augments (but will not supplant) this one, and one I highly recommend, is &quot;Impacting Business: A Simple Model of IT Management&quot; (ISBN 0972983163).  The infrastructure management approach given in that book is a viable and consistent method that will fit within the official guidelines.	2004-06-30
609302:US	53037408	R2WXF1BUKTMRIX	0967602300	722154953	House of Quality (QFD) in a Minute	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent introduction to QFD	I routinely use QFD and have always cited Cohen's &quot;Quality Function Deployment&quot; (ISBN 0201633302) as the best reference on this powerful technique.  The problem with Cohen's book is that the pace, detail and depth quickly causes someone wanting to learn the basics to throw up their hands.  This excellent guide, on the other hand, is one of the clearest, beginner-friendly introductions to QFD I've come across.<br />The main reasons I like this book include the fact that it does not skim over the hard stuff, such as analytical hierarchy process - an absolute necessity for effectively using QFD - and the way the author breaks down the key elements of QFD into manageable chunks that make learning it easy.  I especially like the fact that this book does such a complete job of describing a complex subject in approximately 100 pages.  That alone is no small feat.<br />All of the essentials are covered - capturing the voice of the customer, correlation, benchmarking, and how to use QFD in common scenarios, such as product development, strategic planning, and advanced uses such as concurrent engineering and in conjunction with SPC.<br />The best thing I can say about this book is, because it makes learning QFD easy, and does so the right way, it advances this technique and will make it more mainstream.  For that I congratulate the author, and highly recommend this book as the starting point.  As an aside, if you use Visio for business or technical diagrams that product ships with a QFD template that will make it not only easy to follow the examples in this book, but to jumpstart your use of QFD in realworld settings.	2004-06-30
609347:US	53037408	R2AWXPODQO0U94	0201633302	769430612	Quality Function Deployment: How to Make QFD Work for You	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the most comprehensive QFD books	If I had to select a single book about QFD this is the one.  It so thoroughly covers this effective technique, down to nuances, that I would have to refer to at least five other books on QFD I own to get the same coverage.<br />For a complete beginner chapters 1 and 2 cover the what and why of QFD. However, this material is somewhat brief and the following chapters may be overwhelming if you are learning about this technique for the first time.  As an aside, if you are using Visio, there is a template for QFD that ships with that product.<br />The remaining 17 chapters lead you through fundamental aspects of QFD (Chapters 3 through 11), starting with an overview of the seven TQM tools, and leading you through the basic planning matrix, technical response, relationships, correlations, benchmarks and targets.  Part III, Chapters 12 and 13, tie QFD to product development and its associated lifecycle, and how it relates to marketing, engineering, sales and service.<br />Chapters 14 through 17 provide a detailed, step-by-step approach to using QFD, starting with planning and data/information gathering, and culminating in developing and analyzing results.<br />The final section of the book covers advanced topics, including four-phase models, complex matrices of matrices, and special applications that include strategic product planning, and organizational planning, among other topics. I found the chapter on how to apply QFD to software development particularly interesting since that is what I do for a living.<br />I have a number of QFD books and actively employ this technique, and this is the definitive book on the topic I recommend.	2004-06-30
609549:US	53037408	R3567CA79X9WP2	0113300158	822298778	Service Support (It Infrastructure Library Series) (Part 15)	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Official guide to 6 key ITIL processes	This is the official guide to service support, covering:<br />(1) Service Desk<br />(2) Incident Management<br />(3) Problem Management<br />(4) Configuration Management<br />(5) Change Management<br />(6) Release Management<br />Recommended if you are pursuing ITIL certification because this is the official guide, or wish to invest in reference material for a shared library when implementing ITIL.  The service delivery topic is well covered from theory and practical perspectives, and the interrelationship between and among process areas are clearly depicted.<br />If you are merely exploring the benefits of the ITIL or want a condensed reference I recommend instead that you look at &quot;IT Service Management: An Introduction&quot; (ISBN 9080671347), which covers the six service support processes in sufficient detail to gain a solid understanding of them and what implementing them entails.  Another resource I highly recommend is ITIL Community Forum, which you can reach by pasting the ASIN number B0002FP9PO into the search box on this page, selecting all products and clicking GO.  This site has a link to an open source version of the ITIL documentation that is evolving, but contains good descriptions of many of the key process areas.	2004-06-30
609559:US	53037408	R15XFP4KHXSLXH	0471266566	306066069	Measuring Business Interruption Losses and Other Commercial Damages	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Unintended benefits	I discovered this book after reading &quot;A Guide to Forensic Testimony&quot; (ISBN 0201752794), which is aimed at IT professionals.  I had little interest in being an expert witness, but have been a witness in litigation and wanted to better understand the process.  In my quest for another book I came across this one, and benefited from two levels - (1) I learned even more about rules of evidence, and expert testimony, and (2) discovered a methodology for computing values associated with business interruptions that have some potential to meet requirements of Rules 104(a) and (e), and 703 [Federal Rules of Evidence].<br />First, the material related to evidence and expert testimony - this book covers qualifications, expert roles and advice to the expert, and expert reports and admissibility of evidence with respect to economic, accounting and damages experts. More importantly, the author provides excellent advice on using experts from multiple disciplines, which is prudent given the complexity of measuring business interruption losses.  The material about this aspect of the book is not only consistent with the book I cited above in general terms, but also went much deeper, and completely addressed the issues and factors associated with the subject from a legal point of view.<br />The second aspect of this book, the methodologies for analyzing loss attacks the problem from multiple angles, which can be aggregated or tailored to the legal theory of a particular case.  The angles include an economic framework for the lost profits estimation process, and how to conduct a business interruption loss analysis.  The book goes into more depth with a comprehensive description for conducting an industry analysis, especially with respect to relating overall industry growth to the plaintiff's growth, and in-depth chapters on projecting lost revenues and cost analysis and profitability. The methodologies alone or in total are complete, and should meet and Rule 104(a), (e), or Rule 703 test (i.e., &quot;Daubert&quot; issues).<br />Unintended benefits from this book came in the methodologies. I am an IT consultant who specializes in service management, which encompasses business continuity and system availability, among other things.  The methodologies, I discovered, can be as easily applied to a proactive approach to determining cost of system unavailability of company-critical systems as they can be in determining after-the-fact losses.  This allows realistic impact analyses that show costs, trade-offs and affects on the loss of critical systems. Not so coincidently, this same data can be used in court to show prior due diligence if loses do occur based on third-party breaches of contracts or warranty issues.  More importantly, even though this book was written before the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the methodologies given in this book can be used to validate compliance with certain sections of the act, most notably 404 (also, to a degree, 302, 409 and 906).<br />Overall, this book is one of the best professional investments I've made - and the reasons for it are purely serendipitous.le 703 test (i.e., &quot;Daubert&quot; issues).<br />Unintended benefits from this book came in the methodologies. I am an IT consultant who specializes in service management, which encompasses business continuity and system availability, among other things.  The methodologies, I discovered, can be as easily applied to a proactive approach to determining cost of system unavailability of company-critical systems as they can be in determining after-the-fact losses.  This allows realistic impact analyses that show costs, trade-offs and affects on the loss of critical systems. Not so coincidently, this same data can be used in court to show prior due diligence if loses do occur based on third-party breaches of contracts or warranty issues.  More importantly, even though this book was written before the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the methodologies given in this book can be used to validate compliance with certain sections of the act, most notably 404 (also, to a degree, 302, 409 and 906).<br />Overall, this book is one of the best professional investments I've made - and the reasons for it are purely serendipitous.	2004-06-30
609729:US	53037408	R26ZOGP0KLZCMX	0113300174	272911771	Service Delivery (It Infrastructure Library Series) (Part 17)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Best of official ITIL guides	Among the official guides this one stands out as the most detailed and practical.  Most of the official guides are, in my opinion, essential only if you are pursuing certification, but this one goes beyond the essential minimums by providing practical information about the five key process areas in more depth. The areas covered are:<br />(1) Service Level Management<br />(2) Financial Management for IT Services<br />(3) Capacity Management<br />(4) IT Service Continuity Management<br />(5) Availability Management<br />As in all books in this series this one covers the theory, practical and implementation perspectives, as well as the relationships between and among key process areas.<br /><br />Another resource I highly recommend is ITIL Community Forum, which you can reach by pasting the ASIN number B0002FP9PO into the search box on this page, selecting all products and clicking GO.  This site has a link to an open source version of the ITIL documentation that is evolving, but contains good descriptions of many of the key process areas.	2004-06-30
610035:US	53037408	R1KKNU8NBFFS0J	0201752794	815130489	A Guide to Forensic Testimony: The Art and Practice of Presenting Testimony As An Expert Technical Witness	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Leads through a legal minefield	After reading this book - more than once, I might add, I came away with a few impressions:<br />(1) Law and the legal domain are as logic-driven as the IT profession for which this book is written.<br />(2) What may make perfect common sense to a non-legal professional is not necessarily in line with the legal view.<br />(3) The scope of this book goes far beyond how to present forensic testimony as an IT security professional.<br />The authors establish a context for what it means to be an expert witness, and the basics (testimony, key cases to lay groundwork, and illustrating examples).<br />By chapter 4, Understanding the Rules of the Game, you may find yourself mired down in more detail than you think necessary; however, it is within the morass of details where you'll start to see the complexity of the legal process.  And complex it is. The dissection of key cases, how experts made a difference (either way), and cited cases that show how the law is evolving are necessary background information for any IT professional, either as an expert witness, as a plaintiff, or as a defendant.<br />If you do wind up in court as a witness (expert or not) in a security, contract or other case (criminal or legal), turn to chapters 9 (testimony), 11 (demeanor and credibility), and 12 (non-verbal communication). These will quickly prep you. If you are going as an expert witness I advise you to cram, especially every chapter starting with Chapter 5.<br />Who else should read this book?  Any IT professional who is involved with contracts, quality, consulting, or product development.  Chances are you may wind up in court at some point, and this material is as applicable in many cases to anyone called as a witness as it is to expert witnesses.<br />While this book is not easy to plow through, and the details may seem to fine-grained or to overwhelming, it will prepare you for your day in court.	2004-06-29
610284:US	53037408	R1T6AKSX93X9YX	1892606178	889752676	The Building Blocks Approach to Organization Charts	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A building block itself	The ideas and approach given in this book, and other recent ones from the author, started with concepts outlined in his &quot;Structural Cybernetics&quot; (ISBN 0964163519).  In addition, this book is also the keystone for &quot;RoadMap: How to understand, diagnose, and fix your organization&quot; (ISBN 0964163527), and &quot;The Internal Economy&quot; (ISBN 1892606186), which are the capstones on a structured and practical approach to building and maintaining a cost-effective, customer-focused organization at the enterprise or department level.<br />Basic concepts are provided in the first thirteen chapters, each of which is filled with clear definitions to give context, and examples to reinforce the concepts.  Highlights of this part of the book include a succinct description of what an organization is, what constitutes a healthy organization, and what I call organizational anti-patterns - symptoms and examples of unhealthy organizations and practices that any reader will recognize from their own workplace.  This material also leads you through the basics of building a solid organization by showing how to properly align functions, close gaps, and eliminate barriers.<br />The building blocks presented in chapters 14 through 19 provide a framework and five essential functions that need to be structured within the framework - technologists, service, coordinators, consultancies and auditing.  At first glance these do not seem to fit all organizations, but as you read through the detailed definitions of each you'll discover that they, in fact, do - they may go by different names, but the functions are present.  The important point Meyer makes is these areas are not distinct functions on an organization chart, but need to be carefully grouped and aligned.  How that is done is covered in chapters 20 through 22, which show how to diagnose your structure, design the optimum high-performance structure, and the domains in which functions will be bounded.<br />Discussions of high-performance teamwork and how to implement a restructuring are provided in the final five chapters.<br />In total, this short (less than 100 pages of main text) book provides a realistic approach to building a viable organization.  Throughout are best practices, such as involving lower level stakeholders in the development of the organizational structure, advice on how to adapt this approach to small organizations, and clear definitions of key concepts.  There is also a strong focus on leadership (versus just management), teamwork, and focusing to customers and business goals.  Even without reading Meyer's other books this one will greatly influence how you go about organizing or reorganizing your company or departmental structure.  With his other books, however, you will have a well designed blueprint for success.high-performance teamwork and how to implement a restructuring are provided in the final five chapters.  <br />In total, this short (less than 100 pages of main text) book provides a realistic approach to building a viable organization.  Throughout are best practices, such as involving lower level stakeholders in the development of the organizational structure, advice on how to adapt this approach to small organizations, and clear definitions of key concepts.  There is also a strong focus on leadership (versus just management), teamwork, and focusing to customers and business goals.  Even without reading Meyer's other books this one will greatly influence how you go about organizing or reorganizing your company or departmental structure.  With his other books, however, you will have a well designed blueprint for success.	2004-06-29
610308:US	53037408	R3K4VV9UCL9Y25	0875846327	409588717	Value Migration: How to Think Several Moves Ahead of the Competition (Management of Innovation and Change)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Insightful and influential	I discovered this book during a business trip to Phoenix in 1996, and it still occupies a space on my special shelf of books that have deeply influenced me.<br />As the most basic level the concept of value migration is business design, and the ability of that design to evolve in a dynamic market. The simple map of where your business, which is a function of design, is summed up in three states:  value inflow, stability or outflow.<br />At a more complex level, this book provides seven patterns that serve as markers to show how value can migrate from one business (or industry) to another. The final part of this book shows how the concepts and patterns can be applied in your own business.<br />The foregoing may erroneously give the impression that this book is heavy on concept and lite on practicality.  It's not. The material is meticulously presented, reinforced by recognizable examples drawn from industries, and prescriptive measures are laid out with realism and pragmatism.  The concepts are what have influenced me. After reading this book I've looked at certain industry trends differently, and after eight years my observations bear out the premise of this book.  This is highly actionable information that is invaluable to any company that wants to prevent the outflow of value, while capitalizing on stability and finding ways to create inflow.  A more recent book that meshes nicely with this one is &quot;The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model&quot; ISBN 1576751678. In fact, that book extends this book in many ways, especially with respect to business design, and further proves the concepts Slywotzky set forth in this book in 1996.	2004-06-29
610582:US	53037408	R38YTKZAVLXUUA	0964163500	660530299	The Information Edge	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Little known gem	I recently finished reading Nicholas Carr's controversial &quot;Does IT Matter?&quot; (ISBN 1591394449).  Carr's book make some valid points about the state of IT, but seemed to fall short when it came to describing how to rectify problems.  This book, written nearly a decade earlier, does describe how to rectify the problems Carr cited.  In fact, it is almost as though the authors wrote this book in anticipation of Carr's book!<br />Meyer and Boone clearly outline how to employ information technology to achieve competitive advantage. Their approach is based on value-added benefits, how to identify them, and how to implement the right systems to attain them.<br />This book comprises fifteen chapters divided into five parts.  Part 1 introduces terms and definitions that will be used throughout the book, as well as the concept of value-added benefits.  If you assume the information is too fundamental and skip this part you will probably approach the rest of the book with an imprecise understanding of terms and concepts.  Part 2 is a collection of cases and ideas that address basic business processes, and how the value-added benefits are derived in each domain, which include: selling, marketing, operations, HR, finance, rolling out products, and negotiations.  Each scenario is realistic and well developed.  The conclusions, ideas and benefits are both realistic and compelling.  There are no gaps in logic or required leaps of faith here.<br />Part 3 covers information tools at the executive/senior management level. Like the preceding chapters, this one provides context, key benefits, and an approach to attaining benefits.  Also like the preceding chapters, this part of the book uses cases and examples from real life.<br />Up to this point the authors have proposed a concept and gave examples of how this concept can be applied, making a compelling case.  In Part 4 the concept is transformed into an actionable implementation plan. There are four steps, (1) planning for strategic systems, performing a value-added needs assessment, measuring benefits, and adopting the value-added perspective.  There is no consultant voodoo here - the steps are clearly articulated, reinforced with examples, and are supported with facts and numbers.  Three of the four appendices expand this material by providing needs assessment and measurement interview guides, and expected values.<br />If you've read Carr's book cited above and are at a loss as to where to start resolving IT deficiencies, read this book.  Next, visit the author's web site (paste the ASIN number, B0002EUOU0, in the search box on this page and select all products), and also explore the following other books by Mr. Meyer: &quot;RoadMap: How to understand, diagnose, and fix your organization&quot; (ISBN 0964163527), &quot;The Building Blocks Approach to Organization Charts&quot; (ISBN 1892606178), and &quot;The Internal Economy: How to Apply Market Principles within Organizations to Make Sense of Budgeting, Rate-Setting, Project-Approval, and Accounting Processes&quot; (ISBN 1892606186).rategic systems, performing a value-added needs assessment, measuring benefits, and adopting the value-added perspective.  There is no consultant voodoo here - the steps are clearly articulated, reinforced with examples, and are supported with facts and numbers.  Three of the four appendices expand this material by providing needs assessment and measurement interview guides, and expected values.<br />If you've read Carr's book cited above and are at a loss as to where to start resolving IT deficiencies, read this book.  Next, visit the author's web site (paste the ASIN number, B0002EUOU0, in the search box on this page and select all products), and also explore the following other books by Mr. Meyer: &quot;RoadMap: How to understand, diagnose, and fix your organization&quot; (ISBN 0964163527), &quot;The Building Blocks Approach to Organization Charts&quot; (ISBN 1892606178), and &quot;The Internal Economy: How to Apply Market Principles within Organizations to Make Sense of Budgeting, Rate-Setting, Project-Approval, and Accounting Processes&quot; (ISBN 1892606186).	2004-06-29
610765:US	53037408	R3CJX62Z6FM9GA	0971786127	595969193	Change-Based Test Management: Improving the Software Validation Process	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting and workable approach	You need not change your existing testing process to accommodate the central ideas from this book - the method of managing testing can be bolted onto most standard approaches.<br />The keys to change-based testing are:<br />- prioritization and delta testing<br />- validation<br />- layered testing (from regression at the least complex level, to structural performance, to certification and standards testing at the most complex level and when appropriate)<br />Delta testing - focusing on changes in the code or product base - is the essence of this approach and from where the title was derived.<br />Validation, which follows verification, is another key component.  Note that verification is assuring that all requirements are included, and validation is assuring that they correctly function. This means that testing begins early in the life cycle, at the requirements and design stages where it is significantly less costly to remove a defect than in the test phase. This also expands the scope of most testing organizations, and makes it more akin to SQA than testing.  The differences are not so subtle.  Although not directly stated in the book, as the additional elements of change-based testing are bolted on, defect removal efficiency (a key metric indicating test effectiveness) can be replaced by defect density metrics which identify where in the life cycle a defect was introduced.  This leads to process improvement opportunities that will strengthen the entire development process.<br />The validation cycle is a 5-step process as follows:<br />Step 1: Planning<br />Step 2: Test Development<br />Step 3: Test Execution and Monitoring<br />Step 4: Measuring<br />Step 5: The Feedback Loop<br />Subsequent chapters go into detail about test design, test plan development, management of the testing process and test execution and results monitoring. The book ends with an excellent information about measurement, team organization and automation issues.<br />I stated in the beginning that this approach could be bolted onto an existing testing process, which it can; however, it can also be used as the main testing process if you are starting a test organization from scratch.  At the very least you will gain some excellent ideas from this book.ng that this approach could be bolted onto an existing testing process, which it can; however, it can also be used as the main testing process if you are starting a test organization from scratch.  At the very least you will gain some excellent ideas from this book.	2004-06-29
610908:US	53037408	R3S69QW0ACXKHP	0974391204	595288134	Project Procurement Management: Contracting, Subcontracting, Teaming	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Complete and valuable PM resource	Quentin Fleming is best known for his expertise and published works in the earned-value project management domain.  However, he is also deeply experienced in procurement management, and has an impressive body of published work in that specialty as well.  This book evidences his expertise, and is one of the most succinct guides on the subject I've read.<br />Among the reasons I like this book are:<br />- excellent material on teaming arrangements and subcontractor management. These areas can make or break an engagement, ruining the reputation of the prime and/or subcontractors. The approaches and advice provided will get you around the pitfalls.<br />- the chapter on selecting the proper contract type distills information scattered across sources ranging from FAR to niche books and other publications. Having the strengths and weaknesses of all possible contract approaches in one place is reason enough to get this book in my opinion.<br />- managing procurement risks is given in-depth treatment.  Everyone from contracting officers to project managers to functional area experts will get something from the chapter devoted to the topic. The related chapter on legal aspects of project procurement is another strong point of this book.<br />The book covers the spectrum of procurement, mainly from the customer's perspective, but ample information is given about provider viewpoints. More importantly, this information is consistent with the PMI Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) and the six related processes (procurement planning, solicitation planning and solicitation, source selection, contract administration and closeout).<br />This is more than a glossed-over summary, or for novices - it contains information that even the most seasoned procurement specialist will find useful, and should be in the reference library of every project manager.	2004-06-29
611275:US	53037408	R3B9GG72QX7YH	0321165810	706472424	XQuery: The XML Query Language	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Concepts &amp; Practical Programming	Too many development books are slanted towards either concepts or practical, in-the-trenches development.  This book manages to balance both by giving not only the what's and why's, but the how to's, and does so in a readable and highly credible manner.<br />The discussion about why Xquery instead of Xpath, XSLT or even direct access through another programming language shows both the strengths and some weaknesses of Xquery.  This discussion extended into documents, databases, the state of the Xquery specification, and culminated in a essential types, and types you will not need.  This is both conceptual and practical.<br />For the developer who wants to get up-to-speed with (or refine skills in) Xquery, this book goes deep into every facet, using concepts, concrete examples, and code.  More importantly, the author's extensive experience is shown in Chapter 11, which covers problem areas and common points of confusion.  This short chapter will prove invaluable to new developers. I also liked the chapter on query optimization, and the rich reference material in the appendices, which is almost half of this book.<br />If you want to learn Xquery, hone existing skills, or step back and see the big picture this book is the best one in my opinion. Expect in-depth technical information, and expect it to be provided by someone who understands developers and provides the code to make it real.	2004-06-29
613052:US	53037408	R2Y8MLE2IAU8E7	0966124804	178338683	Transparent CM: How to Get There (Configuration Management)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Extends ideas from author's earlier book	Mr. Lyon's earlier book, &quot;Practical CM&quot; (ISBN 0966124820) is the foundation of this work, which extends the approach - in the author's own words - to presenting 'unique methodology for a successful evolution from today's CM practices to best CM practices, then on to the implementation of a truly automated CM system in order to reach the ultimate goal of transparent CM.'<br />This book accomplishes that goal in every respect.  After a chapter giving an overview of CM, the seeds of this approach are planted in the chapter titled, &quot;Transition From Current CM Practices to Best CM Practices&quot;. A clear approach, based on the product data management approach within the CM discipline, is given.  Included are a distilled list of best practices, and flow charts of the associated process.  Chapters 3 and 4 cover a proposed PDM system in great depth. The requirements are outlined in sufficient detail to both gain a full understanding of the scope of the system, as well as to layout a fairly high-level system diagram if you were to build such a system in-house.  Since building a system is probably not cost-effective for most organizations, Chapter 5 extends the requirements by giving advice on how to evaluate tools and vendors, and to select the best solution within constraints.<br />Chapters 6 and 7 describe the evolution from automated CM to transparent CM, which is the focus of the book.  These are followed up with a final chapter that ties of loose ends by addressing the people dimension.  Appendices A (List of Best Practices) and B CM Plan outline are invaluable, as are the documents on the accompanying CD ROM.<br />This is an outstanding book for advanced CM practitioners, especially those who have read and liked the author's earlier book, and/or those who are seeking to improve an existing, stable CM process.	2004-06-27
613578:US	53037408	R2VGEN13QE5HF8	0971540101	321067170	Software/Firmware Configuration Management	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Primer on the basics - focus on concepts	Although this book is filled with examples the material is more slanted towards concepts than practice.  It is also applicable to a much wider scope of configuration management than just software or firmware because the content is based on the DoD and older MIL standards governing configuration management.  These standards, many of which have been superseded by IEEE/ANSI standards within the Department of Defense, cover hardware configuration items as well as software - and these are covered within the book as well.<br />Despite the basis of the material this book does an excellent job of explaining configuration management in the large, and drilling into details associated with each element.  The author provides a well written overview, including the benefits of configuration management (and the pitfalls of not employing it).  He also thoroughly covers each of the key elements (identification, control, status accounting and auditing).<br />I like the presentation of the material, which follows a set format for each element - definition, what it means, where it begins and recommendations.  The material is brought to life with realistic examples and anecdotes, and all of the essentials are clearly communicated. I also like the final section, which shows how configuration management, as a discipline and as a process, can be scaled down to small companies and groups.<br />If you are new to configuration management this book is probably one of the best starting points with which to gain a full understanding of what it is, what it entails, and why it is important. Don't expect how-to information, such as managing branching, product lines or other topics normally associated with configuration management, but do expect to clearly see the big picture and associated details.	2004-06-27
614297:US	53037408	R1DGA1MWEIRANS	0387951318	664399939	Practical Software Testing: A Process-Oriented Approach (Springer Professional Computing)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Advanced text, introduces TMM concept	This book contains material that is (or should be) familiar to software testing professionals. What makes it unique is how this material is cast into a framework, based on the SW-CMM, for software testing.  Before describing the contents of the book some background is in order.  The author is one of the driving forces behind the testing maturity model (TMM), and the foundation and evolution can be found in back issues of CrossTalk Magazine (accessible via the web).  Specifically, she and coauthors published a series of articles in CrossTalk titled &quot;Developing a Testing Maturity Model: Part I (August 1996), Part II (September 1996) and &quot;A Model to Assess Testing Process Maturity&quot; (November 1998).  This early material is excellent and well developed, and this book is a culmination and refinement of those early ideas.<br />Much of this book is based on IEEE standards and documentation, which have been refactored into the TMM.  The book starts by introducing testing as an engineering activity, then segues into fundamentals, a chapter titled &quot;Defects, Hypotheses, and Tests, and two chapters covering test case design.  This material is fairly standard fare as standalone chapters, although the latter two chapters are among the best treatment of test case design I've come across.<br />Within the context of the TMM the chapters on levels of testing, test goals, policies, plans and documentation (completely based on IEEE standard 829-1983), and the testing organization are core topics. Operational topics of the TMM are discussed in the chapters on controlling, monitoring, evaluating and the testing process; reviews as a testing activity, and measurement. Two chapters I particularly liked were &quot;Evaluating software quality-a quantitative approach&quot; and &quot;Defect analysis and prevention&quot;, each of which bridges software testing and SQA.  The final chapter ties together the book by describing the TMM and the associated test process assessment.<br />This book is for advanced practitioners and testing professionals who are working in mature organizations.  It is not a book for new or intermediate software testers, although it would make an excellent college level text to introduce students to process-oriented testing approaches.br />This book is for advanced practitioners and testing professionals who are working in mature organizations.  It is not a book for new or intermediate software testers, although it would make an excellent college level text to introduce students to process-oriented testing approaches.	2004-06-26
617641:US	53037408	R3052RJEF53S3U	0471569739	452817525	Essentials of Balanced Scorecard	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Cuts to the chase - practical approach	I've read a number of BSC books, from Kaplan &amp; Norton's original classic, to later works, and this is one of the very few that goes into practical implementation and management of a balanced scorecard.<br />What makes this book better than the others I've read is the way the author points out the pitfalls as well as the advantages of implementing and using this tool.  He is objective and, more importantly, experienced, which is evidenced by how he places the BSC in context.  This context is shown in the gap he uncovers between strategic themes, mission/vision/values, competencies, and purpose, and initiatives, objectives, measures and targets.  The BSC fills that gap - if properly done and all of the key factors are understood.<br />I liked the way this book uncovers subtle key factors, such as the differences between strategy and operational effectiveness (often mistakenly viewed as the same thing), and what you should and should not be measuring.  I also liked the way strategic themes were defined as a concept, as well as the use of tool called a paradox map to verify the alignment of tasks to strategy.<br />The bulk (and value) of this book is the implementation plan, which is governed by six critical success factors necessary to implement a BSC. It is here that the book shines because the implementation is laid out as a project (in fact, one of the six CSFs is to treat the implementation as a project), and is achievable with no non-value added steps.<br />If you want to gain an objective view of balanced scorecards and their value, and a pragmatic approach to implementing one, this book is the one I recommend.	2004-06-23
618160:US	53037408	R1GAQANREVBTKP	0932633552	198277668	Five Core Metrics: The Intelligence Behind Successful Software Management	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Evolution and refinement of earlier work	The authors have impeccable credentials in the software estimating discipline, with Putnam's experience dating back to his breakthrough approach using Rayleigh curves to model staffing developed in the early 1970s, and Myers as his coauthor and collaborator for three earlier books from which this one is roughly based and represents a distillation and refinement of earlier ideas.<br />Material in this book is not done justice if you go solely by the table of contents.  It contains deep thought and a wealth of information that support the five core metrics proposed.  After introductory material in the first chapter, this book picks up pace by going into what the authors consider to be the right metrics and why. They follow this discussion with a chapter that shows how they align to a development lifecycle (using the RUP's inception, elaboration, construction and transition phases as a framework).  This is followed by two chapters that address the five metric areas, time, effort, quality, workload and productivity, and sizing.  Chapters 7 and 8 address productivity and reliability as they relate to the metrics.<br />I liked the material in the final chapters the most because it takes the concepts in the first eight chapters and applies them to problem spaces such as project control, requirements management, trade-off analysis, and how to use estimates to formulate accurate bids. This material is practical and reflects the real world.  Among my favorite chapters are 15 (Replan Projects in Trouble), 17 (Evaluate Bids on the Facts), and 21 (Metrics Backstop Negotiation).  However, each chapter in between was also on the mark and credible.<br />If you are immersed in an unmanageable morass of metrics and want to manage to a smaller set of key indicators in projects or maintenance this book is an essential resource. If you are using Ad Hoc metrics or none at all, this material is an ideal starting point.	2004-06-23
618798:US	53037408	R1IVR2JAFIHERC	0201485427	973455666	Software Assessments, Benchmarks, and Best Practices	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Comprehensive and supported by data	Jones is a master at data collection, distilling it, and drawing supportable conclusions. Like his other books (especially Estimating Software Costs, ISBN 0079130941), this one is wide in scope and deep with data and techniques.<br />He begins with background material on software process assessments, comparing his company's technique to SEI's, and correlating the two.  Note that Jones' approach predates the one developed by SEI and was first published in his 1986 book &quot;Programming Productivity&quot;, ISBN 0070328110.  This book is a natural extension of that earlier work.<br />The next part of this book is an exhaustive survey of benchmarks and baselines, including pitfalls and an interesting discussion on activity-based software benchmark data.  This material is a lead-in to 36 key factors that Jones identifies, including software classification, project-specific, technology, sociological, ergonomic, and international factors.<br />Subsequent chapters address best and worst practices, process improvement, and benchmarks and best practices for various software classes and development approaches, including internal IS, outsourced development, systems, commercial, military and end-user software development and delivery. Each class is treated in a comprehensive manner and the findings are well supported.<br />This book is an ideal resource for any organization wishing to establish a baseline before implementing initiatives such as CMMI, SPICE, etc.  More importantly, much of this book is as applicable to the SEI assessment approach as it is to Jones's SPR methodology.  I also recommend using Software Program Managers Network (ASIN B0001M00RA)in conjunction with this book (paste the ASIN number in the search box at the top of this page to reach it).	2004-06-23
619176:US	53037408	R2KNV6WF874IA0	0201728877	726256402	Making the Software Business Case: Improvement by the Numbers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent approach that will work	This book is the aggregation of Mr. Reifer's extensive experience in software management and economics of reuse. His earlier books, &quot;Practical Software Reuse&quot; (ISBN 0471578533), and &quot;Software Management&quot; (ISBN 0769511007) evidence his experience, and probably account for the realistic approach he takes in this book.<br />Despite his technical background he takes a business-focused approach early in this book by explaining the difference between business and technical cases.  Too many technical managers confuse the two, and this plus the other material in Chapter 1 explaining the fundamentals of business cases will set you on the right course.<br />Chapter 2 is the essence of this book, with advice on relating goals to metrics (using the Goal/Question/Metric technique), and the development and alignment of business cases to development life cycles.  This is followed by two excellent chapters covering principles, rules, and analysis tools, and strategies. Much of this material is standard fare, but Mr. Reifer's clear explanations are better than most books that cover this material.<br />The second part of the book employs case studies that lead you through the development of a business case using principles, concepts and techniques given in the first part of the book.  These reinforce part one of the book, as well as provide clear examples of business cases that work, and the process with which to develop them - including challenges, how assumptions were derived, and other nuances of which you should be aware.<br />The final part of the book is a single chapter on overcoming major barriers, and the sage advice is well worth heeding.<br />Overall, this is one of the best books on business case development because it is business-oriented, has an approach that is financially and tactically sound, and is written for technical-oriented managers in their own language.	2004-06-22
619513:US	53037408	RCM7M3H5IYB7G	0471430218	469114730	The Web Testing Companion: The Insider's Guide to Efficient and Effective Tests	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Take the title literally	This book is overshadowed by &quot;Testing Applications on the Web: Test Planning for Mobile and Internet-Based Systems&quot; ISBN 0471201006, which is one of the most highly regarded in the testing community.  However, that does not mean this book is without merit.  On the contrary, the rich content of the appendices, which comprise a significant portion of this work, make it an ideal companion to the aforementioned book.<br />Another point in this book's favor is that it is basic enough and structured to make it an ideal text for a course on web testing.  The author did an excellent job of describing good practices in web testing and covering the basics.  She also provides a good deal of sage advice on careen matters, which a more technical book will overlook.<br />I found the chapters on server-side testing accurate and clear enough for new test professionals to completely follow.  The chapters on performance and security testing were reasonably complete, and the chapters on client side were as well and clearly written.  I also like the author's objectivity - she works for Microsoft, but did not emphasize that company's technologies or processes over standard industry practices.<br />As a supplement to a more technical book, such as the one I cited above, or as a text in a basic web testing course this book shines. It is not the definitive reference, but is worth reading if for no other reason than to have the appendices nearby as a ready reference during test cycles.	2004-06-22
619569:US	53037408	RUR1GJ8CV5V94	0079130941	193244009	Estimating Software Costs (Software Development Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Still valid and applicable, with some gaps	This is one of the most comprehensive books on software estimation techniques and supporting statistics in print.  True, this book is deficient in object-oriented estimation, but that gap is filled by the definitive text on that subject, &quot;Object-Oriented Design Measurement&quot; ISBN 0471134171.<br />One thing the author is noted for is backing up assertions with statistics and data.  This book is no exception.  The full spectrum of estimation techniques is covered in great detail, and the scope of this book starts with background material on estimating, and then addresses all of the major techniques.<br />It is the scope of this book that makes it so valuable six years after publication.  Techniques drawn from software project management, methods using coefficients and adjustment factors (i.e., COCOMO and Rayleigh Curve), and function points are covered in detail, as are other methods.  In addition to software development estimating, the coverage extends to documentation estimating, and maintenance estimating - two areas not commonly addressed in the same detail and depth into which this book goes.<br />Weighing in at 700 plus pages this book is still applicable to most project and development environments, with the only outdated material related to tools and information resources.  Most of the techniques cited are tried and true and will work in most contemporary environments and settings.<br />Despite some of the shortcomings noted above this book is an essential resource for project managers and SQA professionals who are involved in either the estimating process or tracking key performance metrics throughout application and system lifecycles.	2004-06-22
619925:US	53037408	R3OIRF0T30N8QX	0130266922	112193205	Software Cost Estimation with Cocomo II	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Superb resource + tool	I was first introduced to the precursor of CoCoMo II when I ftp'd a whitepaper on estimating from the old decwrl site maintained by DEC in the mid 1980s. That led me to Boehm's seminal book, &quot;Software Engineering Economics&quot;, ISBN 0138221227.  Over time CoCoMo started to show its age, especially in environments with heavy GUI development, so I opted for function points as my sole estimating technique. With experience I discovered that technique alone was useful for estimating scale, but was weak on sizing estimates.  Version II of CoCoMo rectifies this, and this book is an exhaustive description of software cost estimating in general and CoCoMo version II in particular.<br />The contributing authors to this book read like who's who in software estimating, and the contents of this book will not only get you up-to-speed on using CoCoMo II as an estimating tool, but will also explain its inner workings, how to calibrate it, and its inherent strengths and weaknesses.  Among the parts of this book that I found especially useful are Chapters 2, Model Definition, and 4, Calibration. These are the keys to understanding and using CoCoMo II to its best advantage. Real world examples are given in Chapter 3, and emerging extensions and future trends provided in chapter 5 and 6 round out the body of this book.<br />Significant added value is provided in the appendices and on the accompanying CD ROM.  The appendices include how to use CoCoMo II in environments ranging from the older waterfall SDLC, RUP, incremental and iterative development, and give project planning considerations and data collection templates.  The CD ROM itself contains a full working copy of the 2000 version of USC COCOMO II, complete documentation, and data collection forms, and trial copies of commercial versions of the application.<br />This book is one that every serious project manager, software engineer and cost estimator should read and keep in their work area.	2004-06-22
619990:US	53037408	RPJTQZZ3JTQU1	0321150783	818520423	Lean Software Development: An Agile Toolkit	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Not just for Agile Development	Although this book is from the Agile-series, the approach and advice extends to any methodology from the heavy (and still used) waterfall SDLC, to XP and agile methods.<br />Key steps in this book will show you how to streamline your development methodology in accordance with lean thinking:<br />- Eliminate waste by cutting the fat out of processes, reducing rework, viewing your SDLC as a value stream.<br />- Amplify learning, with an emphasis on iterative planning, feedback loops and team communications.<br />-  Decide as late as possible, which is enabled by concurrent activities, depth-first versus breadth-first problem solving, and other effective tools and techniques.<br />- Deliver as fast as possible, based on analogies between manufacturing pull systems and scheduling, and how to accomplish the same in development.<br />- Empower the team, which is a fundamental element of lean thinking.  The tools and techniques presented in this section of the book are a mixture of common sense, leadership and management.<br />- Build integrity in.  If ever there were a direct connection between the lean thinking approach to manufacturing and software development, it is here.  Tools and techniques given include model-driven development, refactoring and testing techniques.<br />- See the whole, which emphasizes system thinking, metrics, optimization, and the supporting tools and techniques.<br />Any or all of the above can be effectively applied to any SDLC or methodology and produce results.  Lean thinking was developed by Toyota as a manufacturing paradigm, which has been extended through that company and is applied to business processes outside of the manufacturing domain.  That this team of authors has applied it to software development is not as unnatural as it may seem at first glance given how vastly different software is to create versus cars, for example.  But, the paradigm has been proven outside of manufacturing before this book was written, and the basic philosophy and principles can be applied - which this book evidences.<br />If you want to look at development from an entirely unique perspective purge the words agile, XP and any other methodology from your mind while reading this book.  I can almost guarantee that you'll find something in every chapter that you can put to immediate use in your own organization. As an aside, a book on software testing that is consistent with lean thinking in many ways, and closely aligned to the content of this book is &quot;Software Testing Fundamentals: Methods and Metrics&quot; ISBN 047143020X.ciples can be applied - which this book evidences.<br />If you want to look at development from an entirely unique perspective purge the words agile, XP and any other methodology from your mind while reading this book.  I can almost guarantee that you'll find something in every chapter that you can put to immediate use in your own organization. As an aside, a book on software testing that is consistent with lean thinking in many ways, and closely aligned to the content of this book is &quot;Software Testing Fundamentals: Methods and Metrics&quot; ISBN 047143020X.	2004-06-22
621166:US	53037408	R3ET1ESFCG8O0O	047139470X	357825263	Testing Applications on the Web: Test Planning for Internet-Based Systems	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Superseded by a better second edition	When industry leaders such as Cem Kaner and Bret Pettichord extol the virtues of this book you can be assured that it is great - everything they and other reviewers have said is on target.  Moreover, you'd be hard-pressed to walk into the testing area in any company and not see a copy of this book on someone's desk.<br />That said, instead of this book you should get the second edition, which is a major rewrite, and also expanded in scope to include testing mobile systems.  This edition is titled, &quot;Testing Applications on the Web: Test Planning for Mobile and Internet-Based Systems&quot; ISBN 0471201006, and is everything others have said about this first edition - and more!<br />Even with a better second edition, this book deserves the five stars I gave it because of the influence it has had on the testing profession.  Moreoever, this first edition is not out-of-date, and is still a great book if you don't need information about testing mobile web systems at this time (although it's a safe bet you will in the future).	2004-06-21
621188:US	53037408	R15BAQ32IEA2RM	0974358428	805193411	Web Analytics Demystified: A Marketer's Guide to Understanding How Your Web Site Affects Your Business	Books	5	25	25	N	N	One of the top books on the subject	I've read the 'classics' by Sterne and Inan, as well as some other good and bad books on web analytics, and this one is among the best.<br />What I especially like is the way each approach to analytics is thoroughly examined, and the strengths and weaknesses objectively discussed. Some books are dogmatic in their approach, locking the reader into the author's view of analytics.  This one differs by giving readers enough information with examples, clearly articulated factors, and other identified best practices to accept compromise solutions based on budget, level of in-house expertise and other considerations.<br />Another aspect of this book is the way the author cuts through ambiguous terminology that is rampant in the web analytics discipline, which does demystify.  The comprehensive discussion of tools, classified by type, is another area where this book shines. There is too much vendor hype that promotes fear, confusion and doubt, and this book cuts through the hype and uncovers what is and is not important, as well as sets realistic expectations.<br />Using the same comprehensive approach as in other parts of this book, the author covers metrics in great detail. This is, afterall, the essence of web analytics, and the thoroughness and scope of metrics make this book an invaluable resource.<br />If you need to learn web analytics, select tools to support it, or are a practicing web analytics analyst this book is one which should be on your desk - and given to other team members and stakeholders.  It raises the bar in books on the subject and is destined to become a classic.	2004-06-21
621380:US	53037408	R3MBIHHXKEOQT5	0873895215	295462523	Fundamental Concepts for the Software Quality Engineer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent material for CSQEs (and candidates), and QA pros	Before describing this book, I want to clarify what this book is and is not.<br />It is: background material for candidates pursuing ASQ's Certified Software Quality Engineer, practicing CSQEs, and members of the software quality profession who may or may not be interested in becoming a CSQE.<br />It is NOT: the principle resource for studying for the CSQE exam, which is based upon the ASQ Software Quality Engineer Body of Knowledge.<br /><br />What this book contains: twenty articles that comprise this compendium are aligned to the eight Software Quality Engineering Body of Knowledge topic areas:<br />(1) Standards, Principles, and Ethics<br />(2) Quality Management<br />(3) Software Processes<br />(4) Project Management<br />(5) Measurement<br />(6) Inspection and Testing<br />(7) Audits<br />(8) Configuration Management<br />The articles are primarily drawn from ASQ's Software Quality Professional magazine, of which this book's editor is editor-in-chief.  Among recognizable names of some of the contributing authors - all of whom have published books in their respective areas of expertise - are: Watts Humphrey, William Florac and Anita Carleton, Tom Gilb, Dorothy Graham, and Tim Kasse.  All of the other authors are experts in their respective fields as well, which is reflected by the uniformly high quality of writing and knowledge imparted by each of the articles.<br />I like the careful selection of articles, and the way they are aligned to the Software Quality Engineering Body of Knowledge.  Each goes to the heart of the topic area, and also augment the body of knowledge by providing real-world views.  Although this book is not intended to be the official study guide for the CSQE exam, the material will certainly reinforce the body of knowledge and better prepare candidates for the exam.  For practicing CSQEs this book will provide a handy reference of realistic applications of the body of knowledge on the job.  For others in the software quality profession - from testing professional to SQA analysts and engineers - this book gives a solid framework of the profession as a whole. The knowledge and experience imparted by the authors is invaluable.ofessional to SQA analysts and engineers - this book gives a solid framework of the profession as a whole. The knowledge and experience imparted by the authors is invaluable.	2004-06-21
621852:US	53037408	R3EZWP7HFB7R42	0262012103	570711768	A Semantic Web Primer (Cooperative Information Systems series)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Excellent introduction	Readers will need a basic understanding of formal logic in order to get the most from this book.  Also realize that some material, such as the discussion and presentation of monotonic and non-monotonic rules are still hotly contested in the semantic web community.<br />This book starts out with an excellent introduction in Chapter 1, titled &quot;The Semantic Web Vision&quot;.  It next begins building towards the basic elements of a semantic web by starting in familiar territory - structured web documents in XML. Many readers will be intimately familiar with this material, but I recommend reading it because the authors lay a solid foundation for subsequent chapters here.<br />The components and concepts of the topic are then covered in chapters devoted to:<br />- Describing Web Resources in RDF, which includes basic ideas, XML-based syntax, schema, and querying.<br />- Web Ontology Language (OWL), which introduces the OWL language, examples and future extensions.  Appendix A contains Abstract OWL syntax, which augments this chapter.<br />- Logic and Inference, covers monotonic and non-monotonic rules, syntax, rule mark-up in XML and examples.  This chapter will require an understanding of formal logic, and I also recommend additional research on the web regarding the debate about using non-monotonic rules, which has highly vocal proponents and detractors.<br />- Applications, a chapter of case studies from real companies, including Audi, and material on how semantic web concepts can be applied to E-learning, web services and other scenarios.<br />- Ontology Engineering (ontology is synonymous with taxonomy) using manual and semi-automatic methods. There is also an excellent discussion about reuse.<br />The web site that supports this book is rich in content that will not only augment the book, but greatly expand it.  Each chapter has an associated page on the site containing PowerPoint presentations, PDF documents, and other material.  The site also has a section for errata, problems and quizs if you are basing a course on this book, and additional links to resources related to the material in the book., problems and quizs if you are basing a course on this book, and additional links to resources related to the material in the book.	2004-06-21
622102:US	53037408	R1805X0KUUUNOY	0932633587	738746060	Best Practices for the Formal Software Testing Process: A Menu of Testing Tasks	Books	5	7	8	N	N	For mature organizations	First, this book is not primarily for software test and QA professionals who are working in 'typical' organizations.  As noted by others, the approach this book provides is best suited to organizations that are at least at CMM level 3.  Moreover, unless software engineering practices across the organization are mature the approach will probably fail.  However, that does not prevent even a Level 1 organization from selecting best practices and tasks set forth in this book and applying them.  The net result will be an incremental improvement, and may be the catalyst for larger improvements with a small win.<br />That said, this book is invaluable to mature organizations that are committed to software engineering at the defined, managed or optimizing levels of maturity.  It distills formal test practices drawn from a variety of sources and the author's experience into a succinct, process-oriented guide.  The model itself is presented in IPO (Input-Process-Output) diagrams that start at a high level to describe the process itself, and drill down into successive levels of detail in level 2 and 3 IPO diagrams.  This process-oriented structure gives a great deal of clarity to a complex set of processes that touch all milestones in any SDLC.<br />I like the fact that the model proposed is not rigid, but can be tailored to development life cycle approaches ranging from waterfall to agile approaches.  Chapter 8 gives advice on how to accomplish the tailoring without breaking the integrity of the process.  I also found the appendices useful, especially Appendix B (preferred practices) and the plans and templates provided, and Appendix C (testing processes evaluation questionnaire).<br />If your organization is pursuing CMM level 3 or above, or are contractually required to have a formal software engineering process or process capability, this book will address the software testing process areas of a larger initiative. However, do not overlook some of the small wins a chaotic organization can achieve by using many of the ideas in this book.rganization can achieve by using many of the ideas in this book.	2004-06-20
622168:US	53037408	R1OUEPDUV2ZFMZ	1591401402	227835374	Strategies for Information Technology Governance	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Rich compendium with wide scope	The collection of essays that comprise this book cover the full spectrum of IT governance thought and practice.  There is no single prescriptive approach to IT governance set forth in this book, but instead, approaches that address a single facet of governance, which can be used as a resource for ideas and practices.<br />There are fourteen essays grouped under the following topics areas:<br />- IT Governance Frameworks<br />- Performance Management as IT Governance Mechanism<br />- Other IT Governance Mechanisms<br />- IT Governance in Action<br />Among the most thought-provoking (in my opinion) essays are: Assessing Business-IT Alignment Maturity, Measuring and Managing E-Business Initiatives through the Balanced Scorecard, Technical Issues Related to IT Governance Tactics: Product Metrics, Measurements and Process, and Governance in IT Outsourcing Partnerships.<br />Major standards are also addressed (see the essay titled, &quot;Governing Information Technology through COBIT&quot;).  My only disappointment is there was no contributions by Peter Weill or Jeanne Ross, both of whom have coauthored an excellent book on IT governance titled &quot;IT Governance: How Top Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results&quot; ISBN 1591392535. Overall, this is an outstanding book for senior management who are crafting an IT governance strategy.	2004-06-20
622184:US	53037408	R1VMXSXBQRCJ7S	0471457930	855934727	CIO Survival Guide: The Roles and Responsibilities of the Chief Information Officer	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Follow the path to success	I have a single quibble with this outstanding book, and that is the title, &quot;CIO Survival Guide&quot;, implies a reactive approach, while the book is totally focused on a proactive approach that will assure the success of any CIO who follows Schubert's excellent advice.<br />From the first pages, where the new CIO is given ten key questions to ask the CEO to establish his of her role with clarity, to the steps to build a functioning IT organization that is aligned to business imperatives, this book is on target every step of the way.<br />In a nutshell, Schubert leads you through relationship building, how to lead as well as manage, prioritization and resource management, and strategy formulation and decision making. These are critical success factors for any CxO position, but are too often lacking in CIOs.  By following the advice on gaining a focus and unifying business and technology competencies you'll establish yourself as a valued member of the CxO team.  More importantly, the advice provided in Chapter 4, Connecting IT to Value Creation, is not only the true key to success, but is the key to proving the value of IT to business - this is the one area where most CIOs and their IT organizations fall short, yet Schubert manages to distill all you need to know in a single chapter.<br />This is the best book I've read on the roles and responsibilities of a CIO. Too many books on this subject are more about small-to-medium businesses and focus too much on managing technology instead of managing to shareholder value and business operation support.  I strongly recommend this book as a primary reference, and also recommend &quot;CIO Wisdom: Best Practices from Silicon Valley&quot; (ISBN 0131411152), which is a collection of articles by successful CIOs that nicely augment this book.	2004-06-20
622299:US	53037408	R369ZLG6BQYVGW	0321193660	96005573	Secure Architectures with OpenBSD	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent book, somewhat misleading title	Before buying this book you need to understand a few facts about it:<br />- at first glance the title may lead you to believe it's about securing OpenBSD - it's not. It is about using an inherently secure operating system, OpenBSD, to its best advantage.<br />- you will need to be an experienced UNIX or Linux (or ideally OpenBSD) system admin to get the most out of the content.<br />- it is intended to be used in conjunction with OpenBSD man pages; as noted by another reviewer this book aggregates a lot of OpenBSD documentation, making it a convenient reference.<br />Because OpenBSD is more than a little different from other *NIX variants, and because it is cantankerous with respect to installation and configuration, the material in this book will save a lot of time and reduce the learning curve for anyone migrating to the OpenBSD environment.  Reasons for this migration include the enhanced security by default and the inherent stability of this operating system.<br />Chapters 3, 4 and 5 are good places to start to get up-to-speed in OpenBSD because they thoroughly cover installation, basic use (especially with respect to the not-so-standard filesystem layout), and basic default services. All of Section II is essential reading for those new to OpenBSD. Among the topics covered are user admin (almost identical to other *NIX variants), pre-compiled third party software packages (unique to OpenBSD, especially with respect to ports tree), and other administrative tasks and operations. Section III, advanced features, is also essential and will greatly reduce the learning curve.<br />Overall this is an exceptionally well-written book that covers everything you need to know about OpenBSD from installation, and administration maintenance perspectives.	2004-06-20
622301:US	53037408	R3IFC8FSUJD1Y1	0750675934	197264949	Realizing the Promise of Corporate Portals	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Refreshing book on overhyped subject	I've read one book after another about attaining a viable knowledge management solution using corporate portals, and was left wanting because the books either required great leaps of faith or were little more than marketing hype.  This book closes all of the gaps between theory and practical application, and backs up assertions with a wealth of case studies that prove the connection between the goal (KM) and the means (portals).<br />In the first part of the book the authors address knowledge management and portals at the conceptual level.  The second part is comprised of case studies that fully support the concepts by showing how results were achieved in a large number of corporate settings.  Each case is a study in specific goals and objectives unique to companies that embarked on KM initiatives, and are diverse enough to overlap with your own goals and objectives.  The important material covers barriers, how they were overcame, results and how they improved business operations.<br />The authors are subject matter experts who come across as credible and factual, and the content of this book is accurate and hype-free.  I like the way they place KM and portals within the context of business objectives, and the way they impart their extensive knowledge and experience in the areas of KM and portals.  It's obvious that they are writing from the trenches, and equally obvious that they maintain an objective view throughout the book.  Another aspect of this book that I like is how carefully they chose and documented the case studies. Each goes to the essence of concepts in the first part of the book, and clearly show that KM can be effectively achieved through correctly designed and implemented corporate portals.  It's worth noting that Appendix B, &quot;Technical criteria to select a corporate portal platform&quot;, is an invaluable tool for readers who are seriously considering an implementation.<br />If you only read one book about corporate portals this is the one I highly recommend.highly recommend.	2004-06-20
622537:US	53037408	RRW53LCHJWWXN	1558608303	354753837	Maintaining and Evolving Successful Commercial Web Sites: Managing Change, Content, Customer Relationships, and Site Measurement (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Practical, real-world advice from an expert	This is the second book I've read by Mr. Friedlein that shows his extensive experience and ability to clearly impart realistic advice (his other book is &quot;Web Project Management: Delivering Successful Commercial Web Sites&quot;, ISBN 1558606785).<br />What sets this book apart from others is the way he focuses on two critical aspects of web site maintenance, (1) change management, and (2) content management.  Whereas there are a number of books that address content management, this is the first I've read that goes into detail about change management. Many books mix the two, and fail to emphasize the criticality of change management on site reliability and availability.  These two parts of the book alone warrant reading it.<br />There are two additional parts of the book that provide unique insights into critical success factors of web site management and evolution, which are customer relationship management, and site measurement.  Whereas the first two parts deal with behind-the-scenes maintenance, these deal with business aspects, which do need to continuously evolve if a commercial site is to provide revenue in a highly competitive environment.<br />The part on customer relationship management starts with a primer on CRM to assure that readers understand a much-hyped topic. It then goes into how to achieve success factors by addressing  understanding your users, personalization, community building, and customer service.<br />Site measurement, the final part of the book, is also detailed and filled with advice.  Topics include: an overview titled, &quot;Promises and Challenges of Web Site Measurement&quot; and chapters on  evolution of E-intelligence, measurement approaches and techniques, and reporting and analysis. This part of the book wraps up with chapters on how to improve a web site and tackling a web site measurement project.<br />Like his first book (cited above and which I highly recommend), this one is essential reading for anyone working with commercial web sites. The author, in my opinion, is one of the most savvy experts who has unique insights in all aspects of web site project and management.  This book is yet another achievement and contribution to the body of knowledge by Mr. Friedlein.cial web sites. The author, in my opinion, is one of the most savvy experts who has unique insights in all aspects of web site project and management.  This book is yet another achievement and contribution to the body of knowledge by Mr. Friedlein.	2004-06-20
622841:US	53037408	R2BMQBWAGFH64I	0750676868	831911014	Breakthrough IT Change Management	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Solid path through a political minefield	Changing IT is akin to herding cats because as a whole there is a legacy mindset at one end of the spectrum, and lack of discipline at the other.  This book provides a workable approach to changing the culture and effecting real change.<br />As in their other books the authors take a project-oriented approach to the goals and objectives.  Where other books that attempt to address this subject are focused on solely human factors and considerations, this one does that, but gives a structured approach as well.  The set milestones and wealth of associated checklists are what set this book apart from others, and are the means of systematically changing IT in an effective manner.<br />To be sure, human factors are taken into consideration - the authors show a keen understanding of, and give advice for dealing with, organizational dynamics, politics and resistance to change.  This is an essential set of knowledge and skill factors without which change cannot be accomplished.<br />The keys to the approach given in this book, though, are in the chapters dealing with defining your goals and developing an overall strategy, then selecting the approach that is most suitable for your organization. The project-oriented aspects are covered in chapters dealing with characterizing &quot;as-is&quot; tasks, planning, and working towards the long-term objectives. The approach also includes a viable measurement strategy with which to ascertain results, and advice on how to build enthusiasm and support - instead of resistance - as the change initiative is being implemented. A key chapter is &quot;Prevent Reversion and Fallback&quot;, which all too frequently happens in the real world.  By recognizing this particular risk in change and addressing how to prevent it the authors provide sound advice to avoid a major pitfall.<br />Overall this is an excellent book by two authors who I hold in high regard.  I also recommend reading &quot;RoadMap: How to understand, diagnose, and fix your organization&quot; (ISBN 0964163527) in conjunction with this book because it contains information that will help you select and develop an optimum overall strategy for an IT organization that is customer-focused and efficiently run.zation&quot; (ISBN 0964163527) in conjunction with this book because it contains information that will help you select and develop an optimum overall strategy for an IT organization that is customer-focused and efficiently run.	2004-06-20
622850:US	53037408	R3UZK8OJVFNCBY	0131411152	325998413	CIO Wisdom: Best Practices from Silicon Valley	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Superb compilation of knowledge &amp; experience	The seventeen articles in this compendium represents contemporary and topical subjects, each written by a seasoned CIO.  I was as impressed with the selection of articles as I was with the content because each topic is foremost on the minds of CIOs and senior IT managers today.<br />Among the articles I especially like are:<br />- The First 90 Days, by Mark Egan, which contains actionable plans that will get the new CIO (or other senior IT executive) quickly moving in the right direction.<br />-  IT Organization, by Guy de Meester, in particular the challenges of centralization vs. decentraliztion, and organizational models in general. If this area is your focus I highly recommend additional reading: &quot;Decentralization: Fantasies, Failings, and Fundamentals&quot; (ISBN 0964163535) and &quot;RoadMap: How to understand, diagnose, and fix your organization&quot; (ISBN 0964163527), both of which go into great detail and provide an exceptionally effective approach.<br />- Governance, by Danny Maco, which is conspicuously missing in organizations large and small - or is often done incorrectly if done at all.<br />- Budgeting, by Bob Denis, Maureen Vavra, John Dick ... you'd think IT has this basic function under control, but sadly not.  Read this article for excellent advice.<br />- The Metrics of IT: Management by Measurement, by Shel Waggener and Steve Zoppi.  One of my favorite topics, and this team provides outstanding advice and keen insights.<br />Other articles are as well written, and span topics from architecture to strategic planning.  Taken as a whole, this is a sourcebook that is filled with both knowledge and experience, and should be on the desk of every CIO, seasoned and new.  I also recommend visiting the site that supports this book (paste the ASIN number, B0001EHNFK, into the search box for all products on this page).  The site contains additional articles, news and other books in this series that CIOs, IT managers at all levels, and subject matter experts will find useful.experts will find useful.	2004-06-20
622865:US	53037408	RY5B9RGHBFXOG	1591392535	252064752	IT Governance: How Top Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Fills in blanks left by CObIT	This book is not consistently aligned to CObIT (Control Objectives for IT), which is an IT governance standard set forth by the IT Governance Institute (paste the ASIN, B0001F8V14, into the search all products box on this page).  However, it does provide a realistic approach to governance that reflects successful practices developed and employed by 250 companies surveyed by the authors. The key differences between CObIT and the approach in this book is the stakeholder model presented versus the control model CObIT incorporates.  More importantly, the authors approach more effectively aligns IT to business goals and objectives, with IT in a supporting role more than as the primary decision maker.<br />Among the points the authors make is that IT is a strategic asset, and effective governance links IT to strategy and performance.  I fully agree with this approach, and especially like the recommendations the authors make for implementing and managing IT governance, as well as the resources in the appendix which show which companies were surveyed.<br />If you are following CObIT you may have issues with this book; however, if you read through it with an objective mind you will find that the approach will work effectively, and does come closer to IT-business alignment than the CObIT approach.	2004-06-20
622924:US	53037408	R2946INBH188W5	047143020X	755250050	Software Testing Fundamentals: Methods and Metrics	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Unique perspective aimed at product line testing	Traditional software testing focuses two key metrics - defect removal efficiency and, in mature environments, defect density.  This book takes a different approach that, on first read, may seem like anarchy to experienced test professionals who work on internal projects.  However, when you stop and consider the context in which Ms. Hutcheson is using, the methods and metrics she sets forth make perfect sense.<br />The context is delivery of commercial products or getting company-critical applications rolled out for purposes of competitive advantage.  Within this context she defines the following goals: (1) first to market with the product, (2) optimum pricing model, (3) products with the right features, (4) keeping unacceptable bugs to an absolute minimum. For the last she has a corollary, &quot;Make sure your bugs are less expensive and less irritating than your competitor's&quot;, which is not the 'party line' in testing, especially in organizations that strive for zero defects, but is realistic, and especially so when time-to-market is critical.  In some ways this book reflects software testing in marketing-driven product development.  This is further reinforced by the following definitions and objectives:<br />- definition of quality is customer satisfaction.<br />- system for achieving quality is constant refinement.<br />- measure of quality is the profit.<br />- target goal of the quality process is a hit every time.<br />Achieving the above within the software testing domain does require a departure from conventional thinking and methods, and how to go about achieving them is thoroughly covered in the body of the book.  The key approach is to develop a test strategy that is based on 'Most Important Tests'.  Supporting activities covered include building a test inventory, managing risk, and a feedback loop of data analysis.<br />In addition to being aligned to product line development, this book's approach can also be easily tailored to rapid, iterative development approaches such as agile methods.  If you are working in an internal development environment that uses 'heavier' development lifecycles this book is not going to fit; however, if you work in a product-oriented environment this book will not only change your thinking, but will provide the basis for an integrated development-marketing approach that could make a real difference in competitive advantage.pproaches such as agile methods.  If you are working in an internal development environment that uses 'heavier' development lifecycles this book is not going to fit; however, if you work in a product-oriented environment this book will not only change your thinking, but will provide the basis for an integrated development-marketing approach that could make a real difference in competitive advantage.	2004-06-20
623079:US	53037408	R3BWRWTYLUDGZH	0970035225	637693524	PDM: Product Data Management	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Outstanding resource for Mfg. PDM	This book is one of the most comprehensive and lavishly illustrated resources about PDM from a manufacturing perspective in print.<br />It provides a solid introduction to PDM as a discipline, and the underlying concepts, including justification for implementing PDM and its associated ROI.<br />I like the way PDM is treated as an overreaching process, and how it connects to BOMs, routing and scheduling, and the manufacturing process itself.  The book delves into metrics, specialized BOMs, managing change, and recommended vendors to provide the technical infrastructure to support PDM. Also included is a project plan and roadmap for implementing PDM, which enhances the value of this book.<br />The writing is crystal clear, and is augmented by full color graphics that portray concepts, processes and other relevant information, making this book both an easy read and a reference during and after PDM has been implemented.  Moreover, the supporting web site, CIBRES (ASIN B0001MMRTY) contains additional information about this book and supporting materials.	2004-06-19
623252:US	53037408	R17ZUYFM2UVMF0	0470862645	564613338	Software Configuration Management Implementation Roadmap	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fills an important niche for SCM discipline	There are a lot of excellent books on SCM which explain the discipline and provide detailed operational advice. This one stands apart because it focuses on implementing SCM as a set of processes and procedures, and shows how to integrate it into your development environment.<br />Mr. Moreira leads you through every milestone of implementation from realistically assessing your needs and how to fit SCM into your development processes, to establishing an SCM infrastructure, to defining SCM tasks tailored to projects.<br />One of the best features of this book - and why it is invaluable to anyone who is seriously pursuing a viable SCM function - is the wealth of plans, templates, and process documents contained in the appendices and on the accompanying CD ROM. These will save a substantial amount of time to accomplish an implementation.<br />Other aspects of this book that I like include the chapters on SCM in general, the process- and task-oriented approaches, and the in-depth knowledge the author exhibits throughout.<br />If you are buying this book to guide you through an SCM implementation, or are merely exploring the level of complexity such an endeavor entails, I also recommend &quot;Software Configuration Management Patterns: Effective Teamwork, Practical Integration&quot; (ISBN 0201741172) because the patterns provided in that book add a layer of depth and refinement to an SCM implementation and ongoing SCM management.	2004-06-19
623373:US	53037408	R29WYSZJ5VBL2G	0471201006	366783879	Testing Applications on the Web: Test Planning for Mobile and Internet-Based Systems	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Major rewrite of the best web testing book	This is more than a minor update of the first edition of this highly regarded book - it's a major rewrite with added material on mobile web testing.<br />As in the earlier book, this one clearly shows the differences between traditional testing and web testing, which will provide QA professionals who are moving from older environments into web-based systems an orientation and direction.  For new QA professionals the chapters on software testing basics, networking and web application components provide a solid foundation.  The chapter on mobile web application platforms is unique to this book, and adds true value. Other core material includes test planning, and a sample application and test plan to add realistic scenarios to the material.<br />Web-specific test advice encompasses UI, functional, server-side, database, help, installation, compatibility, security and performance testing.  These cover all facets of the test process and associated procedures in a web-centric environment. Additional chapters include using test scripts, testing mobile web applications, and web testing tools.<br />While the core content is on the mark and accurate, the appendices are as invaluable.  These include a test plan template, weekly status report template, error analysis checklist (with error examples), UI test-case design guidelines (common keyboard navigation/shortcut matrix and mouse action matrix web), test-case design guideline: input boundary and validation matrix, display compatibility test matrix, and browser/OS configuration matrix.<br />If you test web systems this is the most complete book you can read, and it is destined to attain the same 'classic' status as the first edition.	2004-06-19
623446:US	53037408	RBCWTQPZGNZ0	1590590651	717655279	Real World Software Configuration Management	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Realistic and practical. Right amount of info	SCM books range from highly detailed to general overviews.  This one has just enough theory and background, and a lot of detail for two specific environments: (1) CVS and (2) SourceSafe.  If you are not using either tool this book may not be the best resource.<br />Highlights include the way the book covers the use of the two tools in great detail, ensuring that readers in Microsoft and UNIX/Linux environments have realistic guidelines for implementing and effectively using SCM in their specific environments.  Note that the examples are slanted towards the Microsoft .NET and Linux environments, which make this material relevant to a significant number of readers.<br />SCM as a discipline is clearly and succinctly covered. I like the way the book examines both roles and processes, and the emphasis on tasks.  These make this book one of the most practical I've read because nuances of each tool, as well as unique build requirements for each of the environments are clearly covered.<br />If you work with either CVS or SourceSafe and want to quickly learn how to best employ either tool in their target environments for an effective SCM process this book will prove invaluable.	2004-06-19
623894:US	53037408	R3UFVK8QHZI3LU	1563270927	661028945	Designing Products and Services That Customers Want (Management Master Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Idea sourcebook	This pamphlet-size book is a fast-paced survey of tools and techniques for capturing the voice of the customer and using that voice to design products and services.<br />Some familiarity with TQM and quality techniques will be necessary to use this book effectively. The main focus of the book is quality function deployment (QFD), and this book serves as an introduction to this technique in its simplest form.  For advanced practitioners this material may be too basic, but it does serve as a memory jogger. For someone new to QDF this is a great introduction, but the presentation is too brisk to discover the nuances and the true power of QFD.<br />The appendices contained brief overviews of the 7 quality control tools (from TQM), the 7 management tools, and 7 creativity tools, which, are memory joggers as are the other material in this book.<br />If you want a quick introduction to some powerful tools and are willing to dig deeper into them using other books and resources, or you are familiar with them and want a sourcebook of ideas this book is an invaluable aid.  It's small enough to fit in a purse or briefcase, and valuable enough to have nearby at all times.	2004-06-18
623969:US	53037408	RWUT3F6TWZPHC	1580530729	64502719	A Guide to Software Configuration Management (Artech House Computer Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Solid, to-the-point primer on SCM	There are more comprehensive books on SCM, such as Jessica Keyes' &quot;Software Configuration Management&quot; (ISBN 0849319765), but none that will get you as quickly up-to-speed on the basics and key issues as this book.<br />Mr. Leon steps you through the what's, why's and how's of software configuration management in a clearly written manner that is refreshingly devoid of fluff or side trips into esoteric areas. He clearly explains the entire SCM cycle from identification to configuration Control to status accounting to audits and reviews.  Each of these critical areas are explained in sufficient detail to allow you to thoroughly understand the scope and complexity of SCM without becoming overwhelmed.<br />Another strength of this book is the chapter on configuration management plans, which will provide the new SCM practitioner with a solid starting point and template from which to work.  The chapters on SCM organization, implementation and SCM in large projects are also solid and quick reads with enough information to get you started.<br />Some of the material in this book is, unfortunately, out of date - the chapters on tools and Internet resources could use an update - or better, a supporting web site instead of inclusion in the book - but the chapter on standards is still applicable and is a good resource for further research.<br />If you're an experienced SCM practitioner I recommend you get Jessica Keyes' book I cited above; however, if you are new to SCM and want a quick-start guide that will give you the basics this is the best book on the subject.	2004-06-18
624038:US	53037408	R2VQ5G7HCCN58S	047199782X	814192472	Managing Software Quality and Business Risk (Rights of Children)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Convergence of two critical success factors	This book is an update to the author's earlier work in the convergence of risk management and quality as keys to successful software development and delivery.<br />What makes this book worthwhile to software engineering managers, applications delivery teams, project managers and proposal teams is the seamless way Ould connects the dots between two critical functions - risk and quality. The material on risk identification, analysis and management reflect best practices.  Moreover, it serves as a primer on risk management, which is clear, logically sequenced and contains no gaps or omissions. I especially like the way he thoroughly covers various process models related to software development lifecycles (including the V-model, DSDM, evolutionary and incremental delivery).  The risk planning approach he proposes can be easily aligned to any of these models based on the chapter on Risk Planning.<br />Ould approaches quality as both a verification and validation activity, as well as a control function.  This approach is suitable for project-oriented teams and organizations, and ties nicely into the risk approach set forth in the beginning of this book.<br />I like the resource management material that has been refined and carried over from his earlier book. The work breakdown structures are invaluable aids, and his advice on monitoring and controlling resources is realistic and workable.<br />A good deal of this book is slanted towards organizations that provide contracted services and development.  This makes it ideal for scoping projects and building project plans from a provider perspective.  However, this can be also used to great advantage by organizations who are seeking contracted development and issuing RFPs because they will gain a clear understanding of what to demand from a provider. It is also useful to internal development organizations since the risk and quality management principles so clearly described in this book are critical success factors in that environment as well.ironment as well.	2004-06-18
624107:US	53037408	R1XOAPQMRCZH1V	1574440993	110293206	Operational Performance Measurement: Increasing Total Productivity	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	One of the best in my personal reference library	This is one of a handful of books on performance metrics I recommend to peers and clients. The author starts with one of the most cogent set of reasons for measuring performance that I've read. These reasons are compelling, reinforced with realistic examples, and clearly articulated.  He then briefly discusses the art and science of measurement, and associated standards, techniques and methods. I especially liked his &quot;Measuring the Unmeasurable&quot; advice, which knocks down mental barriers and shows how you can, indeed, measure indicators that you may think are unmeasurable.<br />The approach he sets out is systematic and encompasses performance measurement in not only manufacturing, but in services and sales.  In fact, Appendix C, &quot;Implementing a Formal Selling Process&quot;, shows just how wide the scope of this book is.  I've worked in technical pre-sales support and was thoroughly impressed with his approach.<br />Among the aspects of this book I especially like are the techniques he explains, the way you are lead through the development of an effective measurement system by identifying what to measure, implementing the system, analysis and interpretation, and actionable use of performance measures.  Moreover, the way the author knits together a system based on multiple perspectives, taking into account strategic, customer, departmental and company-wide views is insightful.  I also like the chapter on ensuring measures are showing an accurate picture, and the benchmarking information in Appendix A, &quot;What Some Leading Companies are Measuring&quot;.<br />In my opinion this is a &quot;must-have&quot; book for anyone involved in operations, process improvement, or who has P&amp;L responsibilities and wants to manage by fact - the right facts.	2004-06-18
624188:US	53037408	R3QI3GAX5QM8GA	0471268992	265532605	The Portable MBA in Project Management	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wealth of knowledge in advanced techniques	This book is more than an expansion of Verzuh's earlier &quot;Fast Forward MBA in Project Management&quot;, ISBN 0471325465, in that both books can be used in conjunction with one another.  Whereas the earlier book is a quick-start guide imparts a wealth of knowledge and techniques, this one goes deep into advanced techniques that project managers of all experience levels will appreciate. More importantly, executive management will benefit from parts of this book, especially Part One, which makes a case for project manager at the strategic level.<br />Contributing authors are subject matter experts in every facet of project management, assuring that this book will reflect the best thinking across all PM areas. Part Two contains a number of chapters that drill down into core areas, such as project selection, stakeholder satisfaction, risk management and quality.  These areas are often overlooked by working project managers who are more concerned with estimating, scheduling and control (also covered in this part of the book).<br />Part Three is completely focused on team management, with excellent material on team building.  I especially liked the chapter on managing virtual teams because this is an increasing requirement, both within internal organizations as well as managing teams comprised of internal resources and off-shore resources to which parts of a project may be outsourced. This is also applicable to project teams comprised of a prime and number of subcontractors.<br />For those interested in building an organizational structure that is project-based Part Four contains a wealth of material.  I found the Stage-Gate new product development process given in chapter 11 to be both a viable and innovative approach to managing development and launches of new products. I also liked chapter 13, which covered enterprise project management in great detail.  This material is outstanding for companies that are considering establishing a PMO.<br />As I read through this book I discovered techniques that had eluded me during my 25+ years of project management experience, as well as fresh ways of looking at techniques and methods I've used throughout my career. The selection of contributors to this book is one of its strengths - each comes across with the highest credibility, and there are no technical or factual gaps anywhere in the book.<br />If you are a working project manager, regardless of experience level, I strongly recommend adding this outstanding book to your professional library.ook I discovered techniques that had eluded me during my 25+ years of project management experience, as well as fresh ways of looking at techniques and methods I've used throughout my career. The selection of contributors to this book is one of its strengths - each comes across with the highest credibility, and there are no technical or factual gaps anywhere in the book.<br />If you are a working project manager, regardless of experience level, I strongly recommend adding this outstanding book to your professional library.	2004-06-18
624479:US	53037408	R2MQTDUXCMZRKX	0471269247	756782943	Communicating Project Management: The Integrated Vocabulary of Project Management and Systems Engineering	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Keys to teamwork and collaboration	This book augments the author's &quot;Visualizing Project Management&quot; (ISBN 047135760X), which I consider to be one of the best books about project management.<br />The reason why I consider this book to be invaluable is in the collection of techniques and models that foster or directly support collaboration and communication.  I especially like the emphasis on communication at the human level, and how the authors highlight barriers and how to overcome them.  This material is more than anecdotal - it is reinforced with formal techniques, process models, and cognitive factors.  More importantly, the authors delve into communications between and among members of global or geographically dispersed teams, including cultural factors. Given the growing number of teams that are comprised of internal company resources, and off-shore outsourced providers this information is topical and invaluable.<br />Visualizing Systems Management - The Visual Process Model in Chapter 2 is a direct tie-in to the authors' earlier book, and is the foundation of their approach to facilitating communications. The reference project cycle in Chapter 4 is another touchpoint to their earlier book. However, that earlier book is not required to get maximum benefit from this one - this material will augment any book on project management, including standards such as the Project Management Institute's PMBOK and the U.K. standard, PRINCE2.<br />The foregoing material comprises approximately a third of the book.  The remaining two thirds is devoted to general project management terms and definitions, and acronyms. The terms and definitions are more like an encyclopedia than a dictionary because many are lavishly illustrated and many entries are full explanations of the term, concept or technique.  The value of this is your project team will be working from a common set of terminologies, and the book will serve as a ready reference for anyone unfamiliar with a particular technique or concept associated with project management.iated with project management.	2004-06-18
624537:US	53037408	R3UV7TJ7PVFQF0	0471232815	838796602	Testing Web Security: Assessing the Security of Web Sites and Applications	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Adds the auditing dimension to web testing	This book is unique in that it focuses more on auditing than on actual web testing techniques, which is an area that is too often overlooked by QA.  Because of this niche area, this book can be used in conjunction with any of the more testing-centric books, giving QA a solid security-in-depth approach. This approach also makes this book a solid reference for complying with parts of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.<br />Splaine thoroughly covers the test/audit process by addressing all layers and threat vectors.  He takes a systematic vulnerability assessment and risk management approach, and extensively uses checklists throughout this book to help you to develop a security auditing process that will close most of the vulnerability gaps, as well as to augment other testing approaches.<br />I particularly like the completeness of topic coverage - he goes into network, protocol, client- and server-side application, and attack modes in great detail.  For each area he provides advice, checklists and a strategy for dealing with the risks and vulnerabilities represented.  I also like the way he addresses configuration management, quality and test case design.  These reflect best practices and can be quickly integrated into a web security QA function.<br />Splaine's earlier book, &quot;The Web Testing Handbook&quot; (ISBN 0970436300) nicely augments this one, as does Nguyen's highly regarded &quot;Testing Applications on the Web: Test Planning for Internet-Based Systems&quot; (ISBN 047139470X), both of which are more focused on web testing.<br />If you work in QA or web security this book will be an invaluable resource, and is one that I highly recommend because it spans both disciplines.	2004-06-18
624713:US	53037408	RVZQV24U4WRJP	0814450733	684247150	Vital Signs: Using Quality, Time, and Cost Performance Measurements to Chart Your Company's Future	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Basic, but with sound approach	This is a relatively basic book on using key performance metrics. The foundation of the approach is TQM, with a nice focus on how to use associated techniques to gather, analyze and manage the metrics. Some of the material is wrapped in \\"Quantum Performance\\" and its associated measurement matrix. The terminology and approach embodied in these are, at the basic level, a refactoring and tailoring of existing tools and techniques.<br /><br />I like the way effective tools ranging from affinity diagrams to statistical process control charts are employed throughout the book. The realistic examples using these tools and techniques the tactical and strategic levels makes this book especially valuable to companies that have embraced TQM. However, each tool or technique can be effectively used in environments in which management is seeking a systematic way to measure the right things for competitive advantage.<br /><br />Another valuable aspect of this book is the focus on processes, and how they apply to the big picture of performance measurement.<br /><br />Overall, this is an easy-to-read book that is equally easy to understand and apply. Aside from a few unique perspectives and the focus on TQM and associated tools, the material is not groundbreaking. That is not to say that this book does not merit a place on your reading list if you are seeking a systematic performance measurement program, because the approach set forth is valid and will prove effective in the real world. I recommend reading this book as a starting point, then augmenting the knowledge gained with [[ASIN:1574440993 Operational Performance Measurement: Increasing Total Productivity]] to get a complete picture before embarking on any performance measurement initiative.	2004-06-18
625101:US	53037408	R3Q4WSSCWKHATT	0735711186	131173677	Back to the User: Creating User-Focused Web Sites (Voices (New Riders))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful, friendly &quot;How-to&quot; for new web developers	There are a plethora of books on web site design, too many of which contain advanced techniques for experienced web designers.  This one is perfect for the new developer, especially if he or she is developing a small e-commerce system for small or side business use.<br />The authors focus on the user experience and how to make your site visually and functionally appealing to those users.  They start by giving a 30,000 foot view of your site and your brand. The assumption is that the reader is new to both site design and possibly new to marketing principles.<br />Key points about this book that I like include the way the authors anticipate some readers will be augmenting an existing small business with a web presence (or starting a strictly web-based business from scratch), and the way they show how to tackle barriers and deal with issues.  While this book is about user experience and how to use technology to enhance it, it is also about real world factors, including human nature, effective selling, and customer care.<br />The technical aspects of this book - translating a user-centric approach into a web site - are sound from aesthetic and usability perspectives. Copious use of screenshots from real sites that are models of good design and success are used throughout this book to reinforce the advice given. The writing is clear throughout, and the authors are refreshingly flexible about design choices (unlike some books which are dogmatic on a number of issues).<br />If you are new to web development and want an introductory text that will not lose you in technical details or advanced design discussions this is a great starting point.	2004-06-18
625132:US	53037408	R20VIM2WW9YSDS	0201741172	821883376	Software Configuration Management Patterns: Effective Teamwork, Practical Integration	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Essential SCM resource for all experience levels	I'm a fan of patterns because of the succinct way they convey knowledge and practices, so I rushed out to purchase this book.  I was not disappointed for a number of reasons.  First, it is true to the concept of patterns, and second, it is all practical with no ivory tower preaching.<br />The patterns given in this book comprise a complete picture of software configuration management, and will allow you to fully understand the scope and complexity of implementing, managing and continuously improving an SCM process.  From the following list you'll see that these patterns are end-to-end:<br />- Mainline and active development line, both of which are designed to manage baselines, as well as to promote stability in the code base.<br />- Private Workspace, repository, private versioning, and private system build patterns are the essence of SCM as well as reflecting best practices in team-oriented integration and testing while preserving the integrity of the code base.<br />- Third party codeline is an interesting pattern that I've not encountered, but one that is highly useful when you are working with subcontractors, or have outsourced some development. The patterns for task level commit and task branches are also useful approaches to team-oriented development, whether internal or distributed among subcontractors.<br />- Codeline policy, smoke and unit test patterns govern the SCM process and prepare for the transition from development to QA.  These are core patterns that are directly tied to the development process.<br />- Release line, release prep codeline, and regression test patterns cover the promotion to QA and release management portions of the development process.<br />In addition to the patterns, which are the main value of this book, the clearly articulated chapters on pattern language, SCM concepts, and other contextual information further enhance this book, and is yet another reason why anyone interested in SCM should make reading this book a priority.  The supporting web site (ASIN B0000AA6G3) contains errata, a downloadable quick reference card, and sample chapters from this book.  If you are still undecided visit the site and you'll find sufficient information with which to decide.g web site (ASIN B0000AA6G3) contains errata, a downloadable quick reference card, and sample chapters from this book.  If you are still undecided visit the site and you'll find sufficient information with which to decide.	2004-06-18
625650:US	53037408	RRVNPRU0AH8YD	0595256791	470519873	Zen and the Art of Systems Analysis: Meditations on Computer Systems Development	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Unique - and a fun read	To say this book is different from any technical book I've ever read would be an understatement. The best way to describe it is to use an analogy from real life. We all have had a boss or coworker who is a born teacher and imparts their extensive experience in a reflective manner.<br />This book is like that person.  Mr. McDermott's experience is extensive - I purchased this book based on the high regard I have for one he coauthored titled, &quot;Workflow Modeling: Tools for Process Improvement and Application Development&quot; ISBN 1580530214. He is also a born teacher who uses anecdotes, past experiences, analogies and other devices to impart knowledge about the most important topics in systems analysis - analysis, design, consulting, business, economics, corporate culture and models.<br />Each topic area contains a mixture of experience from jobs he has worked, his reflections on the key issues, published works and comments by others with whom he has worked, and clear advice.  There is a thread of humor that runs through this book, but the messages he give are serious and well thought out.<br />As you read this book you will be drawn in by the conversational style - it's as though he is talking to and mentoring you, and much of what he says may be something you already know on a conscious or subconscious level.  However, it's the presentation and the personal voice that make much of this material sound like fresh ideas.  That is where the Zen comes in.  A read through this book will open your eyes to subtleties of ideas that on the surface seem obvious.  Certainly you will approach analysis with a fresh perspective.<br />If for no other reason, read this book for the pleasure of reading - you'll still come away with insights that will stay with you.	2004-06-17
626652:US	53037408	R31SXH7DR3NV9F	1580533272	332229486	Building Reliable Component-Based Software Systems	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wide contemporary application	This book is based on papers written by an array of experts in all component-based sub disciplines, and cover the full spectrum of topics. Organization of the book is seven areas, each of which contains relevant papers that start at the general level and segue to specifics. Readers new to component-based software engineering can get the basics from the general-level material, then drill down into details in subsequent chapters in each of the areas presented in the book.<br /><br />While I found the material uniformly excellent from the perspectives of consistent editing, technical accuracy and best practices, the strongest point is the editors have selected material that manages to encompass all facets of the discipline. This book is all meat with no fluff.<br /><br />I like the sequence of topic areas, which start with an overview of components, definitions and specifications, to architecture, to development. In addition, subsequent topic areas cover using components, applying component-based software engineering to product line development, and real-time components. When this book was written real-time components were more in the domain of specialized device manufacturers, but this material is also applicable to certain types of web services. In fact, given the growing trend towards web services the developers in that domain can learn much from the work of the component-based software engineering community because there is a lot of overlap between the two at many levels. More importantly, the sub discipline of reuse, covered in this book, is conspicuously missing from many web services development environments. The knowledge in that area alone would make this book a worthwhile investment.<br /><br />This book is one of two that I believe capture the major elements of the body of knowledge of this discipline (the other is \\"Component Based Software Engineering: Putting the Pieces Together\\" ISBN 0201704854). I also strongly recommend \\"Testing and Quality Assurance for Component-Based Software\\" ISBN 1580534805 as a supplement to this book if you are working in the component-based software engineering environment and/or are working with web services and wish to tap into the mature and proven best practices and body of knowledge from the CBSE discipline.r Component-Based Software\\" ISBN 1580534805 as a supplement to this book if you are working in the component-based software engineering environment and/or are working with web services and wish to tap into the mature and proven best practices and body of knowledge from the CBSE discipline.	2004-06-16
626697:US	53037408	R2LT1ZNGZUMXH	0321117662	319699800	Configuration Management Principles and Practice	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Complete survey of approaches for all SDLCs	This book lives up to its title by providing principles and practices.  What makes it so special to the CM and SCM community is the thorough treatment of the subject in the large, and the attention the author pays to special needs and issues with respect to viewpoints.<br />In the large this book is a tutorial on configuration management, and its sub specialties (project- and production-CM, software configuration management with respect to major software development lifecycle and methodology approaches, and product configuration management).<br />Nothing is overlooked in this book.  For example, the detailed discussions of how to align your CM requirements to maturity models and software process improvement methods, and international standards are invaluable to a wide spectrum of readers regardless of whether they are using CMM/CMMI, SPICE, Bootstrap, ISO 9001, US DoD, IEEE or other major standards. This book also offers tailored approaches form implementing CM and SCM for numerous SDLCs ranging from Agile methods to integrated product development to sequential development (and others).<br />I especially like the way core CM and SCM principles are covered to give a baseline of concepts and practices, then how those are applied to environments.  In particular, the metrics, organizational considerations in the form of roles, and processes that can be adapted are invaluable.<br />This is one of the best books on CM and SCM I have in my library, and one to which I refer when I need a definitive answer to questions related to practices and processes.  In addition to this book I also highly recommend visiting CM Crossroads (ASIN B00009P31G), which has a wealth of additional material that any practitioner - regardless of experience level - will find useful.	2004-06-16
626789:US	53037408	R22FPZ83CX3PB0	0471486566	24086128	Web Application Architecture: Principles, Protocols and Practices	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Takes intermediate developers to the next level	This book is an ideal text for providing intermediate-level web developers with a solid grounding in architectural principles and more advanced techniques.  Before going into why I like this book I do want to offer one caveat - the authors' approach is towards the Model-View-Controller paradigm, and is based on Java Standard Tag Library, Jarkata struts and Apache.  These are solid elements, but if you are working in a different environment you will not appreciate this book as much.<br />The historical material in this book is not fluff if you approach it with the intent to gain a fuller understanding of the major components of the Internet and web.  This material is rich with details about why the core web technologies developed and evolved, including design choices the pioneers made in the face of constraints.  In a subtle way this part of the book is a primer on design and architecture.<br />What makes this book so valuable is the non-trivial application that brings this book alive. This is a refreshing change from other books that use thinly contrived snippets of code or trivial applications.  The code for this application can be downloaded from the book's supporting web site, which also contains errata (thus far there are only two entries), and articles that are valuable resources with or without this book.<br />Overall this is one of the better books on web application design and development, and one that dives into code and technical details.	2004-06-16
627352:US	53037408	R1SNQXHGWVP1TV	158053791X	455174304	A Practitioner's Guide to Software Test Design	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Page turner tech book?  You bet!	The top two software testing books that I recommend are Systematic Software Testing (ISBN 1580535089), and this gem.  Whereas the first book gives a complete process and accompanying practices, this one focuses on a collection of highly effective techniques that every test professional should have in his or her toolbox.<br />Copeland starts off with an overview of testing as a process, followed by case studies.  These lay the foundation for the techniques for which a chapter is devoted to each technique.  The chapters on the techniques are divided into collections of techniques that are most effective for blackbox (seven) and whitebox (two) testing.  The next chapters are devoted to scripted testing with an emphasis on IEEE 829, exploratory testing, and test planning.  The book wraps up with an outstanding chapter on software defect taxonomies, advice on when to stop testing, and case studies.<br />So why did I state this book is a page turner?  Copeland has masterfully used humor, statements that catch you off guard, and a warm conversational style to hold your attention.  Among the priceless gems of humor are the off-the-wall quotes that he uses in front of each chapter.  One of many examples of how he holds your attention by catching you off guard is in Chapter 6 on pairwise testing: 'Why does pairwise testing work so well?  I don't know', which he then follows up with one of the most cogent explanations of the technique I've had the pleasure of reading.  As an aside, his treatment of pairwise testing - and the power of that technique - is reason enough to read this book.<br />Another aspect of this book I like is the thoroughness with which he presents techniques.  This includes citing the work of other well known practitioners, using case studies, summaries, practice scenarios, and additional references for each chapter. Copeland also has a talent for clearly articulating and conveying complex topics and concepts, adding to this book's value as both courseware and a working reference.<br />If you are a software testing professional, or you are responsible for teaching this discipline this is one of the top books in my opinion.  It is not as wide in scope as Software Testing: A Craftsman's Approach (ISBN: 0849308097), but it makes up for that by covering the essentials in the clearest possible manner.e and a working reference.<br />If you are a software testing professional, or you are responsible for teaching this discipline this is one of the top books in my opinion.  It is not as wide in scope as Software Testing: A Craftsman's Approach (ISBN: 0849308097), but it makes up for that by covering the essentials in the clearest possible manner.	2004-06-16
627378:US	53037408	R1LVO5ZQ4FFE69	0471926280	835907076	Strategies for Software Engineering: The Management of Risk and Quality (Wiley Series in Software Engineering Practice)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Somewhat out-of-date but still valuable	This book laid the foundation of the author's later book titled &quot;Managing Software Quality and Business Risk&quot; (ISBN 0471926280).  There are a few differences between this and the later work, and if you are among the target audience - service provider or development contractor - getting this book is a worthwhile investment.<br />Some of the circa 1990 material regarding development environments and practices is woefully out of date, as is some of the terminology. However, there are some gems within this book that will be invaluable to the target audience. These are:<br />- Chapters 2, 3 and 4 cover technical planning, risk reduction and quality planning in great detail.  This material is aimed at contracting, but can be easily tailored for internal development or integration projects.<br />Chapters 5, 6 and 7 address creating a quality culture, planning for quality control and resource planning.  These are applicable to contracting and internal organizations and the material is excellent and as relevant today as it was when this book was written 14 years ago.<br />In addition to the complete coverage of risk and quality that is presented in this book, the author provides detailed work breakdown structures which can serve as either a template for your own projects, or tailored to specific projects. I found this part of the book to be among the biggest reason to track down a used copy of this book.<br />If you work as a project manager, an engagement manager who is responsible for contract capture, or on a technical team tasked with developing responses to RFPs this book is one I highly recommend.  If you have broader responsibilities within an internal organization, I recommend the later book cited above. An excellent companion resource is  Software Program Managers Network (ASIN B0001M00RA).	2004-06-16
627983:US	53037408	R1P8IXPSM3LI9K	1580534988	119620731	Implementing and Integrating Product Data Management and Software Configuration Management (Artech House Computing Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Much needed convergence of disciplines	When an industry expert and noted CM author such as Alexis Leon awards this book 5-stars you are assured that it's worth reading.  I found this book to be unique in that it ties together two separate, but related, disciplines that share common goals, but diverge in terminology and approach.<br />The team of authors demonstrate a deep knowledge of product and software development life cycles, the key issues, practices and factors in each of these disciplines, and have produced a book that clarifies the differences and similarities.  More importantly, they have integrated the two disciplines at the conceptual and best practices levels, and have distilled the terminologies of these disciplines to provide a convergent view of configuration management at the meta level.  This feat makes this book one of the most valuable resources spanning two major topics - product data management and software configuration management. Moreover, it provides the key to attaining a single CM posture within an organization, which is coherent and has all roles working from the same set of processes and procedures, instead of two CM silos.<br />Scope and depth of the material in this book are wide and deep.  The material does not leave a single important concept, issue or practice uncovered.  It also contains best practices from both the PDM and SCM worlds, so it rates high in technical accuracy.  More importantly, real life examples are used throughout to illustrate or reinforce concepts and practices.<br />There is only one area where this book is weak - it cites specific tools, which practically assures that this material will be outdated.  However, the preface to this book contains the URL to the book's supporting web site, which does provide up-to-date information, which offsets this minor weakness.  I highly recommend this book to all CM practitioners, especially those in product-centric companies.  I also recommend augmenting this book with PDM Information Center (ASIN B0000A22J3) and CM Crossroads (ASIN B00009P31G).nd CM Crossroads (ASIN B00009P31G).	2004-06-16
628471:US	53037408	R39VC5FX9SGJR4	0131473794	767053402	IT Architecture Toolkit	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	Pragmatic addition to body of knowledge	I've used a number of approaches to architecture, including the Zachman Framework, the RUP 4+1, SEI's ATAM, and a plethora of others. I was skeptical that this book was going to add anything of value to the art and practice of architecture.  I was wrong. This book gives a realistic approach to architecture.  Better, with minor tailoring it can be applied to any of the more mainstream methodologies, and does so because it is a toolkit of methods more than a formal methodology.  Of course, if you are not using one of the plethora of architecture methodologies, this book's approach will also serve nicely as a standalone methodology as well.<br />The approach is based on &quot;Infomajic Enterprise Architecture Toolkit&quot;, which was developed by the author's company (Infomajic).  In some ways the approach is a scaled down version of the Zachman Framework - indeed, there is a fairly detailed comparison between the two starting on page 11.<br />There are three main stages to the architecture toolkit, (1) connecting the architecture to business, (2) developing the architecture itself, and (3) implementation strategies.  The latter is what sets this book apart from many which focus on 'fun' stuff and gloss over the gory details associated with implementation.  Each step within these three stages are thoroughly discussed in great detail, yet the author's brisk writing style makes even the most mundane aspects highly readable.<br />Key aspects of this book that I particularly like include copious real world examples, width and depth of the content, and outstanding use of charts and tables to convey information.  In addition to the detailed approach in the body of the book, the nine appendices are invaluable aids, ranging from interview outlines, to estimating work effort guidelines, to sample job descriptions and architecture assessment workshop outlines.<br />Regardless of which architecture methodology you are using (or are committed to using), you'll gain many useful ideas from this book.  If you are searching for a viable methodology, this one is complete and has been proven in the real world.eas from this book.  If you are searching for a viable methodology, this one is complete and has been proven in the real world.	2004-06-15
629220:US	53037408	R2QIBL6QCS5RNH	1881378241	159324076	Loosely Coupled: The Missing Pieces of Web Services	Books	5	22	22	N	N	High-level &amp; contextual w/multi audiences	This is a book of concepts and context that clearly explains what web services are and are not.  If you are seeking a technical book with how to approaches this is not it. It is also not a book about architecture or low-level technical details.<br />I like the way Mr. Kaye divides the book into intended audiences, and the clarity he brings to a topic that is still confuses because of hype, misconception and competing vendor definitions that not surprisingly are slanted towards products.<br />Understanding how this book is structured and for whom each part is intended will give insight into the content and why this book is an invaluable aid to looking at web services in a clear perspective:<br />- all readers will benefit from reading the first ten chapters, which cover perspectives (history, definitions, critical pieces that make up web services), and concepts (history of integration, relationships between web services and objects and service oriented architectures, and other factors).  Some of this material is either basic or will not be of interest and can be safely skipped.  It does cover the landscape of foundation material in a thorough, highly readable manner.<br />- developers and managers will benefit from technologies (chapters 11-15), which cover the following factors as they specifically relate to web services:  transactions, security, and deployment options.  This material is an aggregation of both the author's wide and extensive industry experience, and the knowledge and experience of his clients and industry contacts.  I consider these chapters to be tried and true advice from the trenches.<br />- managers and executives are the target audience of strategies, which are covered in five on-the-mark chapters that address project approaches, timing, and [importantly] service level agreements.  External services are also covered in this part of the book. The final part of the book is an appendix that is a strategic checklist that is so thorough and comprehensive that it can be used to both scope the complexity of a web services project and as a basis for a work breakdown structure for the project itself.<br />From the points of view of perspective, concept, and real world advice this is one of the best resources I've discovered on web services.  Added value comes from the discussions board and supporting material on the author's website (ASIN B0000A2MOK).nsive that it can be used to both scope the complexity of a web services project and as a basis for a work breakdown structure for the project itself.<br />From the points of view of perspective, concept, and real world advice this is one of the best resources I've discovered on web services.  Added value comes from the discussions board and supporting material on the author's website (ASIN B0000A2MOK).	2004-06-15
643838:US	53037408	R1YCLLKGBCQTVL	0964163535	75985641	Decentralization: Fantasies, Failings, and Fundamentals	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Packed with wisdom and answers	Centralization vs. decentralization is one of the most common problems which occupy senior management, especially when cost-cutting measures or performance shortfalls from internal service providers are drivers. This book will clarify the key issues and provide decision makers with facts, clearly articulated reasons to either opt for centralization or make the best of decentralization if it's unavoidable.<br />The author is clearly against decentralization and backs up the reasons why with short case studies and a compelling argument.  Unlike other authors, though, Meyer is a realist and recognizes there will be circumstances that make decentralization inevitable, such as internal politics, larger initiatives placed in motion by executive management, and mergers.  Instead of proclaiming total failure he provides organizational models and methods to make decentralization work as best it can.<br />If you are evaluating the merits of decentralization vs. centralization of internal service functions Chapters 2 through 5 will arm you with a clear and objective view of the strengths and weaknesses.<br />Chapters 6 through 9 are invaluable to decision makers in any corporate or business unit reorganization because this material shows how to either design an organizational structure that is truly customer-focused, aligned strategically, and allows maintaining business unit autonomy in a centralized environment.  These draw from Meyer's other book, &quot;The Internal Economy: How to Apply Market Principles within Organizations&quot; (ISBN 1892606186), which nicely augments this book.<br />Meyer also shows how to recentralize in Chapter 10, which also covers consolidation and merger.  This is further fleshed out in Chapter 11, which proposes an innovative paradigm of a business within a business.<br />If you are in an organization that either must decentralize, or is decentralized and the barriers to recentralization are too great, Chapters 12 through 14 will show you how to make the most of the situation.  The various models and methods Meyer provide to accomplish this evidence his extensive experience and a lot of deep thought.<br />Overall this book is one of the best I've read on the subject.  Indeed, the objectivity, combined with a bullet-proof approach, has influenced me as deeply as  Rummler's and Brache's seminal book, &quot;Improving Performance: How to Manage the White Space in the Organization Chart&quot; (ISBN 0787900907).o make the most of the situation.  The various models and methods Meyer provide to accomplish this evidence his extensive experience and a lot of deep thought.  <br />Overall this book is one of the best I've read on the subject.  Indeed, the objectivity, combined with a bullet-proof approach, has influenced me as deeply as  Rummler's and Brache's seminal book, &quot;Improving Performance: How to Manage the White Space in the Organization Chart&quot; (ISBN 0787900907).	2004-06-03
646361:US	53037408	R1BN4A9JF14EQ2	0964163527	358385558	RoadMap: How To Understand, Diagnose, and Fix Your Organization	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Clear, straightforward and on the mark!	I recently finished reading (and reviewing) Nicholas Carr's insightful book titled, &quot;Does IT Matter? Information Technology and the Corrosion of Competitive Advantage&quot; (ISBN 1591394449).  In that book Carr accurately identified common problems with IT, but offered no real solutions.  I next read this book and, much to my surprise, it set forth a clear, straightforward roadmap for rectifying nearly all of the problems Carr cited in his book.<br />What you'll find:<br />- a path to transforming your organization into one in which leadership and an empowered workforce are critical success factors<br />- an innovative perspective on resource management based on the concept of an internal economy<br />- realistic methods with which to align IT (or any internal service unit) to business<br />Meyer makes a clear distinction between leadership and management, and this distinction is one of the keys to understanding how to go about transforming an organization into one that meets the needs of its internal customers.  The 'internal economy' paradigm proposed in Chapter 12 is clearly explained; however, I recommend augmenting this chapter with another of Meyer's books titled, &quot;The Internal Economy: How to Apply Market Principles within Organizations&quot; (ISBN 1892606186) because that book goes much deeper into details.<br />Throughout the book I encountered ideas, definitions and advice that changed my views on a number of topics.  For example, I am an advocate of benchmarking.  After reading some of the reasons why this can work against you I modified my views.  The same with metrics.  I am a strong proponent of metrics, but realized after reading Chapter 14 (Metrics and Rewards) that in many cases I was using the wrong metrics - or the right metrics for the wrong reasons. This information alone made this book valuable to me.<br />Other features I like about this book is the way Meyer uses realistic stories and scenarios as a lead-in to concepts and methods. I especially liked the way he drills down into common problems in Chapter 15, using a pattern that cites the problem, then discusses dimensions (culture, structure, internal economy, methods &amp; tools, and metrics and rewards).  This approach provides a multi-dimensional template for approaching any problem in a consistent manner and ensures that you are looking at all relevant facets of a problem.  His approach to identifying root causes is equally powerful.<br />In 141 pages that comprise this excellent book Meyer provides a sensible prescription for curing problems that I've encountered in one consulting engagement after another.  While this prescription is straightforward, it is not easy to implement unless two key elements are present - leadership and management commitment to perform. If you have those, get this book.cially liked the way he drills down into common problems in Chapter 15, using a pattern that cites the problem, then discusses dimensions (culture, structure, internal economy, methods &amp; tools, and metrics and rewards).  This approach provides a multi-dimensional template for approaching any problem in a consistent manner and ensures that you are looking at all relevant facets of a problem.  His approach to identifying root causes is equally powerful.  <br />In 141 pages that comprise this excellent book Meyer provides a sensible prescription for curing problems that I've encountered in one consulting engagement after another.  While this prescription is straightforward, it is not easy to implement unless two key elements are present - leadership and management commitment to perform. If you have those, get this book.	2004-06-01
648247:US	53037408	R29DR695NB26DL	0130659002	34343317	IT Production Services	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Substantially valuable with some gaps	First, the positive points of this book:<br />- it focuses on a narrow, but important, topic (production control and production acceptance)<br />- a solid case is made for a parallel QA function for infrastructure instead of relying exclusively on QA for applications<br />- the case studies and checklists provided are valuable artifacts and both support the approach set forth in this book and underscores the value of production control as a key function<br />Where this book falls short is it seems to be written in a vacuum - the authors do not appear to have an awareness of the ITIL (IT Infrastructure Library), which is an international standard that covers all of the areas this book addresses.  This omission is all the more glaring because the ITIL is vague on some areas that are given in-depth treatment in this book, and had the authors taken the time to align their approach with the ITIL this book would stand out as an exceptionally valuable resource for a wider audience.<br />Is it worth reading?  Yes, if you have a good base of experience and knowledge of IT operations management and/or ITIL.  An experienced reader will spot where the information and approach provided in this book can fit within the ITIL, especially the production acceptance approach that is a near perfect fit with the ITIL's configuration, change and release management areas under service support, IT service continuity management under service delivery, and portions of the ITIL Business Perspectives Set.<br />Do the processes and approach set forth in this book scale?  Although one case study was of an 80,000 person organization, there are some areas in the book that will not scale to large enterprises without modifications.  For example, assigning a tape librarian cited in the book as a key role appears to overlook the fact that most of that function in a complex IT environment is automated using software and technology feature sets.  For example, an enterprise that is using EMC's storage solutions to their best advantage, including business continuity volumes (BCVs), SRDF for remote replication, and an enterprise back-up solution such as Legato AAM will have little need for a tape librarian.<br />This book does fit in with the others in the Enterprise Computing Institute Series, so if you have been basing your infrastructure management strategy on that, then this book is an essential addition to your technical library.<br />Gaps and ommissions notwithstanding, if you work in IT operations at the management level, or are implementing the ITIL this book will flesh out some of the vague areas in other resources with respect to production control and production acceptance.  I only hope the authors update this and the related books in the Enterprise Computing Institute Series to be consistent with the ITIL.to their best advantage, including business continuity volumes (BCVs), SRDF for remote replication, and an enterprise back-up solution such as Legato AAM will have little need for a tape librarian.<br />This book does fit in with the others in the Enterprise Computing Institute Series, so if you have been basing your infrastructure management strategy on that, then this book is an essential addition to your technical library.<br />Gaps and ommissions notwithstanding, if you work in IT operations at the management level, or are implementing the ITIL this book will flesh out some of the vague areas in other resources with respect to production control and production acceptance.  I only hope the authors update this and the related books in the Enterprise Computing Institute Series to be consistent with the ITIL.	2004-05-31
687780:US	53037408	R123DMNZ4MDKOR	0471953520	769524523	Business Processes : Modelling and Analysis for Re-Engineering and Improvement	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting approach for advanced practitioners	The STRIM (Systematic Technique for Role &amp; Interaction Modelling) approach provided in this book is a straightforward method for capturing and modeling business processes.  The book completely and thoroughly covers how to model and analyze business processes, starting with a well-written overview of concepts, then introducing STRIM and its application in various modeling scenarios.<br />As a modeling approach, STRIM and its role activity diagrams, are not mainstream.  However, they are an effective tool in the advanced practitioner's toolbox.  I especially like the way RAD (role activity diagrams) clearly and cleanly deal with parallel tasks, and the way they can be clearly depicted as concurrent execution threads even with decision points are involved.  In addition, this methodology captures interaction between and among roles.  Therein lies the power.<br />If you are new to business processing modeling it's probably safer to stick to a more established methodology, such as IDEF0 or force fit UML as your modeling approach.  A caveat about using UML is it is better suited for modeling software. However, STRIM can be used in conjunction with UML if you want a business process modeling and analysis approach and have not standardized on any other method.<br />Another aspect of this book I like is the scope of coverage - the author addresses process patterns, large processes, and even managing the modeling process itself.<br />One final point in favor of this book and its approach is the author provides no cost downloads of Process Architecture Diagrams and Role Activity Diagrams in Visio 5 format.  Those artifacts will help jumpstart any project based on the STRIM methodology.	2004-04-29
702583:US	53037408	RB8XX8FDUABEC	0815514913	802493560	William Andrew Publishing Technical Writing Series: Single Sourcing: Building Modular Documentation	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Effective and proven method	The entire approach given in this book is consistent enough with Information Mapping that it can serve as a guide to learning that highly effective technique on your own.<br />I was trained in Information Mapping in 2000 and have used the principles to excellent advantage since then.  More importantly, those techniques - called 'single sourcing' in this book -  foster the ability to create coherent documentation using geographically distributed teams.  This is because the single sourcing technique described in this book is concerned with document design, which is based on a process that identifies requirements and bases the initial draft on procedures and knowledge instead of the more common approach of writing an ad hoc outline.<br />At the heart of the author's single sourcing approach is a concept called 'chunking' - grouping information into manageable chunks - and  factors such as relevance and consistency.  When these are employed the cost-effectiveness of the method becomes apparent for two reasons:<br />(1) Documents written by teams are consistent and developed using a set process.<br />(2) Components within the documents - blocks - can be reused in other documents because they will address a specific, relevant topic (a chunk).<br />What I like about this book is the fact that it makes Information Mapping available to anyone who will take the time to read this book and apply the principles. I also like way it offers an off-the-shelf solution to any company that wants to implement a cost-effective, highly efficient documentation standard that supports readable documentation that can be used instead of 'shelfware'.<br />The best way to learn about this book is to visit the official Information Mapping site (ASIN B0000B01VZ) upon which many of the principles in this book are based.  What you will discover there will give you a reasonable idea about what to expect from the approach in this book.  If you are a technical writer who works with software architecture I also recommend that you read &quot;Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond&quot; (ISBN 0201703726) because the approach in that book is consistent with both the &quot;Single Sourcing&quot; approach, as well as Information Mapping.architecture I also recommend that you read &quot;Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond&quot; (ISBN 0201703726) because the approach in that book is consistent with both the &quot;Single Sourcing&quot; approach, as well as Information Mapping.	2004-04-17
703650:US	53037408	R1V0VOX2KS3Z60	1904151183	917080946	Practical Web Traffic Analysis: Standards, Privacy, Techniques, and Results	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Superb resource for small/medium business sites	This book is one of the most clearly written and objective resources to small to medium business site managers and marketing staff that I've read.  It does not bog the reader down in esoteric approaches to web analytics - those expensive solutions used by the Fortune 1000 - nor does it approach the subject from a purely technical perspective. Also, don't expect serach engine strategies, data mining or other topics - they are beyond the scope of this book.<br />Among the areas in the book I especially liked are:<br />- No bias towards any vendor solution.  The chapter on developing a tool for the Microsoft IIS environment was balanced by another chapter that approached tool development for Apache.  Given the large number of IIS and Apache sites, the audience for this book is wide in scope.<br />- Clear and well throughout strengths and weaknesses of various approaches to web analytics, which will allow the reader to decide the best approach given business objectives.  True, log analysis is hit or miss, but it does yield 'good enough' information for many small-to-medium businesses, and certainly for web masters/mistresses whose web site is an avocation instead of a business.  The tagging approach, also discussed in detail and the most effective for in-depth analytics, is covered in the same strength/weakness framework.<br />- Code for all examples and solutions are thoroughly dissected, and you can also download them from the publisher.  This saves time and effort, but also gives the web master/mistress a good understanding of the what's and why's.  I particularly liked the discussion of an open source tool, where to obtain it, and how to use it to best advantage.<br />If the book stopped there it would be invaluable to the audience I cited.  However, it goes much further by delving into privacy, but from a technical aspect, and from a legal one. This is valuable to site owners who have an international presence (who doesn't?), and especially with regard to EU laws governing privacy.  The technical elements of this part of the book are mainly about the use of cookies, which are treated in the same objective manner as other topics.  You will clearly understand the strengths and weaknesses, as well as possible liabilities and privacy concerns.<br />Another thing I liked about this book is the way the authors show how data can be transformed into useful business intelligence with respect to site effectiveness.  The case studies of major sites illustrate the concepts and approaches well. The experience of the authors adds credibility; for example, one of the authors spent five years at eBay, and his insights in the case study of eBay are valuable to anyone involved in web analytics, privacy and usability.<br />If you are among the audience I've cited above you will find this book to be filled with knowledge, insights and information - technical and business.  I've used it as a reference during a consulting assignment for one of the largest corporations on the planet, as well as for my own web sites I host. It's a book I can recommend without reservation.governing privacy.  The technical elements of this part of the book are mainly about the use of cookies, which are treated in the same objective manner as other topics.  You will clearly understand the strengths and weaknesses, as well as possible liabilities and privacy concerns.<br />Another thing I liked about this book is the way the authors show how data can be transformed into useful business intelligence with respect to site effectiveness.  The case studies of major sites illustrate the concepts and approaches well. The experience of the authors adds credibility; for example, one of the authors spent five years at eBay, and his insights in the case study of eBay are valuable to anyone involved in web analytics, privacy and usability.<br />If you are among the audience I've cited above you will find this book to be filled with knowledge, insights and information - technical and business.  I've used it as a reference during a consulting assignment for one of the largest corporations on the planet, as well as for my own web sites I host. It's a book I can recommend without reservation.	2004-04-16
703822:US	53037408	R2Q3LHP3KPL61U	9077212108	133296471	Microsoft Operations Framework (MOF): A Pocket Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brief-but complete-description of MOF essentials	If you are in a Microsoft-centric shop and want to remain consistent with Microsoft's approach to operations and infrastructure management this guide will get you quickly up-to-speed.  Note that the MOF is based in the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL), and is substantially aligned to it.<br />The guide is an 88-page, small format booklet (6.25&quot; x 4&quot;), and in full color.  The information on the three core models - Process, Team, and Risk - is provided in such a manner that you'll come away with a good understanding of how these models interrelate, and the key elements of each model.  In fact, the guide is a cross between an executive summary and a PowerPoint presentation, and uses graphics and tables to excellent advantage to convey the MOF without glossing over essentials and important aspects.<br />One of the authors, David Pultorak, is a well known expert in both the ITIL and MOF, which adds a great deal of credibility to this book's contents, and provides assurance that discussions comparing the ITIL and MOF common touchpoints are accurate. You can find additional articles by Mr. Pultorak at ASIN B0000X44MC.<br />Coverage of the MOF is thorough enough to give IT executives a solid understanding, and is detailed enough to provide service and support delivery personnel with a clear view of the core models and how they can be employed.	2004-04-16
704134:US	53037408	R6DE7X144MLAD	0916159302	389475617	The Warning Solution : Intelligent Analysis in the Age of Information Overload	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Info &amp; approach have wide application	Although written by an intelligence professional, this amazing book contains an approach to analyzing, assessing and distilling data into usable information that is applicable to any industry or job.<br />The theme of the book is how to discern salient information from barrage of data, and how to effectively present and use that information to best advantage.  However, two thirds of the book is devoted to collection and analysis - which is as it should be since any failures at those points in the process are going to lead to the wrong conclusions.  Among this book's best features are:<br />- A full, effective process is outlined in detail in 88 pages.  Considering the complexity of the subject and scope of the book, most authors will use that many pages for introductory material.<br />- Use of realistic case studies and personal anecdotes reinforce what is dull material by its nature.  One story that sticks in my mind is how the author and colleague managed to accurately profile a Balkans leader through their combined knowledge of history, culture and other subtle factors.<br />- Effective use of graphics to illustrate concepts.  There are not many graphics in the book, but those that have been included conveyed complex information that would have taken pages to explain.<br />As some have noted the writing is uneven.  Some passages are bogged down in near bureaucratic jargon, while others sparkle.  In spite of this, the book reads like a brisk report and is evidence of the author's years of writing and delivering briefs.<br />I've had this book for over a year, and it is one that I've recommended to colleagues, and one that has deeply influence me as a consultant and IT analyst.  In fact, this book is among the top ten books I own.  If you work with data and information in any capacity and in any industry this book will give you skills and a process-oriented approach to cope with the data smog and information barrage.	2004-04-16
704709:US	53037408	RR8T4CC1VYYVR	1929500017	858354541	The Business Case Guide	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Process-oriented approach suitable as corp guide	This book is worth every penny because it's thorough, logically sequenced, and does not go off on tangents.  It remains focused on business case development and presentation as a process, and this is what separates it from a myriad of other books on the subject.<br />Highlights include a straightforward explanation of basic financial methods and decision analysis techniques, which are augmented by graphs and charts, and tables to illustrate the concepts and practical application.  While most readers should be familiar with common cash flow analysis techniques, the clear explanations serve as a refresher.  It is the risk analysis techniques covered that may be new territory for many readers, especially those new to business case development.  This is another element that separates this book from others.<br />I particularly liked the way the author starts you out with a 3000 foot view, then drills down into all of the necessary details.  That this book is structured as a process makes it all the more valuable, especially to large organizations that are seeking to implement a standardized and repeatable business case development methodology - this book can serve as a corporate guide with little to no tailoring.<br />One of the strongest chapters is 6, &quot;Packaging, Presenting, and Using the Case&quot;, which adds strategy and salesmanship to the tactical tasks of actually developing the business case.  This chapter alone clearly shows that the author knows his stuff and is speaking from extensive experience.  In addition, the appendices are valuable in that they provide  a sample business case that illustrates the finished product, and financial metrics (cash flow, net cash flow, and cash flow stream; payback period; discounted cash flow (DCF) and net present value (NPV); return on investment (ROI)and internal rate of return (IRR).  The appendices also contain additional resources that will further aid you.<br />If you are considering this book, but are undecided because there are others that you also like, visit the author's web site (ASIN B0000AOZVH) and explore the collateral materials that will augment this book.cause there are others that you also like, visit the author's web site (ASIN B0000AOZVH) and explore the collateral materials that will augment this book.	2004-04-15
704741:US	53037408	R1NFCQRNRW6LJP	0321150392	445500227	Services Blueprint: Roadmap for Execution	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The authors &quot;get it&quot;	Despite contrived terminology, such as &quot;digitization&quot;, this book truly lives up to its title because the authors provide both a blueprint for services in today's economy, and a roadmap for making it happen. The authors stay focused on business instead of technology. More importantly, they show how to shed outmoded thinking about business processes and supporting systems, and highlights how you should be viewing the marriage of services and processes to be successful.<br />The essence of this book is in the authors' equation, Services Blueprint = Focal Point + Services + Processes + Applications. The ten core focal points given in this book clarify one or more critical success factors to any business, and the clear advice for executing to achieve objectives associated with focal points is invaluable.<br />I like the way the authors distill a set of complex, interrelated elements into a coherent approach.  For example, they breakdown service blueprints into types (three major ones); provide execution methods that aligned to organizational goals, and reinforce these using case studies from well known corporations.  In addition, the discussions of processes, application integration, and how to tie everything together into a coherent view and execution strategy is among the most realistic and clearly articulated I've come across.  I also like the way the authors support Six Sigma in the design and implementation of processes. If you are not familiar with Six Sigma, the clear and succinct treatment in the book will provide everything you need to know to understand its value.  Of course, it will not teach the associated techniques to the point where you can effectively apply them.<br />Overall, this book is cuts to the key issues and challenges to align a business to today's economy.  The approach is not only sensible and realistic, but the only one I've come across that 'gets it'.	2004-04-15
705761:US	53037408	R2X2QYPXFPSI7N	1892606186	728199893	The Internal Economy: How to Apply Market Principles within Organizations to Make Sense of Budgeting, Rate-Setting, Project-Approval, and Accounting Processes	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An IT view of a remarkable book	Although this book is applicable to any internal service in an enterprise, I'm addressing the value of this book from an IT perspective.  In a nutshell, this book provides in 110 pages more information about how to go about getting control over IT spending and governance than a pile of other books I've read.<br />What I especially like is the business within a business approach, and the clearly defined steps to implementing and managing it.  What 'sells' this approach is the hypothetical case study that starts in Chapter 2 and shows the fallacies of a typical budget cycle, and the associated pitfalls.  I cringed when I read through this case study because I've seen it repeated time and again in companies large and small.  The way the author follows up with this scenario by framing the problem, and then proceeding to provide a straightforward solution using a set of subsystems that cover budgeting, rate setting, prioritization and accounting is remarkable.  What makes it so is the fact that the solution can be implemented in any organization, and is almost guaranteed to pay big dividends in efficiency, effectiveness, and customer satisfaction in a relatively short period.<br />Another aspect of this book that I like is the discussion about chargebacks.  This is a topic that arises in IT shops, and is typically implemented with little thought - or erroneous assumptions.  This short discussion alone will make this book worthwhile to CIOs.<br />The internal economy approach is based, in part, on activity based budgeting, which is a subject that merits  its own book -is one of the most succinct and illuminating I've read. The author takes this topic from theory to practicality by providing a clear roadmap about how to effectively use it in an enterprise of any size. Interestingly, the approach also aligns nicely to earned value project management, which makes this book especially valuable to project-based organizations.<br />Speaking as an IT consultant who specializes in IT operations process improvement and service level management, I think this is one of the most important books for any consultant or IT manager concerned with effective service delivery.  It truly does contain a solution to the thorny problems of IT/business alignment and providing value to internal customers.s in IT operations process improvement and service level management, I think this is one of the most important books for any consultant or IT manager concerned with effective service delivery.  It truly does contain a solution to the thorny problems of IT/business alignment and providing value to internal customers.	2004-04-15
709071:US	53037408	RHIH1524HIEB6	0387951326	755806447	Guide to Enterprise IT Architecture (Springer Professional Computing)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent secondary text on architecture	This book describes the Open Group's Architecture Framework, which is a structured approach to developing an architecture based on a sequence of steps outlined in their architecture development method.<br />The book sets the context for architecture in general in the first three chapters, covering an introduction to technical architectures in general, addressing specific issues related to architecture with respect to business alignment, technologies, cost factors, etc.; and delving into the business foundation that [should] drive the architecture.<br />Subsequent chapters cover each step in the architecture development method in detail.  Specific steps are:<br />Phase A: Architecture Vision: Define scope; create vision; obtain approvals<br />Phase B: Business Architecture: Develop a Business Architecture<br />Phase C: Information System Architectures: Develop Data and Applications Architectures<br />Phase D: Technology Architecture: Develop a Technology Architecture<br />Phase E: Opportunities and Solutions: Checkpoint suitability for implementation<br />Phase F: Migration Planning: Prioritize work; Select major work packages; Develop migration plan Phase G: Implementation Governance: Provide architectural oversight of the implementation<br />Phase H: Architecture Change Management: Establish procedures for managing change to new architecture<br />Although this book covers an approach to architecture that is not mainstream, it is viable and well developed.  I especially like the clearly articulated description and detail, which are reinforced with illustrations that bring the text to life. Moreover, the authors pay attention to all life cycle factors, particularly maintenance and post implementation support.  Additional information about the Open Group Architecture Framework can be found on the sponsoring web site (ASIN B00006G0R7).<br />This book is, in my opinion, a secondary text on architectures and more suited to seasoned system and technical architects who are seeking to expand their knowledge of architecture methods.  The approach set forth can be applied to the development and implementation of any architecture, making this book an asset to the discipline's body of knowledge.xpand their knowledge of architecture methods.  The approach set forth can be applied to the development and implementation of any architecture, making this book an asset to the discipline's body of knowledge.	2004-04-13
709081:US	53037408	RFR2GM2R49UEB	0201709457	701378918	Software Quality Assurance: From Theory to Implementation	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Solid college text + real world reference	Although written as a college text (the publisher also has instructor manual, syllabus and discussion guidelines, and test material), this book sufficiently reflects real world SQA to be used by working practitioners. My review focus is on the latter use.<br />Chapters that will be of interest to real world SQA include Chapter 3. Software Quality Factors (excellent foundation for a metrics initiative), Chapter 5. Contract Review (checklists for proposal and contract review are excellent), Chapters 7 (Integrating Quality Activities in the Project Life Cycle - especially the model for SQA defect removal effectiveness and cost) and 8 (Reviews, which includes supporting templates), and Chapter 11. Assuring The Quality of Software Maintenance, which is an often overlooked aspect of SQA.<br />Note that this book has been written to support ISO 9001 and contains chapters that are specifically slanted towards that approach.  Included are chapters on document and configuration control, auditing, and attaining ISO 9001 certification.  The author also provides solid information on ISO/IEC Quality Assurance standards, IEEE/ANSI Standards, and MIL-STD-498, as well as on common assessment approaches (CMM and SPICE).<br />As a textbook the coverage of every facet of SQA from why and what, to testing, metrics and its role in organizations and projects are thoroughly covered.  The fact that the material is up-to-date and truly reflects the real world makes this one of the better texts for college level courses because it does prepare students for roles as practitioners.	2004-04-13
730919:US	53037408	REY75JQ782OE	0619064463	953770173	Enterprise Architecture Using the Zachman Framework (MIS)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Excellent book; approach Zachman Framework w/caution	This is more of a &quot;What&quot; than a &quot;How&quot; book, and it does clearly [if somewhat verbosely] describe the Zachman Framework.  It also provides implementation advice (the &quot;How&quot;), but that information is not as clearly laid out as it is in &quot;Enterprise Architecture Planning&quot; (ISBN 0471599859).<br />I like this book because it is business-focused, and painstakingly describes the Zachman Framework and how it clearly provides a multidimensional view of business-technology alignment. It also reflects the latest thinking with respect to the framework, including Zachman DNA (Depth iNtegrating Architecture), which is missing from &quot;Enterprise Architecture Planning&quot; I cited above.  It also contains some unique perspectives that I haven't found in other books, such as how to use the framework outside of IT (Appendix C), and how to map careers to the framework (Appendix D).<br />What is missing from this book, and others like it, is a disclosure of the dark side of the framework if an organization fully commits to it.  One such problem is once you've mapped your enterprise architecture to the Zachman Framework's matrix, a change in any cell will cause a ripple effect throughout the matrix.  As time goes on this effect becomes a barrier to changes or requires high maintenance to keep the architecture in synch with the business and technology components. This does not diminish the value of the Zachman Framework as a way to view the enterprise, but should forewarn you that implementing it as a principle methodology is a step that should be carefully considered before committing.<br />That said, this book is one I would highly recommend to anyone who is considering the Zachman Framework, or who is seeking an approach to clearly viewing an enterprise from multiple dimensions in order to cut through complexity and see the big picture.  I also recommend that you visit the Zachman Institute (see ASIN B00016NEXI) to see the latest work and additional information.additional information.	2004-03-26
731001:US	53037408	RPDV23NEYSXTG	193215924X	616999696	ROI of Software Process Improvement: Metrics for Project Managers and Software Engineers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Provides tools/techniques to assess SPI value	It's a safe bet that most readers who are interested in determining the return on investment of a software process improvement initiative have stumbled upon the author's web site at one point.  The material that comprises this excellent book is a distillation of Mr. Rico's extensive work in this area, and is one of the most useful and complete books on the subject.<br />He begins by providing a context for both software process improvement and its associated ROI. The introduction answers the who, what, how and why of ROI of software process improvement (SPI), and the methods, principles and pitfalls of measuring it.  The next chapter drills down into SPI itself in which he answers the who, what, why and how questions. This segues into a chapter that surveys the major SPI approaches (Software inspection process, Personal and Team Software Processes, CMM and CMMI, and ISO 9001).  These establish the foundation for the heart of the book - three chapters, each dealing with a specific method (ROI analysis, benefit analysis, and cost analysis.<br />After thoroughly covering each analysis method the subsequent chapters focus on how they are applied to the SPI models.  Here he uses a set format that addresses the following methods:<br />- Cost Methodology<br />- Benefit Methodology<br />- B/CR Methodology<br />- ROI% Methodology<br />- NPV Methodology<br />- Breakeven Point Methodology<br />Next are chapters that cross-reference the above by individually discussing in separate chapters costs, benefits, cost/benefit ratios, ROI, NPV and breakeven analysis.  Here the format for each of these chapters is:<br />- Software Inspection Process<br />- Personal Software Process<br />- Team Software Process<br />- Software Capability Maturity Model<br />- ISO 9001<br />- Capability Maturity Model Integration<br />Finally, the book provides yet another view by addressing analysis of return on investment, optimizing return on investment, and future of software process improvement, rounding out the dimensions.<br />This book is more about how to examine the return on investment of SPI, using proven tools and techniques, and drawing your own conclusions that reflect your organization, constraints and opportunities.  In addition to the exhaustive examination of all facets of SPI ROI, you can also download invaluable tools and artifacts from the publisher's web site, including: ROI high-level and detailed models, and ISO 9001 and SW-CMM cost model (all in Microsoft Excel format).  You can also download an additional ROI article in MS Word format that augments this book. This book, plus these value-added artifacts, are invaluable to any practitioner who is examining the true benefits of SPI.the dimensions.  <br />This book is more about how to examine the return on investment of SPI, using proven tools and techniques, and drawing your own conclusions that reflect your organization, constraints and opportunities.  In addition to the exhaustive examination of all facets of SPI ROI, you can also download invaluable tools and artifacts from the publisher's web site, including: ROI high-level and detailed models, and ISO 9001 and SW-CMM cost model (all in Microsoft Excel format).  You can also download an additional ROI article in MS Word format that augments this book. This book, plus these value-added artifacts, are invaluable to any practitioner who is examining the true benefits of SPI.	2004-03-26
731299:US	53037408	R1K767TR5XMPCL	0849314046	32060986	Using the Common Criteria for IT Security Evaluation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Augments official docs &amp; adds realistic approach	Although you can obtain the full and most up-to-date documentation for Common Criteria from NIST's Computer Security Resource Center (see ASIN B0001O48Y4), wading through it and transforming the information into an approach is a daunting task. This book distills the Common Criteria key elements and shows how to employ it to implement a security layer that is based on protection profiles aligned to targets of evaluation.<br />First, a burning question - do you need this book?  Or, more specifically, should you use Common Criteria as an approach?  If your organization is required to conform to ISO/IEC 15408, or you are a large enterprise with a mature security program, or are planning to employ the Common Criteria as an evaluation approach then this book will prove to be helpful.<br />What separates this book from the publicly available documentation is the way the authors use practical and realistic examples to step you through the intricacies and complexities of the techniques.  They also present the material is a logical sequence that is focused on what is essential, and do so without missing steps or key information.<br />The book provides a background of Common Criteria, and an overview that includes the what's and why's, and how it relates to other standards.  They then systematically lead you through how to develop protection profiles, identifying targets of evaluation, developing a security architecture, and performing verification.  In addition, this book covers security certification and accreditation, security target evaluation (ASE), vulnerability analysis and penetration testing (AVA), service contracts and other topics germane to Common Criteria that are scattered throughout the official documentation.<br />Bottom line - this book will not replace or supplant the official documentation, but nicely augments it by providing a succinct description of relevant information and key activities, and how to use them in the real world.	2004-03-26
734072:US	53037408	R20POKSRE3EMYZ	1580534872	156555721	Systematic Process Improvement Using ISO 9001:2000 and CMMI(sm)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Interesting integration of two major quality frameworks	This book is also available as an e-book (see ISBN B0000AJ68G).  Regardless of which format you choose, the content is one of the best descriptions of ISO 9001:2000 and the CMMI - and how to use them as an integrated approach to achieve a high level of capability maturity.<br />The authors provide a summary of process improvement approaches, including  frameworks and interrelationships among them.  There is excellent background information on the CMMI and how it evolved from the older CMM.  This also includes early work by the FAA with its iCMM approach.<br />In the parts of the book dealing with ISO 9001 the authors show the key differences between ISO 9001:94 and ISO 9001:2000, and provide a context and value proposition for them.  The significant changes between the 1994 and 2000 versions of ISO 9001 are covered in detail.  W<br />Another key feature of this book is the section on making the transition from legacy standards.  This is where the differences between CMM and CMMI, and ISO 9001:1994 and ISO 9001:2000 are clearly highlighted. If you are currently operating under either the older CMM or ISO 9001:94 framework, this section of the book also provides clear guidance for making the transition to the CMMI and ISO 9001:2000.  This guidance is in the form of a five-step approach for either implementing anew, or making the transition from a legacy framework - (1) initiating, (2) diagnosing, (3)establishing, (4) acting, and (5) learning. The authors also provide ISO 9001:2000-&gt;CMMI and CMMI-&gt;ISO 9001:2000 document mapping, which will cut through the maze and show how to reduce unnecessary documentation by integrating documentation where possible.<br />The authors have produced a book that is exceptionally well written, clarifies two complex frameworks, and shows how they can be used in conjunction with one another.	2004-03-24
734527:US	53037408	RXSE3AFIO16MZ	0321154967	291395309	CMMI(R): Guidelines for Process Integration and Product Improvement	Books	5	23	28	N	N	More convenient &amp; easier to use than official docs	This book does two things well - (1) provides an overview of the CMMI and its benefits, and (2) covers the process areas in detail, with advice on how to institutionalize them.  This is not a 'how to implement' book, and is best suited for anyone who wants to learn about the CMMI or who is working in a CMMI organization and wants an authoratative reference on a specific process area.<br />Reasons to buy this book instead of obtaining the 'official documentation' from SEI (see ASIN B0000Y4PCA)include:<br />- Better organized. Finding specific information among the documents you can obtain from SEI can sometimes be a daunting task.  Yes, it's complete, but there are multiple documents, and this book has distilled and organized all of the pertinent information between two covers.<br />- Case studies in this book add life to the material, and the overall writing style of all of the material in this book is more readable.  The SEI document set includes some well-written material to be sure, but there is also dense text that is a chore to wade through from a readability standpoint.<br />For understanding the CMMI this book is one of the best, in my opinion. It gives the evolution of the CMMI from the earlier CMM models, discusses key benefits, and goes into details. However, if you already understand the CMMI, and are seeking information for implementation I recommend &quot;Interpreting the CMMI: A Process Improvement Approach&quot; (ISBN 0849316545). That book outlines how to implement the CMMI and provides a wealth of supporting material.	2004-03-24
737183:US	53037408	RIT0N0W52T7PL	0471227331	723611833	Making Technology Investments Profitable: ROI Roadmap to Better Business Cases	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Raises the bar in business case development	I have a pile of books that address the same subject and would not have picked this one up if a colleague had not persistently badgered me into reading it. Instead of yet another tome on business cases, ROI and value, I discovered what to me is the absolute best book on the following three areas:<br />(1) business case development - the authors shine here by showing how to craft a realistic business case that does look at the important factors and benefits.  More importantly, you're shown how NOT to write a business case, and common problems with too many business cases that are presented (and all-too-often accepted).  This aspect of the book alone raises the bar in business case development.<br />(2) properly computing ROI that is real - in many organizations ROI is a forbidden word and NPV used instead. One reason for this is it's rarely computed correctly. Before reading this book I used ROI as a quick and dirty gage, but always looked to NPV as the deciding factor when exploring the feasibility to a project or solution.  The way the authors expose fallacies of improper ROI computation, and how to avoid them is invaluable, and will restore credibility to ROI as a realistic indicator.<br />(3) assuring value - the  VALUE-on-Demand approach the authors propose is a straightforward method for evaluating, selecting and prioritizing projects.  This methodology has no flaws that I can find, and will add structure, clarity and process to governance.<br />Regardless of your experience, there is much to learn from this book.  It can serve as a company 'how-to' guide and standard as is with little-to-no tailoring, and represents the best book I own on business case development and determining ROI.  It's also one of the best books on establishing a viable governance program I've read.	2004-03-22
737291:US	53037408	R1CKXYE1LKKHVQ	0849316545	126152398	Interpreting the CMMI (R): A Process Improvement Approach	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Complete, consistent with SEI &amp; realistic	If you want to truly understand the CMMI, its benefits, and a frank discussion of the challenges you'll encounter when implementing it, this book is worth its weight in gold.<br />First, it distills all of the information you can freely download from SEI (see ASIN B0000Y4PCA) into a more manageable volume that is sequenced for understanding both the CMMI and how to implement it.  While the SEI documentation is complete and comprehensive, it is also information overload.<br />Second, this book does not conflict with SEI's documentation.  In addition to being consistent with it, it also provides assessment and implementation techniques that SEI developed and recommends, such as the Standard CMMI Appraisal Method for Process Improvement (SCAMPI).<br />Third, this book comes with a CD ROM with checklists and templates that will greatly aid in implementation.<br />The book is structured into three parts - (1) an introduction, which is fairly generic, (2) a detailed description of CMMI process areas for levels 2-5, and (3) an implementation approach that is complete and realistic. I like the fact that the challenges of implementing CMMI are covered, as well as a sensible discussion of whether the CMMI is right for your organization.  This is a nice contrast with books that proclaim the CMMI to be absolutely necessary without regard to business and organizational realities.<br />Material in the 17 appendices add further value to this book. In addition to the checklists and templates, this collected information also discusses metrics and related topics that did not merit a chapter in the body of the book. If you are implementing the CMMI you'll find this book to be a perfect resource in the discovery and elaboration phases of the project, and an excellent guide during the implementation.	2004-03-21
737852:US	53037408	R2KLQ71LCISWB4	0849321093	52426358	Real Process Improvement Using the CMMI	Books	5	44	49	N	N	Unexpected gem - read before leaping!	If you're expecting a book that shows how to implement the CMMI, or even one that gushes about its benefits you're in for a surprise.  Yes, this book does show how to achieve process improvement by using the CMMI as a model, but it differs greatly from the recipe approaches of similar books that will have you marching over a cliff instead of improving your organization. The author does this by uncovering fallacies and the blind paths the CMMI (or any process improvement initiative) represents.<br />Here's what to expect from this book, and why you should read it cover-to-cover before embarking on a CMMI implementation or other process improvement initiative.  How to spot and avoid common pitfalls such as:<br />- focusing on the process instead of the benefits, which of course, can be counterproductive when the process itself is applied blindly and without regard for real efficiency.<br />- avoiding the 'when all you have is a hammer everything looks like a nail' effect; i.e., attempting to apply the CMMI to everything<br />- mis-diagnosing problems with the process and applying the wrong solution; for example, scope creep in a project causes a reaction that often results in claims that the requirements management process is broken when the real problem is a lack of discipline or standards (not the same as a process)<br />Besides showing what does not work, and forcing you to look at your real goals before embarking on a CMMI implementation or process improvement initiative, the author leads you through a realistic appraisal of your goals and objectives, and shows you how to accomplish them.  He is a strong proponent of using a systems view, and shows how to apply systems thinking principles to achieving your goals and objectives.  This is the real value of this book, and why it's a sanity check for any organization that is about to embark on any improvement initiative.<br />Of course, if you are going to implement the CMMI, in whole or relevant parts to improve your capability, this book provides a clear roadmap for doing just that.  Do not let my previous remarks lead you to believe that this book is anti-CMMI because it's not.  It's merely anti-unrealism.<br />Regardless of your end goals, much of the material in this book applies to any activity, from strategic planning to process improvement to embracing a methodology.  It's one of the best books I've read, and one that anyone contemplating CMMI should read before they read anything else about that model.ur capability, this book provides a clear roadmap for doing just that.  Do not let my previous remarks lead you to believe that this book is anti-CMMI because it's not.  It's merely anti-unrealism. <br />Regardless of your end goals, much of the material in this book applies to any activity, from strategic planning to process improvement to embracing a methodology.  It's one of the best books I've read, and one that anyone contemplating CMMI should read before they read anything else about that model.	2004-03-21
737971:US	53037408	R3HWJP5C5Y4B3M	0471211656	942221215	Mission-Critical Security Planner: When Hackers Won't Take No for an Answer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique and on the mark	This book, especially if used in conjunction with the author's web site (see ASIN B0000C7RBX), is one of the most valuable additions to the IT security profession that I've read.  My reasons for making this bold statement include:<br />- The book provides a coherent and focused approach to developing and implementing a security plan. You can find numerous books on writing and implementing policies and procedures, or establishing a security posture, but this is the first book I've read that steps you through the process of conceiving, implementing and keeping alive a viable security plan.<br />- By separating the process into three distinct domains (referred to as 'stacks') you ensure that your plan encompasses and integrates the technology, process and business elements into a coherent strategy.<br />- Artifacts in the form of a complete set of worksheets provide a set of tools that give a framework and speed up the planning process.<br />The planning approach set forth in the book is straightforward and realistic - you're led through the preliminaries, which includes conceiving a plan that matches your needs, and selling the plan to sponsors (an often overlooked, but essential activity when fighting for budget).  The next step is to perform an impact analysis, and this is where the book shines, because the author focuses on business issues instead of technology.  This promotes awareness and goes a long way towards getting buy-in and funding, as well as laying a solid foundation for a long-term security plan. Next the author shows how to select the correct security model and avoid common pitfalls.  These lead to building organizational consensus - buy-in from all stakeholders.  The difference between this step and the preliminary step of selling to a sponsor and obtaining funding, which is vertical, you need to promote the plan horizontally as well.  The final steps are to implement and continuously refine the plan.<br />Of course, the overview above only describes the approach contained within the book. There is much more to commend it, such as clear writing, superb page design that portrays information in graphs, illustrations and tables, and the details the author provides.  There is not a single statement or recommendation that is unsupported, and the material is both sensible and accurate.the approach contained within the book. There is much more to commend it, such as clear writing, superb page design that portrays information in graphs, illustrations and tables, and the details the author provides.  There is not a single statement or recommendation that is unsupported, and the material is both sensible and accurate.	2004-03-21
739704:US	53037408	R23A23XHCJOKIR	158705079X	780145724	Practical Service Level Management: Delivering High-Quality Web-Based Services	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Merges tools &amp; process + sound SLM practices	This book addresses service level management at the tools level, but does not lose sight of the service and support delivery aspects of SLM as a discipline.  This is a refreshing change from related books that focus on QoS, tools and instrumentation, and other technical details while skimming over the business objectives and process. More importantly, the material goes beyond network management aspects that characterize similar books by addressing SLM at the higher level of delivering web services.<br />The first three chapters clearly explain service level management as a business goal, and as a set of processes which support those goals.  The material on metrics is among the best I've read and cover both the technical and business domains.<br />Chapters 4 through 9 systematically address each component and domain in the technical infrastructure, including approaches (such as policy-based management), key process areas augmented by technology (event management and realtime operations), and support delivery areas augmented by technology (application, server and transport infrastructure management). In all areas technology and process are integrated, and important metrics, issues and challenges are discussed.<br />In chapters 10 and 11 the authors cover performance and capacity management with excellent material on load testing (Chapter 10), and modeling and capacity planning (Chapter 11).  These topics are critical to an effective and comprehensive service level management posture, yet are often overlooked in many books, or are glossed over. Here the authors go into the same detail that characterizes the preceding chapters.<br />The final three chapters cover implementation from making the business case to providing a viable implementation plan.<br />This book is clearly aimed at technical professionals who design and implement tools supporting SLM; however, there is excellent material for professionals who work at the process level.  Both groups will benefit greatly from this book, especially since in many organizations they work independently of one another.  Another compelling reason to read this book is the material is consistent with the ITIL, as well as providing sound thinking and best practices in general service level management.atly from this book, especially since in many organizations they work independently of one another.  Another compelling reason to read this book is the material is consistent with the ITIL, as well as providing sound thinking and best practices in general service level management.	2004-03-19
740982:US	53037408	R1LN9TDN6D40PM	0782143202	903794891	Effective Software Test Automation: Developing an Automated Software Testing Tool	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A significant contribution to the software QA profession	Before proceeding you need to know that this book is specific to the Microsoft .NET environment, and is not a general book on test automation. That said, this is possibly one of the most important books recently published on the subject for those who develop for Microsoft technologies.  Moreover, the tool it leads you through developing is worth many times the price of the book.  The best way to describe this book's strengths and benefits is to align them to three different classes of reader who will benefit the most:<br />(1) developers or QA practitioners who need to quickly implement a testing tool that dramatically reduces the time it takes to execute test cycles.  This book will service this audience as a technical manual for the tool, which can be downloaded in source and binary formats from the publisher's web site.<br />(2) developers who want a baseline tool that can be extended and modified to suit their specific needs, or to be integrated into (or augment) a suite of existing testing tools.  The clear explanation of how this tool was designed and the code that makes up the tool will easily meet this audience segment's needs. More importantly, the book even shows how to develop assemblies with which to test the tool.<br />(3) developers who want to improve their own skills by examining an integrated application that has been engineered by experts.  The tool upon which this book is based is one of the most elegantly designed and implemented examples of good programming practices and software engineering.  Not only does it show how to harness some of the capabilities of the .NET framework and associated IDE, but also shows how to integrate into Microsoft Office applications and create a seamless enterprise application.  The tool in this book is integrated into Microsoft Excel (version 2000), and the concepts, use of XML, and the way everything is tied into a coherent application that provides useful services exemplify how to develop business applications.<br />The tool itself is one of the most useful and clever test automation approaches I've seen in any environment.  It auto-discovers what must be tested, and develops test scripts with virtually no intervention on the part of QA.  It also dramatically reduces test time, and will significantly contribute to the deployment of defect-free applications, especially in a rapid development environment (such as those shops using extreme programming or agile methods).  While the tool will not completely replace other testing tools, it will nicely augment them.  I think the best use of this tool is in the development domain to be used for unit and integration testing.  It also supports incremental regression testing, which can be effectively executed by the build manager before promoting to QA for final test and release.  Of course, this tool will also fit nicely within the QA domain, especially with its ability to support both white- and black-box testing.<br />In combination this book and the associated tool are, in my opinion, important contributions to the QA profession, and to teams working with Microsoft technologies.br />The tool itself is one of the most useful and clever test automation approaches I've seen in any environment.  It auto-discovers what must be tested, and develops test scripts with virtually no intervention on the part of QA.  It also dramatically reduces test time, and will significantly contribute to the deployment of defect-free applications, especially in a rapid development environment (such as those shops using extreme programming or agile methods).  While the tool will not completely replace other testing tools, it will nicely augment them.  I think the best use of this tool is in the development domain to be used for unit and integration testing.  It also supports incremental regression testing, which can be effectively executed by the build manager before promoting to QA for final test and release.  Of course, this tool will also fit nicely within the QA domain, especially with its ability to support both white- and black-box testing.<br />In combination this book and the associated tool are, in my opinion, important contributions to the QA profession, and to teams working with Microsoft technologies.	2004-03-18
741197:US	53037408	R34IBTV7DEJC1M	1580534805	76642095	Testing and Quality Assurance for Component-Based Software (Artech House Computer Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	May be the only book on the topic; also applies to web svcs.	This book provides a thorough and detailed discussion of the key differences between testing and QA for 'monolithic' or integrated software, and component-based software engineering.<br />The distinction is important because while the reason to go with a component-based approach is reusability and leveraging developer efforts across a number of applications or products can also introduce widespread problems across a range of systems.  This book shows how to approach testing and QA in a manner that eliminates this problem.  The approach itself includes validation methods that need to be rigorously applied, and a detailed quality assurance approach that includes testing, certification and verification after the validation layer is completed.<br />In addition to a coherent approach, the authors discuss specific methods, automated testing tools, testing frameworks, and specifics about test cycles that apply to component-based software.  Overall, this book provides a complete picture of the differences between conventional and component-based software, challenges and solutions to meet those challenges.<br />While the value of this book will be readily apparent to anyone who is working in a component-based software engineering environment, it is also invaluable to the growing number of project teams and shops developing and implementing web services.  There is much commonality shared between component-based software and web services, and the principles and approach given in this book will apply equally to both.	2004-03-18
741758:US	53037408	R3V8BCF2I2EBNW	0875846513	129715450	The Balanced Scorecard: Translating Strategy into Action	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Book that spawned a core business approach	This book is a seminal work that has significantly affected the way businesses frame and execute strategy.<br />In a nutshell, the authors show you how to view your business strategy, drivers and key indicators in four dimensions - financial, external (customer satisfaction), internal (processes) and learning/growth.  They then show you how to link these to your strategies and develop and execute plan for transforming them into action and results.<br />The good and the bad. First, the good - before Kaplan and Norton published this book there was no standardized method for framing and measuring what's important. This book rectifies that. Also, the ideas first introduced have been embraced and extended to the point that a book search of similar titles returns over 2600 hits, and a google search using 'balanced scorecard' as a keyword returns ten time that many.  This is a clear indication of how influential this book is and remains eight years after publication. But those are simple statistics.  What's important about this book is many of the other resources that have sprang from it assume that you are familiar with the concepts and approach in this book.<br />The bad - the writing style, as noted by others is ponderous. That does not diminish the concepts and approach.  It is also showing its age, but only because of the body of work that this book has inspired, which has greatly extended and refined the basic ideas.  You will still need to read this book to get the most out of the body of work that is based upon it.  Also note that even Kaplan and Norton, the authors, have extended this work into strategy maps and a 'strategy-focused organization' paradigm.<br />Overall this book has - and will continue to - influence thinking. The ideas set forth are still evolving and have been embraced by some of the largest (and smallest) companies on the planet.  If you are new to this material I recommend visiting Balanced Scorecard Institute (ASIN B00006CKQ2) for introductory information, and Balanced Scorecard Online (ASIN B00006DBZ5) for more detailed material.ory information, and Balanced Scorecard Online (ASIN B00006DBZ5) for more detailed material.	2004-03-18
742581:US	53037408	RS68BFM05ASZK	0470857447	868759430	Innocent Code: A Security Wake-Up Call for Web Programmers	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Focused info for developers more than security pros	This book is similar in many respects to Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense (ISBN 0201761769).  While that book was aimed at security professionals who needed to understand the exposures and vulnerabilities in web systems that were commonly exploited by the bad guys and gals, this book is aimed more at developers.<br />Like for former book, this one systematically covers exposures and vulnerabilities, and provides remedies at the code level. What sets this book apart is every component of a modern web site, from web server to backend database is covered, problem areas from a developer's perspective are highlighted, and solutions for resolving the problem areas given.  I like this book because developers, from casual hobbyists to professionals, will easily grasp the information.  More importantly, the material is not insultingly simple to experienced developers, nor is it over the head of less experienced ones.<br />Another reason I like this book is in systematically uncovering exposures the QA team can also use this book as a sourcebook for developing a baseline set of test cases that will catch security-related problems during acceptance, functional qualification, or regression test cycles.<br />In my opinion not only should web developers (including DBAs) and QA professionals read this book, but it should also be adopted by development organizations and projects as a part of coding standards.	2004-03-17
743132:US	53037408	R200GP6FMW2BR0	0471227145	848046857	Implementing Backup and Recovery: The Readiness Guide for the Enterprise	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Amazing general resource despite vendor-centric approach	I don't normally find value in general topic books that use a specific product to illustrate concepts; however, this book is an exception. The authors thoroughly cover all of the issues associated with back-up and recovery, including those related to business continuity, disaster recovery, and the affect that back-up and recovery has on service and availability.<br />Given the pervasiveness of both UNIX (including Linux), and Windows, I like the fact that both operating systems are addressed in the book.  I am firmly in the UNIX camp, but it's nearly impossible to find a Linux or UNIX shop that doesn't have at least some critical applications running on Windows servers.<br />Of course, if you use Netbackup this book is going to be all the more valuable; however, if you don't, do not let the fact that the authors base the concepts and examples on this product dissuade you from buying this book.  It is one of the best books on back-up and recovery issues and challenges, regardless of vendor solution used.	2004-03-17
743458:US	53037408	R1RZYCZHUENBND	0135537770	985695651	Information Management: Organization, Management and Control of Computer Processing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gems among the archaic - worth reading	By computer book standards this text, first published in 1992, is ancient. Indeed, some of the information and methods are outdated to the point of being quaint; however, parts of this book are not only relevant today, but the information imparted is hard to find elsewhere.  Reasons why parts of this book are still valid and important today include:<br />- Part Two, Control of Processing, contains highly useful techniques. In the chapter on quality control the discussion of how quality control relates to data collection, preparation and processing - and the controls - are invaluable.  The techniques for validation are as useful to operational support staff as they are to QA staff, and are rarely discussed in current literature. The entire chapter devoted to performance evaluation and auditing is another part of this book that is applicable to modern, web-enabled systems.  Applying the approach and techniques to contemporary systems would significantly improve reliability, availability and support objectives.<br />- Part 3, Management of Processing, is filled with useful techniques for scheduling batch processes (highly important in modern environments that employ data warehouses and data marts), system maintenance, and budgeting.  In addition, the chapter on managing resistance to change contains insightful information and advice in that thorny area.<br />There are gems scattered in other sections of this book that will provide you with ideas that have stood the test of time.  I found useful information in the chapters on computer personnel and oversight of computing. While some of the material does not work in a modern environment, these chapters are interlaced with material that does. If you're involved in reorganizing IT you'll find good ideas.  Another chapter that is out of date, but has some useful information, is Chapter 8, Privacy and Security.  The methods are outdated, but the concepts are still valid and clearly presented.<br />Overall, this book contains a lot of information that is either erroneous by today's standards (the use of Halon, for example), but a wealth of techniques that are quickly becoming a lost art.  It's worth purchasing and mining for the gems.a lot of information that is either erroneous by today's standards (the use of Halon, for example), but a wealth of techniques that are quickly becoming a lost art.  It's worth purchasing and mining for the gems.	2004-03-16
743673:US	53037408	R2G4FU8VXUUAFL	0818676450	3742680	Applying Software Metrics (Practitioners)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Practical and rich with information on the subject	This book is a coherent collection of articles covering the whys, whats and hows of applying software metrics. Unlike other books that are actually compendiums, this one reads and is structured as though a single author wrote it.  Moreover, it is not high-level theory, but a practical book that thoroughly explains how to actually apply software metrics.<br />Chapter 1, &quot;Why Measure&quot; contains seven articles by industry experts that make a strong case for measurement and its benefits.  The three most important articles are Software Risk Management by Barry W. Boehm, Successfully Applying Software Metrics by Robert B. Grady, and Using Metrics to Manage Software Projects by Edward F. Weller.  Readers familiar with top experts in the field will recognize the names of the authors, which indicates the highly credible material.<br />What to measure is covered in Chapter 2, and of the five articles, &quot;Software Metrics in the Process Maturity Framework&quot; by Shari Lawrence Pfleeger and Clement McGowan is (in my opinion) the most useful.  Chapters 3 (How is Measuring Done?) and 4 (How are Metrics Used?) collectively contain eleven articles, and it is in these chapters where the most practical information is imparted.  Among the articles I found especially useful and practical are - Key Lessons in Achieving Widespread Inspection Use by Robert B. Grady and Tom Van Slack, A Case Study in SQA Audits by Paul W. Oman, and Using Metrics to Evaluate Software System Maintainability. The book ends with the five articles in Chapter 5, which address how to improve a metrics program.  Each of the articles provides insights into one or more aspects of a software metrics program process improvement initiative.<br />This book is better suited to software engineering managers and SQA professionals. Because the material presented is not deeply technical, and supports making a business case for implementing a software metrics program, this book is also valuable to IT managers and CIOs.d CIOs.	2004-03-16
743933:US	53037408	R165P6WC0BERBU	0849398223	872490467	Systems Development Handbook, Fourth Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent compendium - some material outdated	This book is a compendium of monographs, each written by an industry expert, that cover all major topic areas in the development life cycle.  It is divided into twelve sections ranging from Management and Planning to Post Development Administration.  While the monographs have been carefully grouped, and the book benefits from consistent editing to form a coherent volume of practices, some of the topics are either weak or out-of-date.  However, there are key topics that represent some of the best thinking in both software engineering and service delivery.  Among the ones I found best are:<br />- All of Section I, covering project communications, requirements management and managing outsourcing risks.<br />- Section III, especially the emphasis on reuse, objects and metrics.  A gem in this section is &quot;Web-Based Customer Self Service: Justifying and Planning Applications&quot;.<br />- &quot;Creating Effective Batch SQL Jobs&quot; in Section IV addresses an often overlooked real world challenge.<br />- Sections IX (Quality and Productivity Initiatives) and X (Leveraging Staff Resources) are especially relevant to any organization.  A highlight in Section X is &quot;A Worksheet for Goals and Skills Assessment&quot;.<br />- Sections XI (Supporting Existing Software) and XII (Post Development Administration) add considerable value to this book by addressing a range of topics not normally found in books about development or software engineering - or are usually given brief treatment.  These two sections should be read and taken to heart by the project and development teams delivering applications to service and support. It will bridge what in too many organizations is a wide chasm.<br />Each section is followed by a checklist, which can be used by practitioners to ensure that there are no major gaps in their own organizational processes.  The best use of this book is as an organizational reference with a copy in for each project manager, process improvement group, and development group.development group.	2004-03-16
744044:US	53037408	R23LSRGYGB0WXA	3540417850	109967028	Managing the Change: Software Configuration and Change Management: Software Best Practice 2	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For advanced practitioners only - not a 'how to' book	This book is for advanced practitioners seeking ideas and best practices. It is not a 'how to' book, or even an overview of SCM and CM, but a collection of findings from the European Experience Exchange (EUREX) project.<br />The book is divided into three parts:<br />PART I covers how the topic relates to software process improvement,the European Systems and Software Initiative, and EUREX.  Subjects covered include types of projects, stand alone assessments, and process improvement experiments (PIEs).  These are aligned to EUXEX-specific approaches, which are the foundation of the book, and include: EUREX taxonomy, analysis and assessment of PIEs, and classification into problem domains.<br />PART II, &quot;Managing the Change: Configuration Management, Change Management&quot;, is the heart of the book.  The main areas addressed include: domain overview, risks and benefits, process input-output-activities, process management, SCM plan, impact of configuration management, role of control boards in configuration management, resources for practitioners, and methods and tools.  Most of this material is handled in less than a page per sub topic.  The remainder of this part of the book goes deeper into details regarding the connection of SCM and CM to quality, which are directly related to various process improvement experiments.<br />Part III is a collection of the Process Improvement Experiments in the form of report summaries.  These are short and comprise over a third of the book.<br />For those new to SCM and CM I recommend &quot;Software Configuration Management&quot; by Jessica Keyes (ISBN 0849319765) instead of this book because Keyes' book explains the nuts and bolts, and shows how to implement and manage SCM/CM.  However, if your area of expertise is SCM (or CM) and you want to tap into the lessons learned and findings that are contained in this book, you're sure to find more than one topic that you can apply or incorporate into your methodology.	2004-03-16
744131:US	53037408	R3VEV40IXS4S8R	0750657510	282291433	E-business Implementation: (Computer Weekly Professional)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Clearly explained management overview	This book is best suited for IT managers whose jobs have removed them from the details of technology, and project managers who have high level technical backgrounds, but are given e-business projects to manager.  As such, don't expect to find in-depth details or revelations that would primarily interest the technical specialists who design and implement e-business solutions.  If you are among the primary audience, however, this book will get you quickly up-to-speed on the key issues of every facet of the technologies and the challenges of integrating and implementing them to achieve an e-business solution.<br />There are fifteen areas covered, the first two are contained in Part One and cover how to structure and resource an e-business project.  While these two areas are somewhat general, they do address specific issues and challenges, which will prepare project managers for some of the realities of an e-business implementation project. In Section Two the project is broken into phases. These phases do not align to project milestones, but to technology areas covering major building blocks found in most e-business solutions. They follow a standard format that cover the key technologies used, and high level details about them.  These areas range from publishing systems to web services. Section Three covers supporting technologies using the same format.  Here the lower-level infrastructure components are covered, including development approaches, hardware platforms and operating systems, security, networking and open source.<br />After reading this book the quasi- or non-technical manager or PM will understand the key issues and underlying technologies, and will be versed sufficiently in the technology to pose the right questions to their technical staff involved in the actual design, development and implementation.	2004-03-16
744536:US	53037408	RJEQT9KU9U5EW	0849319765	131649239	Software Configuration Management	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Best book on SCM (and CM) I own	If I could use only one of the stack of SCM books I own to guide me through an implementation and serve as reference this book would be it.  The reasons for this bold statement are:<br />- it's comprehensive in coverage, starting with an in-depth introduction that clearly explains software configuration management as a discipline and process area, its benefits, and an overview of implementation issues, to details on every aspect of performing and managing software configuration.<br />- it addresses SCM from both software engineering and project management perspectives.<br />- it's based on established standards (MIL-STD-973 and EIA-649).<br />To readers who are working in agile environments that employ rapid development and implementation approaches the MIL-STD-973 and EIA-649 standards upon which this book is based may raise a red flag.  To assuage concerns about introducing what many may perceive to be heavy, bureaucratic standards to processes designed for fast paced implementation, SCM is one area that requires checkpoints and a methodical process to ensure quality.  As you read this book you'll find that neither MIL-STD-973 or EIA-649 are inherently cumbersome, especially if tailored to your specific project or development environment.<br />Highlights of this book, aside from the detailed treatment of every facet of SCM, are the copious use of tables and graphics to summarize or clarify key concepts and how processes work, and the wealth of artifacts contained in the appendices.  The appendices alone are worth the price of this book because they provide templates, guidelines and checklists, and forms that you can immediately use.  Note, though, that many of these artifacts are also provided in other books from the publisher, and some such as the DoD Engineering Change Proposal may not be applicable to your objectives (although they will be useful if tailored).<br />As you read this book you'll discover that general configuration management principles are also introduced, expanding the usefulness to integrators as well as software engineers.  What I especially like is how the book never loses sight of the relationship between SCM and quality, the way metrics are identified and presented, and the interrelationship between configuration management and maintenance.<br />I personally believe that this book is the best there is for implementing and employing a strong SCM process, which is critical to any software or integration project.introduced, expanding the usefulness to integrators as well as software engineers.  What I especially like is how the book never loses sight of the relationship between SCM and quality, the way metrics are identified and presented, and the interrelationship between configuration management and maintenance.<br />I personally believe that this book is the best there is for implementing and employing a strong SCM process, which is critical to any software or integration project.	2004-03-16
744589:US	53037408	R3VD52S17R0KTH	0471072982	291787177	Securing E-Business Systems: A Guide for Managers and Executives	Books	5	0	0	N	N	High-level with strategic, proactive goals	Because this book is ostensibly aimed at managers and executives do not expect technical details or a discussion at the tactical, day-to-day level. Instead, this book will give busy managers who are removed from hands on security tasks and details of the underlying technologies the knowledge they need to be conversant with those aspects, and a framework for developing a proactive security posture. In fact, this book's strengths are the strategic perspective and proactive approach that are imparted. This is important because in many organizations the security professionals in the trenches tend to take a tactical approach and are forced into reacting to constantly emerging threats, software vulnerabilities, and other challenges that do not allow them the luxury of protecting the business *and* developing strategies and shifting to the proactive.<br /><br />The author clearly puts e-business system (and general) security into context from business and technical perspectives in Chapter 1. In Chapter 2 he exposes topics that may be far removed from executive and senior management, such as infrastructure and related support issues. Also in this chapter security is introduced into the discussion of infrastructure and systems, setting the stage for subsequent chapters.<br /><br />Chapters 3 and beyond are focused entirely on security. Each element of e-business security is treated as an individual topic, which provides the necessary background for the next topic. In succession major and common threats are discussed, along with recommended countermeasures. By Chapter 4 the details for effective security management unfold, with well written material on why e-business systems are corporate assets, and a sound framework for managing these systems in a manner that takes into account business imperatives and cost/benefit. Subsequent chapters also cover topics such as responsibility and liability - in short, topics that concern managers.<br /><br />At nearly 300 pages this book may be too detailed for executives, but is short enough to hold the attention of senior and mid level managers who are responsible for e-business systems. The approach and focus are business first, with only enough information about the underlying technology to provide sufficient understanding to non-technical readers. The approach set forth in the book for managing security is both realistic and viable. What is required to make it actionable is executive sponsorship and management commitment to perform.y be too detailed for executives, but is short enough to hold the attention of senior and mid level managers who are responsible for e-business systems. The approach and focus are business first, with only enough information about the underlying technology to provide sufficient understanding to non-technical readers. The approach set forth in the book for managing security is both realistic and viable. What is required to make it actionable is executive sponsorship and management commitment to perform.	2004-03-16
744665:US	53037408	R2FYVFVGBZIEU4	0849314798	732733163	Software Engineering Handbook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Section Two is reason to buy this book	This book is divided into two sections, the first covering basis software engineering topics ranging from discovery and inception tasks, such as performing a cost benefit analysis and requirements management, to managing software maintenance.  This section covers the basics, but has no material that would distinguish it from other books on software engineering. The second section, however, is a rich compendium of methods, frameworks and techniques with an emphasis on metrics.  This section alone makes this book an invaluable resource for any software engineer.<br />In Section Two the coverage of mainstream topics such as COCOMO II,  McCabe's Cyclomatic Complexity Metric, and Putnam's work is complete and expected. However, this book also includes not frequently seen descriptions of topics and approaches, such as Bellcore's Software Quality Metrics, Hewlett Packard's TQC (Total Quality Control) Guidelines for Software Engineering Productivity, and Sprague's Technique for Software Configuration Management in a Measurement-Based Software Engineering Program.  These are but a sampling of the material in this section that provides a virtual encyclopedia of techniques and methods.<br />The appendices are also valuable resources, providing example artifacts ranging from a system service request form to a function point counting guide.  Ironically, function points were not covered in any detail as a standalone topic in the main body of the book.  Also included in the appendices are forms and templates.<br />Overall this is one of the most useful books for the practicing software engineer. The range of topics covered is wide, and there are sure to be techniques that you'll discover for the first time in this book regardless of your experience level.	2004-03-16
744739:US	53037408	R100KRDD388BFL	0750626569	690749770	Information Technology Management: A Practical Guide (Computer Weekly Professional Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Major facelift to earlier book - worth looking at	This book is largely based on the authors' 1992 work titled, &quot;Information Management: Organization, Management and Control of Computer Processing&quot; (ISBN 0135537770).  It rectifies some of the weaknesses of that book; i.e., out-of-date information, and retains the parts that are relevant to modern systems and organizations.  In addition, the material has been updated to address issues and trends that were not widely employed when the original book was published.  Here are the areas that are either new or updated from the original book:<br />- Chapters on Buy or Build Software Systems, Reuse, and Acquiring Computing Resources reflect new material and are well written.  These chapters are relevant to modern environments.<br />- Outsourcing and reengineering are covered in the newer book, and the content remains substantially valid.  A more contemporary book would probably address off-shore outsourcing, and place less emphasis on reengineering, or replace that topic with process improvement.<br />- A chapter on project management has been added, reflecting the growing importance of that skill set to IT professionals (although it always has been an important skill since the early days when IT was called DP).<br />- Data and Knowledge Representation is a new chapter and provides insights that are invaluable to IT professionals who are focused on the data part of the equation.<br />Like its predecessor, this book is somewhat out of date, but contains information and techniques that are difficult to find elsewhere, or are glossed over. And, like the previous book, I recommend it as a secondary source of information, and of information that is still valid, but disappearing from the body of knowledge for IT operations.	2004-03-16
744745:US	53037408	R2SPSURUPEZ3R2	0471491918	828459574	From Business Strategy to IT Action: Right Decisions for a Better Bottom Line	Books	5	29	29	N	N	One of the best books on the subject!	I've read a stack of books related to this subject, and this is one of two books that I think hit the bullseye and that I recommend to peers and clients (the other is Value-Driven IT Management, ISBN 0750659254).<br />What I most like about this book is the highly focused, clearly defined approach to transforming strategy into action. In fact, 'action' is the main characteristic of this book, both in writing pace and in the results you can achieve if you follow the map the authors provide.  Chapter 1 leads you through defining your goals that links the strategy to your bottom line.  This establishes the methodology that you'll follow through the rest of the book.<br />Each subsequent chapter is a milestone in the process of transforming strategy into action.  What I like is the consistent format, which starts with &quot;Ask the Right Questions&quot;, then listing steps, ending with a summary.  More importantly, the bottom line remains the focus of this book from start to finish. This keeps the reader's attention on the goals, business issues and costs.<br />The topics covered in each step represent best practices that should be present in any organization that is mature enough to undertake a business-IT alignment.  For example, portfolio management, prioritization techniques, and aligning to a value chain are addressed,  In addition, the challenges faced by both business and IT are uncovered, with advice on how to meet them during the process.  Finally, the book sets forth the transformation process in a well ordered sequence that will get you from inception to meeting all objectives if followed.  The chapters on scoring and measurement are invaluable.<br />One topic that makes this book exceptionally valuable is the introduction of the Business Value Maturity Model. This model, in my opinion, is the missing link in the quest for Business-IT alignment initiatives, and one that I hope gets wider dissemination than in this book.  Other aspects of the book that I especially like include the excellent use of graphs and diagrams, and the absence of empty claims and theory.  The material is clear, actionable and realistic.  Think of this book as both a compass and blueprint. I cannot recommend this book strongly enough, particularly to organizations that are struggling with business-IT alignment.especially like include the excellent use of graphs and diagrams, and the absence of empty claims and theory.  The material is clear, actionable and realistic.   Think of this book as both a compass and blueprint. I cannot recommend this book strongly enough, particularly to organizations that are struggling with business-IT alignment.	2004-03-16
750416:US	53037408	R313W2X34UFZ1A	0873895940	637372511	Iso 9001:2000 Achieving Compliance and Continuous Improvement in Software Development Companies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Much needed book for Development and Service orgs	This is a much needed book for ISVs and other organizations involved in software development because ISO 9001:2000 lays the foundation for larger scale quality initiatives, such as attaining CMM levels 2 and above. More importantly, it not only dispells any misconceptions about ISO 9001 by providing up-to-date information about the 2000 version versus the gaps in earlier versions.<br /><br />What I like most about this book is the way the author systematically leads you through the basics, including the history, goals and benefits of ISO 9001 registration, and shows how this standard has been greatly improved in the 2000 version. Chapter 2, in particular, imparts the key differences of this version, and thoroughly discusses the relevance of the 90003 recommendations in the document set to software development.<br /><br />Chapter 3 is where this book segues from background to practical application, starting with an implementation strategy. This chapter outlines an implementation approach and lays the groundwork for the subsequent chapters that cover each of the major clauses in the quality management system. As in the first two chapters the author clearly shows how ISO 9001 aligns to the unique and specific needs of a software development organization. He provides all of the information necessary to understand what is needed to conform to each clause, and presents the information in a manner that makes sense. One especially nice feature of this book is the liberal use of tables and charts, which summarize information and make sorting out the critical elements easy.<br /><br />Among the strongest chapters are Chapters 7 (Product Realization Requirements) and 8 (Measurement, Analysis and Improvement Requirements). The reason I found these so useful is the material can also be applied to ITIL service level management requirements, or as a standalone framework for IT-to-business alignment. This expands the scope of this book beyond software development. In addition, any IT service provider-not just ISVs and other development organizations-can apply this book's approach to achieving ISO 9001 compliance.<br /><br />Chapter 9 is especially valuable to organizations that are pursuing ISO 9001 registration because it takes a due diligence approach to identifying potential registrars, then steps you through the registration process. If you are not pursuing registration, but are using this book to implement portions of ISO 9001 as the foundation of a quality initiative, the material in this chapter on auditing is still useful. Another key feature of this book is the appendices and the artifacts provided on the accompanying CD ROM. The appendices include a quality manual outline, forms and templates, and audit questions.<br /><br />Although this book is aimed at software development organizations interested in, or pursuing, ISO 9001 registration, it also provides invaluable material for any IT organization (internal or service provider). If you are working with or implementing ITIL this book will also prove to be an invaluable resource.IT service provider-not just ISVs and other development organizations-can apply this book's approach to achieving ISO 9001 compliance.<br /><br />Chapter 9 is especially valuable to organizations that are pursuing ISO 9001 registration because it takes a due diligence approach to identifying potential registrars, then steps you through the registration process. If you are not pursuing registration, but are using this book to implement portions of ISO 9001 as the foundation of a quality initiative, the material in this chapter on auditing is still useful. Another key feature of this book is the appendices and the artifacts provided on the accompanying CD ROM. The appendices include a quality manual outline, forms and templates, and audit questions.<br /><br />Although this book is aimed at software development organizations interested in, or pursuing, ISO 9001 registration, it also provides invaluable material for any IT organization (internal or service provider). If you are working with or implementing ITIL this book will also prove to be an invaluable resource.	2004-03-11
750575:US	53037408	R328XO6BP96LOK	073571410X	418246819	Defensive Design for the Web: How to improve error messages, help, forms, and other crisis points	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Don't  design (or update) your web site without this book	This book is one of the best books on web site design I've read - and I've read quite a few.  New and experienced web masters will find a plethora of tips and techniques covering every facet from how to display error messages that are both meaningful and don't get lost on the page, to ensuring that search engines on your site actually return relevant information to search queries.<br />The topics covered are covered intelligently and in detail, and address the most common weaknesses found on too many web sites. Moreover, every topic is reinforced with examples from actual and well-known web sites. Specific areas of web site design include:<br />- Show the Problem (crafting visible and informative error messages)<br />- Language Matters (excellent tips on writing content that is descriptive, short and gets attention)<br />- Bulletproof Forms (take the confusion out of filling in forms and validate data)<br />- Missing in Action (go beyond 404 messages, and how to enhance the visitor experience even if they are using older browsers or are missing needed plug-ins)<br />- Lend a Helping Hand (creating help that is ... well, helpful)<br />- Get Out of the Way (how to find and eliminate stuff that slows down page loading, detracts from the main content, or alienate visitors)<br />- Search and Rescue (tips for making your site search engine give visitors relevant information instead of dumping everything under the sun in response to a query)<br />- Out of Stocks and Unavailable Items (best practices in stock management if you are selling items on the site)<br />- Contingency Design (a strategy for continuous improvement)<br />What I most like about this book is the fact that it isn't based on some rigid design philosophy, but instead, is a compendium of design issues commonly found on major sites - and how to make sure your site doesn't have them.  Most of the items covered are the very ones that are likely to irritate you when you encounter them on someone else's site. The elegant solutions  given in this book can serve as a checklist of what to consider when you're designing or improving your own site. If I had to recommend only one book on site design to new web masters this would be it.ns  given in this book can serve as a checklist of what to consider when you're designing or improving your own site. If I had to recommend only one book on site design to new web masters this would be it.	2004-03-11
755765:US	53037408	R34B6RPU8U1IES	0974080802	48614195	The Help Desk Audit: Blueprint for Success	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Essential resource for help desk managers (and consultants)	If you manage help desk or service desk operations this book is an essential tool for achieving the best possible level of efficiency and customer satisfaction.  I recommend also getting the companion CD titled, &quot;The Help Desk Audit Toolkit&quot; (ISBN 0974080810), which contains the forms and other artifacts used in this book.<br />The author approaches help desk process improvement through an audit process that examines key process areas (or lack thereof), and leads you through the audit to determine at which level of maturity your current operation is at - and what is required to get you to the optimum level based on your budget and organization.<br />The audit process itself is a straightforward five-step process that consists of:<br />1 - Assess<br />2 - Compare<br />3 - Plan<br />4 - Implement<br />5 - Assess (adjust is a better way of looking at this step)<br />The areas covered are thorough and address all of the key aspects of help desk operations. These areas are divided into blocks and specific areas, which are:<br />BLOCK 1 - Foundation. Mission/Vision, Structure and Products and Services Provided.<br />BLOCK 2 - People. Staff, Performance Metrics, Training and Staff Development.<br />BLOCK 3 - Process.  Call Handling, Problem Management and Problem Escalation.<br />BLOCK 4 - Tools. Tools &amp; Technologies, and E-Support and Knowledge Management Enhancements.<br />BLOCK 5 - Customer Management.  Service Level Management, Customer Satisfaction Measurement, and Customer Communication Process.<br />The cycle in each block's specific area is to gather information, determine where on the maturity scale you are (immature, emergent, mature or advanced), and devise an improvement strategy.  The aggregate of results from each block is used to determine your overall maturity rating.<br />If you are implementing ITIL, trying to improve your help desk operational efficiency, or just want to benchmark your operation against best practices, this book is the primary resource to which you should turn.  Also, BLOCK 5 is applicable to call centers of companies that are implementing ISO 9001:2000 because of that standard's emphasis on measuring customer satisfaction.  Finally, if ITIL is important, the key areas and approach align nicely to service desk operational areas.hich you should turn.  Also, BLOCK 5 is applicable to call centers of companies that are implementing ISO 9001:2000 because of that standard's emphasis on measuring customer satisfaction.  Finally, if ITIL is important, the key areas and approach align nicely to service desk operational areas.	2004-03-07
756264:US	53037408	R2VXSZ248ZSD2D	1558609180	510762956	How to Build a Business Rules Engine: Extending Application Functionality through Metadata Engineering (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	42	49	N	N	Practical aspects of business rules	Although this book's title may lead you to believe it is solely about developing a business rules engine, it is much more.  First, to answer the question that developers may want to know about the book - yes, there is code and it can be downloaded from the web site that supports the book.  However, in my opinion, the real reason to buy this book is to gain a deeper understanding of the practical aspects of incorporating business rules into applications.  Where books such as &quot;Principles of the Business Rule Approach&quot; (ISBN 0201788934) cover the subject well from the conceptual and systems analyst perspectives, this is the only book to approach business rules from a tools and integration perspective.<br />Topics range from data modeling to working with batch processes, and every relevant consideration in between.  You'll find that the author heavily favors the use of reference data, which is no coincidence because he wrote, in my opinion, the definitive book on that topic as well - &quot;Managing Reference Data in Enterprise Databases&quot; (ISBN 1558606971).  More importantly, though, is how thoroughly this book covers all issues associated with developing and implementing a business rules engine, especially with respect to enterprise data architectures and associated databases.<br />If you have mastered the concepts of business rules and are ready to implement them this book is the place to start.	2004-03-07
756322:US	53037408	R253DEG9002F7Z	0321194330	104160690	How to Break Software Security	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent continuation or Whittaker's earlier book	James Whittaker has taken the approach and the tools he introduced in [[ASIN:0201796198 How to Break Software: A Practical Guide to Testing W/CD]], and has teamed with coauthor Herbert Thompson to adapt them to security testing. In this book the software under test (or attack, since that is the underlying approach) is primarily in the Microsoft environment. That the principles can be applied to any operating system or environment is evident in one scenario where Linux-based OpenOffice is attacked. The the fault model provided early in the book can form the basis for any software test strategy with a goal to uncover and exploit vulnerabilities.<br /><br />The approach itself is to create a plan, then systematically attack. The areas of vulnerability covered include unanticipated input scenarios (which, even after decades, is still an exposure in too many applications and operating systems), find and attack design flaws and implementation anomalies, and leave no potential vulnerability untested. Among these are the usual exposed ports and default names; however, there are exploits based on data, time stamping and other less common areas that are overlooked by testing professionals - and that is one of the main audiences of this book.<br /><br />While the techniques and the approach in this book are sound, I would have liked the attacks presented as formal test cases, which would be more meaningful to the testing professionals who will benefit the most from this book. However, the authors do introduce the concept of security testing as an element of QA, adding to the small (but hopefully growing) body of knowledge to be used by QA. I recommend this book, as well as [[ASIN:0201786958 Exploiting Software: How to Break Code]] as two books that should be read and used by software testing practitioners. The information combined in these books will-if put into practice-significantly improve the quality and security of software that is released into production.	2004-03-07
756404:US	53037408	R2DK5PT64C36BV	0974080810	652227734	The Help Desk Audit Toolkit: Companion CD	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Time-saver and augments &quot;The Help Desk Audit&quot; book	If you've purchased &quot;The Help Desk Audit: Blueprint for Success&quot; (0974080802), or you're an experienced help desk consultant seeking a ready-made set of tools this collection of documents is invaluable.<br />First, if you have purchased the book you'll save literally dozens of hours because you will not need to recreate the forms and other tools on this CD ROM.  If will cut the time to perform the audit, and will enable you to manage your findings in a systematic manner.<br />If you are a consultant who already has an assessment methodology, the forms and documents are still useful and their function should be immediately apparent.  More importantly, you'll save many hours by tailoring them to your specific practices instead of designing them from scratch.  As a side note, regardless of the methodology or approach you currently employ I strongly recommend you consider the book from which this CD ROM's contents are derived - it is one of the most thorough approaches I've seen.<br />Regardless of your objectives, if you work with help desks this CD ROM provides invaluable documents that you can either immediately use, or quickly tailor to meet specific or unique requirements.	2004-03-07
756920:US	53037408	R10IHD00LUL1Z4	0201788934	642993428	Principles of the Business Rule Approach	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A primary resource from one of the industry experts	This book is probably the most important of the handful of business rules literature available.  Not only is the author is one of the true experts in the field who is a prolific writer of articles on the topic as well as co-developer of related tools, but the book is the most comprehensive work on the nuts and bolts of employing business rules.<br />The book is divided into five parts, starting with background, definitions and cases in Part I. Concepts and the mechanics of business rules covered in Part II cover the basics in considerable detail, which are built upon in Part III, Best Practices for Expressing Rules.  This part is the meat of the book.  It starts with a list of dos and don'ts for rule capture and documentation, then introduces &quot;BRS Rulespeak&quot;, which is a set of formal rules and approach for identifying, classifying, and expressing business rules.  Part IV is a somewhat loose collection of advice for IT professionals (bearing in mind that business rules span both the IT and business domains), and to a minor degree delves into data models, knowledge management and how business rules directly link to business imperatives and processes.  Part V digs deeply into formal logic and facts, and is an important part of this book for the practitioner.  I especially liked the appendices to this part because they went even deeper into formal methods.<br />Although I rate this book the highest among the three I own on the subject, if you are only exploring business rules the best place to start before reading this book is Tony Morgan's &quot;Business Rules and Information Systems: Aligning IT with Business Goals&quot;(ISBN 0201743914).  Also, Barbara Von Halle's &quot;Business Rules Applied: Building Better Systems Using the Business Rules Approach&quot; (ISBN 0471412937) is a worthwhile resource to be used in conjunction with this book because goes deeper into the practical aspects of implementing business rules as an enterprise initiative.	2004-03-06
757547:US	53037408	R2GZQ3XSJ59PQR	1574442988	340966691	Virtual Project Management: Software Solutions for Today and the Future	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ahead of its time - especially relevant today	When this book was first published nearly four years ago from the date of this review, it addressed a narrow niche - managing virtual teams in large-scale engineering projects.  Moreover, the book is more biased towards product management than project management, although there is considerable overlap in the two domains. Fast forward to today, and the material no longer addresses a narrow niche, making this book an important resource to a much wider audience.  I am evaluating this book from the perspective of an IT professional, and see the audience as follows:<br />- project and program managers overseeing development that has been outsourced to off-shore providers, especially in the IT environment<br />- IT professionals who have (or are in danger of) losing their jobs because of the trend towards off shore outsourcing.  Managing virtual teams is a viable, alternative career option in which this audience segment can employ their technical knowledge and gain the management knowledge to be successful.<br />- executive management exploring the feasibility, risks and challenges of outsourcing to off shore providers and who are seeking a management strategy for making it work<br />Of course, the audience is wider than I've cited, and the best way to determine if you are among it I'm giving my assessment of the knowledge and approach the book imparts.  First, the author weaves in cases, personal experience and anecdotal stories into the text making the book highly readable. He approaches the way to establish and effectively manage a virtual team by focusing on the key barriers and offering solutions.<br />The biggest barriers are communication and cultural differences (both company and human varieties), so much of the book is devoted to overcoming those in all of their forms.  I particularly liked the knowledge dissemination and retention strategies the author provides because knowledge management is directly linked to communication, but is an often overlooked element that will make or break a geographically and culturally dispersed team's success. The core of this book, however, is the structured and methodical eight-step framework in which you can establish a virtual team.  This framework has the following steps:<br />1 - Careful selection of team leaders with an emphasis on leadership and conflict resolution skills.<br />2 - A clearly defined architecture upon which work splitting and tasking are based.<br />3 - Develop a build plan and ensure that the proper supporting infrastructure is in place.<br />4 - Establish and enforce communication rules.<br />5 - Identify and implement the low level project organization.<br />6 - Detailed planning that takes into account all elements of the virtual team.<br />7 - Test the organizational concept.<br />8 - Execute.<br />For each of the above steps the author provides in-depth details, challenges and how to overcome them, and supporting rationale.  In addition, the appendices in this book are invaluable in that they contain templates, checklists, and other information that fleshes out what is required to effectively manage a virtual team.  Appendix L, &quot;Synopsis of 34 Insights and 50 Solutions&quot;, is especially valuable because it summarizes the key challenges of virtual team management.will make or break a geographically and culturally dispersed team's success. The core of this book, however, is the structured and methodical eight-step framework in which you can establish a virtual team.  This framework has the following steps:<br />1 - Careful selection of team leaders with an emphasis on leadership and conflict resolution skills.<BR>2 - A clearly defined architecture upon which work splitting and tasking are based.<BR>3 - Develop a build plan and ensure that the proper supporting infrastructure is in place.<BR>4 - Establish and enforce communication rules.<BR>5 - Identify and implement the low level project organization.<BR>6 - Detailed planning that takes into account all elements of the virtual team.<BR>7 - Test the organizational concept.<BR>8 - Execute.<br />For each of the above steps the author provides in-depth details, challenges and how to overcome them, and supporting rationale.  In addition, the appendices in this book are invaluable in that they contain templates, checklists, and other information that fleshes out what is required to effectively manage a virtual team.  Appendix L, &quot;Synopsis of 34 Insights and 50 Solutions&quot;, is especially valuable because it summarizes the key challenges of virtual team management.	2004-03-06
758248:US	53037408	R1LRJTDNZZ2WCI	0201786958	567630326	Exploiting Software: How to Break Code	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential reading for developers and QA pros	Many readers and reviewers view this book as a security text, which it is. However, the main value in my opinion is to the software testing/QA community and to developers working in environments using either agile methods or Extreme Programming.<br /><br />For the software testing and QA community the book is a ready-made manual for developing test cases, and also raises interesting thoughts about testing tools. For example, Chapter 8 (Rootkits) gives a list of techniques and tools that can be effectively used as testing tools as well as hacking tools. What better way to test software than to use the very methods and tools that the bad guys use?<br /><br />Developers will find a plethora of common exposures and vulnerabilities that will need to be addressed in the software they develop. Moreover, much of the information in this book will provide guidance about what should be checked during unit and integration testing. As an aside, I also recommend that developers in any development environment read \\"Building Secure Software\\" (ISBN 020172152X), which nicely augments this book.<br /><br />Of course, the security community's concerns are also address, especially in the first three chapters. In fact, if this book proves anything it's that security, development and QA need to work in concert in order to have a defensive, in-depth security posture.<br /><br />If you are a developer or testing professional I highly recommend this book, and also recommend that you augment the information provided with two other books - \\"How to Break Software: A Practical Guide to Testing\\" (ISBN 0201796198), and \\"How to Break Software Security\\" (ISBN 0321194330).	2004-03-05
758757:US	53037408	R1IS9FSARRGQWA	0471081124	481657448	Lessons Learned in Software Testing: A Context-Driven Approach	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Effective as individual resource or training tool	This is a book of combined wisdom and advice ranging from automated testing to how to think like a tester.  What makes it unique is the way the wisdom is imparted and advice given by exhaustively dissecting key pitfalls in all of the key areas of testing, then reinforcing them with lessons and examples.<br />As an individual tester seeking to improve professional knowledge you'll benefit from the combined wisdom, as well as the scope of the book's areas.  The three authors have extensive experience in the profession - in fact, each is a leader in the profession - and each brings a different perspective to the practice of software testing.  This guarantees that you will be exposed to a diverse set of challenges and ideas.<br />If you teach testing, either in a class or set aside time for internal training within your testing group, this book is invaluable.  In the classroom setting it will augment your primary text and material by providing discussion items and mini-cases with which to challenge your students.  In the job setting it provides sufficient material from which to draw for conducting informal on-the-job training.  More importantly, many of the lessons are bound to coincide with issues you and your group face in day-to-day work, which will allow you to reinforce lessons learned in your organization with the findings and advice contained within this book.<br />Regardless of whether you are using this book to further your own professional knowledge or use as a training tool, it represents a valuable addition to the software testing body of knowledge and belongs on the bookshelf of everyone in he testing profession.	2004-03-05
760068:US	53037408	RGKSSJLT0OFGM	0750659254	619806625	Value-Driven IT Management (Computer Weekly Professional)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Workable approach to IT value delivery &amp; packed with info	Some background is required before proceeding with a detailed review of this book.  First, this book addresses a topic that occupies IT managers and corporate executives - how to demonstrate the value it IT to the business.  Second, there are numerous approaches used in most large enterprises (and more than a few medium ones).  They all seem to begin with the goal of aligning IT to business operations and show value, but too many end up either using a chargeback scheme of some sort, or IT finds itself outsourced. Third, there are viable approaches that look good on paper.  An example is the bullet-proof approach set forth in &quot;Effective Measurement and Management of It Costs and Benefits&quot; (ISBN 0750624329), which--if followed--would solve many of the problems of making IT a value-driven organization.  From personal experience, though, I've found that the leadership and commitment needed to implement what that book outlines is lacking in too many IT organizations.<br />This book takes a less ambitious approach than &quot;Effective Measurement and Management of It Costs and Benefits&quot;; however, it is an approach that is within the capabilities of competent IT executives who have reasonable leadership skills.  At the heart of the approach is how to turn IT into an organization that has proven value to the business it supports. This is where the book gets interesting and the author's knowledge and experience is imparted.  He thoroughly dissects typical approaches, such as making IT a profit center (and reasons why this will not work), and various common funding schemes (transfer charging using either market pricing or cost recovery), and how they affect both actual and perceived value.<br />The in-depth discussions of the charging schemes, their strengths and weaknesses related to the goal of managing IT as a value-providing organization were an education in themselves.  I also like how this book stays focused on the theme and does not get sidetracked with discussions on operational or process improvement models, which are mentioned only in the context of the book's objectives.<br />What makes this book so valuable is the straightforward approach and how the author leads you to it.  It is both workable and realistic, which is a refreshing change from many books about IT-business alignment and IT value.  Regardless of whether you are seeking a workable solution of transforming IT into a service that has measurable value, or are a consultant who specializes in IT organizational and operational optimization, this book will provide you with knowledge and an actionable approach.  Do note that this book addresses value from organizational and operational perspectives. If you are more interested in delivering value from software project or product management I recommend you read &quot;Software by Numbers: Low-Risk, High-Return Development&quot; (ISBN 0131407287), which focuses on the much narrower application delivery domain.h discussions on operational or process improvement models, which are mentioned only in the context of the book's objectives.<br />What makes this book so valuable is the straightforward approach and how the author leads you to it.  It is both workable and realistic, which is a refreshing change from many books about IT-business alignment and IT value.  Regardless of whether you are seeking a workable solution of transforming IT into a service that has measurable value, or are a consultant who specializes in IT organizational and operational optimization, this book will provide you with knowledge and an actionable approach.  Do note that this book addresses value from organizational and operational perspectives. If you are more interested in delivering value from software project or product management I recommend you read &quot;Software by Numbers: Low-Risk, High-Return Development&quot; (ISBN 0131407287), which focuses on the much narrower application delivery domain.	2004-03-04
761686:US	53037408	RCIWE0T5R01GD	0131407287	63068537	Software by Numbers: Low-Risk, High-Return Development	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A breath of fresh air	This book draws from a number of existing, proven practices and combines them into a synergistic approach in which the whole exceeds the sum of the parts. The focus of this book is iterative development, so if you are in an environment that employs the waterfall development life cycle the some of the material will not be as useful.  As a side note - the waterfall SDLC is anything but dead, unfortunately. First, the parts - there are two main ideas set forth in the book:<br />(1) Viewing software as a collection of minimum marketable features (MMFs), which requires a radical shift in thinking. This is especially true because most of us have been trained to approach software from a function points or source lines of code (or from the viewpoint of the constructive cost model).  The MMF view is ideal for determining the value of software to an organization as a business proposition, whereas FPs, SLOCs and other methods are for estimating development effort.  Adding MMF means you have a new dimension to consider when making the go/no-go decision to proceed with a development project, making it an ideal factor during discovery and inception, and for governance purposes.<br />(2) Incrementally funding development--called &quot;Incremental Funding Method&quot; or &quot;IFM&quot; for short--which is similar to the progress payments concept in earned value project management.  In essence IFM ties funding to delivery, which is ideally suited to iterative development. There are safeguards incorporated into this approach, such as a requirement for accurate cost forecasts, which have obvious dependencies on schedule and resources.  However, since IFM is tied to net present value, this is where true value to be achieved from the software viewed as MMFs is determined.  Since iterative development a fluid approach and accurate forecasts cannot be made beyond a single iteration the authors have devised an innovative solution to the problem by using sequence-adjusted net present value, which ties NPV to MMF and adjusts them through each iteration.<br />The whole - this book treats software development as value creation, and provides a workable solution to establishing and managing the value of software to business throughout the development life cycle. If the book ended here it would only be theory.  What the authors did to make this book essential reading and to add credibility to their approach is provide two case studies--one for the RUP development approach and one for those in the agile camp--as well as a wealth of other information in the later chapters that show how to effectively deal with intangibles and decision making.  What is remarkable is this is done in less than 200 pages. This book is an important work and should be read by IT executive management, project managers and software engineering managers., which ties NPV to MMF and adjusts them through each iteration.  <br />The whole - this book treats software development as value creation, and provides a workable solution to establishing and managing the value of software to business throughout the development life cycle. If the book ended here it would only be theory.  What the authors did to make this book essential reading and to add credibility to their approach is provide two case studies--one for the RUP development approach and one for those in the agile camp--as well as a wealth of other information in the later chapters that show how to effectively deal with intangibles and decision making.  What is remarkable is this is done in less than 200 pages. This book is an important work and should be read by IT executive management, project managers and software engineering managers.	2004-03-03
764329:US	53037408	R3HR0JVYP4GT81	0071360271	625986554	The Request for Proposal Handbook: A Sourcebook of Guidelines , Best Practices, Examples, Laws, Regulations, and Checklists from Jurisdictions Throughout the United States and Canada	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Focus is public sector - strong on policies &amp; compliance	This book is more suited for following readers:<br />- RFP writers who have some experience and want to gain more knowledge into the process.<br />- Small-to-medium businesses that have grown to the point where formal RFP process and procedures are warranted.<br />- Those who are working in the public sector and wish to incorporate best practices that are unique to that sector.<br />The author provides a sound process while thoroughly covering terms and conditions, policies and procedures, and compliance considerations. He leads you through the entire RFP life cycle that assures due diligence and obtaining best value for your organization.  The book is filled with tips and checklists that will make the development and implementation of a repeatable RFP process easier than starting from scratch. The included reference materials are drawn from state governments, which will be invaluable to anyone working in public sector contracting at the state level.<br />If you are completely new to writing RFPs, or work in the private sector, I recommend Request for Proposal: A Guide to Effective RFP Development (ASIN 0201775751); however, this book will still be an invaluable resource after you learn the basics. If you are in the target audience I cited above this book will be of immediate value.	2004-03-01
764778:US	53037408	R3J1DXLMVW345Z	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Innovative thinking backed up with a coherent approach	This book does two things - (1) it describes how to achieve and sustain competitive advantage by examining your current business model and refactoring it to take advantage of emergent opportunities or changing business climates, and (2) it teaches you how to think out of the box.<br />Thinking out of the box is a prerequisite for refactoring your business model, and unlike the plethora of books on this seemingly ineffable topic, this book will provide you with the knowledge and skills to do just that.  Excellent example of thinking out of the box are immediately given in the introduction - each mini study set in text boxes is anchored to one of more factors in business model innovation, and illustrate how thinking out of the box by individuals led to radically new ways of viewing their business, and the successes that came from acting on these insights.  Everyone will find at least one inspiring case study in this book that elicits an Eureka!  Mine was the GoldCorp case.<br />However, case studies--no matter how inspiring--are nothing more than interesting reading without knowing the common critical success factors in detail.  This is where the book shines, because these details are exposed, analyzed and the reasons why they are important are given in a compelling way.  Part One, which addresses value, cost and price is by far the most influential 114 pages I have read in any book.  Most of the techniques can be found in any college-level text book, but the manner in which it's presented, and especially the chapter on eliminating costs that reduce customer and end user benefits, will inspire you to think broadly and deeply about these issues. Part Two covers how to provide sustained benefits to all stakeholders.  In theory this seems easy, but too many organizations acknowledge the benefits without acting. The authors show you how to transform the theory into action and results.  They also tackle the messages in Parts Three (Expand Business Model Innovation) and Four (Pursue Higher-Potential Business Model Improvement) with the same painstaking detail as in the first two parts.<br />This book has clear, lively writing that will hold your interest from the first page. In fact, it is so well written that you may easily overlook the experience, knowledge and skill that is woven into this excellent book through carefully chosen case studies, key questions that cause you to think, and copious use of text boxes to highlight key points or impart quick pieces of essential information. In that respect not only is this book a valuable addition to any executive's reading list, but it's a masterpiece. It deserves a place alongside the works of Michael Porter, Kaplan &amp; Norton, and Drucker.r (Pursue Higher-Potential Business Model Improvement) with the same painstaking detail as in the first two parts.<br />This book has clear, lively writing that will hold your interest from the first page. In fact, it is so well written that you may easily overlook the experience, knowledge and skill that is woven into this excellent book through carefully chosen case studies, key questions that cause you to think, and copious use of text boxes to highlight key points or impart quick pieces of essential information. In that respect not only is this book a valuable addition to any executive's reading list, but it's a masterpiece. It deserves a place alongside the works of Michael Porter, Kaplan &amp; Norton, and Drucker.	2004-03-01
765211:US	53037408	R1A7TBXHSZYMPY	0471599859	478890924	Enterprise Architecture Planning: Developing a Blueprint for Data, Applications, and Technology	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Excellent resource - but use with caution	I purchased this book with it was first published and it greatly influenced my thinking and has continued to do so to this day.  There is a large caveat I want to share before continuing - be careful of the Zachman Framework because if you do base your enterprise architecture on it you will soon discover that making changes is a tedious process that ripples across the matrix.  That said, I continue to believe in the basic concepts and components of the framework, and I also think that it is an excellent way to gain a view of an enterprise when you are attempting to model it.<br />Caveat aside, the techniques and many of the elements of the framework provided in this book are invaluable to creating any enterprise framework or initiating and managing a process improvement program.  While Chapter 1 describes enterprise architecture planning in the context of the Zachman Framework, all of the subsequent chapters can be applied to any framework, which what makes this book as valuable today as it was a decade ago.  Specifically, Chapter 3 (Planning), 5 (Enterprise Survey), 8 (Application Architecture), and 10 (Implementation Plan) are among the best of the best practices for approaching any project that is enterprise-wide in scope.  For that reason I continue to keep my worn copy of this book nearby as a reference.<br />Despite my views on the Zachman Framework and some of its limitations and challenges, you may not have a choice - if you are on a team that is refactoring your enterprise in accordance with the Zachman Framework I recommend that you visit the Zachman Institute (see ASIN B00016NEXI) and augment the decade old material in this book with the up-to-date content available on that site.<br />If you are still in the exploratory stage and are considering this book because you want to learn more about either the Zachman Framework or EAP I recommend that you not only purchase this book (for the reasons cited above), but that you also read &quot;How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Framework: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework&quot; (ASIN 141201607X).Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Framework: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework&quot; (ASIN 141201607X).	2004-02-29
765255:US	53037408	R2YSYOA2I54H8V	0958237204	779246811	Crazy Colour PRINCE2 Process Map	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent PRINCE2 learning resource	This is a beautifully done process map that fully depicts the process areas in PRINCE2 (Projects in a Controlled Environment), version 2, which is the UK project management standard.  Regardless of whether you are a PRINCE2 practitioner, or work with the US project management standard defined by the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge, this chart is a valuable resource.<br />Of course, if you use PRINCE2, especially if you are studying the Foundation or Practitioner examinations, this color card shows you all of the major elements of PRINCE2 at a glance.  If you are a project manager who holds the PMI's PMP certification, you will still find this chart useful because of the way PRINCE2 organizes projects.  The organization is not mutually exclusive with what the PMBOK sets forth, and closes some of the gaps left open by PMBOK (especially in the way stakeholders are included into the project management process).<br />In addition to the somewhat playful and whimsical use of colors, the color names are actually mnemonics to help you remember the stage names (i.e., managing project delivery coded as &quot;Marmalade Pot&quot; for MP; controlling stage coded as &quot;Chocolate Sauce&quot; for CS), this color card also has full terms and definitions. As a learning aid this is hard to beat. As a visual map to a set of proven processes there are ideas waiting for those who are new to PRINCE2, but who have project management experience.<br />For additional details, and a wealth of PRINCE2 information visit the publisher's site (see ASIN B0000A4P1M) and click on &quot; PRINCE2 Study &amp; Reference Resource&quot;.	2004-02-29
765260:US	53037408	R31E3I0JO3184A	0201794292	351145266	Effective Software Testing: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your Testing	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent advice with a wider audience than QA	Think of this book as a 300 page checklist that uncovers gaps in the testing process, some glaring and some more subtle.  From that perspective you are not getting yet another book on how to test software, but insights into the author's extensive experience and knowledge.  Therein lies the value of this book, and why it is applicable to not only software QA professionals at all experience levels, but to project managements, application support professionals, and developers.<br />The book is divided into chapters that address a specific phase in the testing process, starting with requirements through to text execution.  I won't dwell on the content that will be of particular interest to QA practitioners because the entire book applies. Instead, I'll cite the information that other stakeholders in application delivery will find useful because I believe this book has a much wider audience than just QA:<br />- Chapter I (Requirements) should be read by project managers and the requirements team.  It underscores the importance of integrating the QA team at the earliest stage of a project.<br />- Chapter IV (System Architecture) shows the importance of communications between the architects and design team and the QA team.  Specifically, if QA isn't working closely with architecture, designs may not be testable, which will impose significant costs downstream in the applications delivery process.<br />- Chapter VI (Unit Testing) gives advice on how to effectively engage the development team in the overall quality strategy.<br />- Chapter X (Managing Test Execution) has excellent advice on managing defects, which has a plethora of stakeholders and roles, from support, business and development domains.  In addition, the guidance on bounding the test execution cycle is not of primary interest to project managers, but also to business stakeholders.  It's a sad commentary on the way some organizations manage the test environment when advice for separating the test and development environments need to be included, but this commingling happens too often and I was happy to see it included in this chapter.<br />This is not a 'how to test' book, it is a compilation of pitfalls and how to avoid them.  It is a welcome addition to the growing software quality body of knowledge and one that I recommend highly.t environments need to be included, but this commingling happens too often and I was happy to see it included in this chapter.<br />This is not a 'how to test' book, it is a compilation of pitfalls and how to avoid them.  It is a welcome addition to the growing software quality body of knowledge and one that I recommend highly.	2004-02-29
765939:US	53037408	R1U2JJ03BGUL5L	0201775751	540202524	Request for Proposal: A Guide to Effective RFP Development	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Resource and guidelines with a coherent approach	There are literally hundreds of good books on proposal writing, but only a tiny handful on writing RFPs. From among the handful this book stands out for a number of reasons:<br />(1) It clearly described the RFP process from start to finish - and RFP development is a process with a defined life cycle.<br />(2) The author goes well beyond the immediate objective of writing an RFP and managing the process by including thought-provoking material on post-award vendor management.  This material sometimes escapes the RFP development team who is more focused on getting to the award milestone without thinking about the post-award ramifications.<br />(3) It's not boring - the writing is lively, and the material is presented at a fast pace.  The pace, however, does not leave gaps.  Every facet of the RFP process is covered in sufficient detail.<br />In addition to the above, the approach set forth in this book is consistent with best practices in RFP development.  I especially like the copious checklists, the RFP roadmap, and the way illustrations are skillfully used to reinforce concepts and advice.<br />Note that the focus of this book is information technology and software acquisition. Some of the material is unique to those domains; however, the basic principles and RFP process can be used for virtually any type of RFP, from office services to purchasing furniture.<br />Overall, this is the one book I recommend for RFP development. If you are an IT professional, regardless of role, the chances are you will be involved in this process at some point in your career, making this book a valuable addition to your library.  If you have recently been assigned to an RFP team you should get this book as soon as possible, and use it as your compass and blueprint if your organization does not already have a formal RFP process in place.	2004-02-29
767814:US	53037408	R32U4ED9NN5F5F	0967826365	401578003	Web Design HTML Foldouts (Tags, Style Sheets Reference Guide)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A simple-but-handy tools for web developers	Even if you are proficient in HTML coding and can whip out a page in Notepad in a single leap there is always some arcane tag, especially if you are using stylesheets, that will send you to a reference book or web site. This handy foldout takes up almost no space and provides a ready reference to virtually any tag you need, including full syntax and examples.<br />The font size is 9 points, which is larger than some reference cards, but still tiny. However, the amount of information crammed on these foldouts is amazing, and made all the more useful by clever use of color coding to ensure you are developing pages that are as compliant as possible with W3C standards - or at least know which browsers will or will not be able to display certain tags. Using color codes and boxes you'll know at a glance if your page will support any of the following: Netscape 4?6, Internet Explorer 4?6, W3.org standards, HTML 4.01, XHTML 1.0, CSS2. Since Opera, another popular browser, can spoof sites into thinking it's Internet Explorer its exclusion from the compatibility codes is not a critical oversight.<br />If you do web page development I highly recommend this card, and also recommend visiting the publisher's web site (ASIN B00006CP7C), which contains a wealth of information on usability, colors and topics of interest to all developers from beginner to professional.	2004-02-27
779662:US	53037408	RRJDC6SNCTFJN	0595280544	941601148	SUCCESS WITH ONLINE RETAILING: FOR SMALL BUSINESSES	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Practical, realistic and valuable	This book takes a no nonsense, straightforward, practical approach to developing and managing an online retail business. Given the plethora of books about this subject that are little more than gushing testaments to achieving success, with more fluff than meat, it's refreshing to find one that is sober and factual.<br /><br />The author sets the tone in the beginning of the book by citing a few short, compelling success stories, then leading you through steps designed to determine if you are ready to sell online, the realities of an online business and how to approach creating a successful business model. He then leads you through all of the critical success factors, ranging from positioning your business to sourcing to credit risk management. These important topics are treated in surprising depth considering that the entire book is less than 225 pages. More importantly, statistics, tables and supporting information are provided to reinforce concepts and back up statements made.<br /><br />Chapters 10 through 15 cover the actual development and marketing of your web site. This material is presented in the same factual, straightforward fashion that characterizes the first nine chapters and is filled with excellent advice and information.<br /><br />In Chapter 17, E-Business Management, the author provides realistic advice about what it takes to effectively manage your online retail business. This advice is based on his extensive experience as an operator and consultant, and is on the mark. The final chapter wraps up with advanced tips on multi channel strategies, profit assurance and operations.<br /><br />If you read one book on online retailing I recommend that it is this one. The writing is crisp, the information is practical, and the approach is viable.	2004-02-18
779849:US	53037408	RBYJXLEPCYB9S	0764548042	218409435	JavaScript? Weekend Crash Course	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Lives up to its title	Although I am fairly proficient with Javascript, I purchased this book because it used an online shopping cart as the basis of the lessons and I wanted the code to jumpstart a project.  I did take the time to read the book on a coast-to-coast plane trip, so I got more out of it than just free code.<br />The author claims that no programming experience is needed to complete the weekend crash course.  I disagree with this claim because there is much more to programming, even in a scripting language, than knowing syntax.  However, anyone who has even rudimentary programming skills will be able to quickly learn basic Javascript development using this book because the course has been well thought out and leads you through practical exercises that will, indeed, give you the knowledge and skills to write Javascript in a weekend.<br />Key strengths of this book include:<br /> - succinct and focused lessons that build upon one another to culminate in genuine proficiency if you follow the lessons and work the exercises.<br /> - does not stray beyond the basics or introduce superfluous, nice-to-know material that will sidetrack you<br /> - uses a non-trivial application as the basis of the lessons (writing an online shopping cart will exercise every major Javascript feature)<br />If you've never written a program you may still get through this book, but it will take diligence and personal commitment. It will also take more than a weekend in my opinion.  However, if you have been exposed to programming in any language (but preferably the C programming language), you can become proficient in Javascript in a single weekend if you follow the lesson plan and work the exercises.  In view of that this book is a worthwhile investment, especially if you are in a hurry or need to quickly get up to speed in Javascript.	2004-02-18
780813:US	53037408	R1THK2JVM23J1N	0738413313	309195053	Ldap Implementation Cookbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Practical information for designers and implementors	Although somewhat out of date, this is an excellent companion book to Understanding LDAP (ISBN 0738400149) because it takes the underlying theory given in that book and adds practical examples for implementing LDAP.<br />All of the examples given are based on IBM systems and frameworks; however, they translate into any LDAP-based system.  The book starts by introducing LDAP, summarizing the basics, then covers schemas and namespaces in depth.  This foundation is followed by practical implementation, provided in Chapter 3, &quot;A Step-by-Step Approach for Directory Implementation&quot;.  This is the heart of the book and addresses every implementation aspect from defining objectives to defining deployment and performance criteria.  The coverage has no gaps, and if followed, is a blueprint for a successful implementation.<br />Chapters 4 through 7 cover directory management, implementation security and administration in great detail.  The final chapter is devoted to developing directory enabled applications using the Java naming and directory interface (JNDI).  The remainder of the book is comprised of appendices, the most valuable of which is on standards.<br />The material in this book is accurate, reflects real challenges, and is augmented by code samples and many illustrations.  Despite the fact that it's slightly outdated it is an invaluable roadmap to implementing LDAP and is highly recommended as a resource to anyone tasked with designing or implementing directory-enabled services or applications.	2004-02-18
781828:US	53037408	R2TMV6ZX430G3S	0201756064	41807931	Successful IT Project Delivery: Learning the Lessons of Project Failure	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Filled with insights and excellent advice	Seasoned IT project managers will gain many insights from this book. Don't expect to find mechanical techniques such as how to develop a WBS or use earned value to control a project - those are not within the scope of this book.  What is within scope is advice backed by cases and examples for keeping a project on track and within budget.  While the techniques covering the mechanics of project management are missing, the techniques covering strategies and tactics for ensuring project success are in abundance.<br />What makes this book invaluable to seasoned IT project managers is the focus on organization, meeting stakeholder needs, and overcoming barriers - especially political barriers.  In addition, the author approaches project delivery in a structured, methodical manner that places the role of an IT project manager and the task of project delivery into a clear context. Most books on project management either gloss over these important areas, focusing instead on PM techniques, or avoid them altogether.<br />Key features I especially like are:<br /> - Section I (Preparing the Organization for IT Projects), which illustrates common problems associated with IT project management (and there are many) with actual cases.  In addition, Chapter 2 is one of the best summaries of aligning IT to business during project inception and maintaining that focus throughout the life cycle of the project.  The material in the subsequent chapters in this section go into additional detail in key areas.<br /> - Section II (Planning for Success) is rich with advice and supporting real life examples for developing a viable business case, managing risks, avoiding common pitfalls and engaging stakeholders.<br /> - Section III (Design and Development) contains material that is not unique to this book. Most of the material is included in most of the better books on software project management, although the case studies are interesting. I would have liked more focus in interaction between the project team and the operational support team, such as assuring reliability and supportability are handled in this phase.  Also, addressing the big picture of how the design and development fits into infrastructure and service level management would have distinguished this section.<br />Section IV (Project Delivery) is somewhat weak because it stops with testing and does not address making the transition from project to production in the depth. This is a critical milestone in any IT project and deserves more than the cursory treatment it was given.<br />Although I think there are gaps in Section IV, this book is still one I highly recommend because it does address topics that most other IT project management books do not.  More importantly, it is filled with excellent information and advice that can be put to immediate use, and will change your thinking about how to properly approach and manage an IT project.project team and the operational support team, such as assuring reliability and supportability are handled in this phase.  Also, addressing the big picture of how the design and development fits into infrastructure and service level management would have distinguished this section.<br />Section IV (Project Delivery) is somewhat weak because it stops with testing and does not address making the transition from project to production in the depth. This is a critical milestone in any IT project and deserves more than the cursory treatment it was given.<br />Although I think there are gaps in Section IV, this book is still one I highly recommend because it does address topics that most other IT project management books do not.  More importantly, it is filled with excellent information and advice that can be put to immediate use, and will change your thinking about how to properly approach and manage an IT project.	2004-02-17
795793:US	53037408	R2DG7UVURFLPKD	0972983163	35006093	Impacting Business: A Simple Model of IT Management	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simple, but not simplistic - essential for all IT pros	I was privileged to first read this book when it was in manuscript form.  My take on it then was that it provided a collection of proven tools and techniques, and a structured and straightforward approach to applying them.  In its final form I stand by my original assessment.<br />In less than 200 pages the author sets forth all of the key ingredients for successfully managing information technology.  He starts by laying the foundation with well-written sections on the economics and psychology of IT management.  These two sections clearly explain to managers and those who aspire to management how to think in business terms when approaching problems or starting initiatives, and how to bridge the wide IT-business chasm by examining IT's technology focus and what is important to business, then marrying the two together.<br />The meat of this book is in Section Three, which introduces the IT management model - topics covered include business processes, tools, the relationship between processes and tools, instrumentation, management data and information, and action resolution. I especially liked the table on page 94 that summarizes the mapping between major industry models and the simple model proposed by the author.  This table compares and contrasts the simple model to the ISO network management model's five management areas (FCAPS), the TMN model and the ITIL. I like this because the major industry models require a significant investment in resources to implement, and by starting with the author's simple model a foundation is established with less effort and resources, then when it is running steady state the more sophisticated models can be implemented in a structured fashion.<br />Each of the subsequent sections augment the simple model by delving into details of understanding problems (framing them correctly within the context of a process), understanding change (which includes all of the key elements of an effective change management process), issues and special cases, and how to select management tools.<br />Overall this book covers the basics in a balanced manner that keeps technology and business issues and requirements in balanced perspective.  Regardless of whether you are a software engineer, IT manager, network or systems engineer, or a consultant, this book will give you a solid foundation of knowledge, and a recipe for success that are sorely needed in our industry.ases, and how to select management tools.  <br />Overall this book covers the basics in a balanced manner that keeps technology and business issues and requirements in balanced perspective.  Regardless of whether you are a software engineer, IT manager, network or systems engineer, or a consultant, this book will give you a solid foundation of knowledge, and a recipe for success that are sorely needed in our industry.	2004-02-06
806701:US	53037408	R26XH5T959SF5V	0130906735	639990317	Performance by Design: Computer Capacity Planning By Example	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Outstanding introductory book to a complex topic	This team of authors has produced yet another invaluable book for practitioners who perform capacity and performance planning, as well as students who are introduced to this topic for the first time.  Unlike earlier works by the authors, which addressed performance in specific systems environments such as client/server, e-business and web services, this book is more general. Therein lies the true value - it teaches the fundamentals and will not be soon outdated.<br />The book is structured into two parts - Part I consists of four chapters that lay the foundation. Chapter 1 covers system life cycles, Chapter 2 moves the reader from systems to descriptive models of the systems, and Chapters 3 and 4 delve into the essence of performance - quantifying performance models and giving a performance engineering methodology.  This material is reinforced with five chapters, each of which is a case study of a specific performance problem.  These include  database services, web servers, data center, e-business services and help-desk services.<br />Part II, The Theory of Performance Engineering, addresses the underlying knowledge that performance and capacity planners will need in order to approach their tasks using true quantitative methods.  The six chapters in this part of the book cover the following topics in detail, and are clearly and succinctly written:  Markov models, single queue systems, single class MVA (Mean Value Analysis), queuing models with multiple classes, queuing models with load dependent devices, and non product-form queuing models. Armed with a knowledge of these fundamentals you should be able to tackle complex performance and capacity problems, both in the software engineering domain when a system is being designed, and in the operational support domain when service level management and availability are the goals.  In addition to the way the authors step you through complex math in a clear, easy-to-understand manner, this material is augmented by Microsoft Excel workbooks that bring the material to life.  Nearly every chapter has associated workbooks and spreadsheets that can be downloaded from the web site that supports this book, adding considerably to the value of the material.<br />If you are new to performance planning as a discipline this should be the first book you read on the subject.  If you teach performance planning, this is an ideal text around which you can base a curriculum that will prepare your students for real world challenges.t Excel workbooks that bring the material to life.  Nearly every chapter has associated workbooks and spreadsheets that can be downloaded from the web site that supports this book, adding considerably to the value of the material.<br />If you are new to performance planning as a discipline this should be the first book you read on the subject.  If you teach performance planning, this is an ideal text around which you can base a curriculum that will prepare your students for real world challenges.	2004-01-29
1312352:US	53037408	R2MLSVNF86S2MD	0160055822	674128242	Fault Tree Handbook	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Adds depth to FMEA and FMECA	This guidebook is based on a 1981 report sponsored by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  The report, which this book comprises, is both a case for the use of fault trees as a &quot;safe&quot; reliability analysis methodology, and a step-by-step guide for conducting fault tree analysis.<br />Contents consist of 12 sections (I-XII) a follows: (I) Basic Concepts of Systems Analysis, (II) Overview of Inductive Methods (including Failure Modes Effects [and Criticality] Analysis, Preliminary Hazard Analysis and Fault Hazard Analysis), (III - V) Fault Tree Analysis, including the basics and construction fundamentals), (VI) Probability Theory, (VII) Boolean Algebra (as it relates to fault tree analysis), (VIII &amp; IX) Examples of fault tree analysis problems and solutions, (X) Probabilistic and Statistical Analysis, (XI)Fault Tree Evaluation Techniques and (XII) Fault Tree Computer Codes.<br />With the exception of XII, which are obsolete programs, this book is one of the most comprehensive treatments of fault and reliability analysis I've read.  If you are involved in FMEA or FMECA the material in this book will provide a solid foundation, as well as introduce formal methods that are missing from most books that address either or both of those techniques.  More importantly, this book coherently ties together the underlying mathematics and techniques, ranging from simple probability and statistical distribution models, to Boolean Algebra and set theory.<br />Although this book is slanted towards nuclear safety, the material is applicable to reliability analysis of software and hardware systems, and can also be effectively applied to business process analysis.  In spite of its age, this book (with the exception of Section XII) is applicable to contemporary reliability analysis problems and should be a primary reference for anyone who is involved in reliability analysis, design or quality assurance.	2002-12-08
1324468:US	53037408	R8FYU6MWHZX6Y	1557531633	959676693	Plan to Win: A Definitive Guide to Business Processes (Ichor Business Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Focused on the essentials	This excellent book wastes no time getting to the essential elements of business process design and implementation. Where other books on the topic often start with a high-level view of a grand scheme and then get bogged down in irrelevant detail and tangential issues, this one clearly outlines what needs to be done and how to get there with no fluff.<br /><br />What makes this book so special is that the author never loses sight of business imperatives - after a quick overview of integrated business processes, which is the high level view, he goes directly into business planning. There he dissects the key elements of a business plan, which adds both a focus to business processes and ensures that the key processes described in the rest of the book have a foundation to which each process is linked.<br /><br />The key processes are - customer development, product introduction, supply-chain and industrial distribution management, customer satisfaction and quality, project management and finance management. These are the minimums for a coherent set of interlinked business processes that are required for a process-oriented organization. Moreover, the processes set forth are completely aligned to Michael Porter's value chain, which has proven itself in the decades since it was first presented in \\"Competitive Advantage: Creating and Sustaining Superior Performance\\" (ISBN 0684841460).<br /><br />In addition to the focus on the essentials, and the distillation of what it does take to win as a process-oriented organization, this book also is clearly written and makes excellent use of illustrations to reinforce key concepts. Be aware that this book is slanted towards product-based enterprises, but the principles can also be effectively applied to service-based organizations.	2002-11-28
1324781:US	53037408	RRAI4QBSMYZZC	0595225748	732117344	A Beginner's Guide To Understanding Technical Support	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A lot of in info in a pamphlet	On my first pass through this book I concluded that it was filled with inaccurate information and was not a book that I'd recommend. However, after thinking about it and rereading it I came to the firm conclusion that this is one of the most valuable resources available to the new technical support professional.<br /><br />Why the 180 degree change in opinion? There are two major reasons - (1) it covers the essentials, such as tiered support, escalation and service level management, and (2) it gives excellent advice about setting user expectations. In fact, it ties these two key elements together in a coherent manner.<br /><br />What I did not like (at first) was some of the definitions, such as support tiers, that the author provided. I realized that unless one is well versed in the ITIL (IT Infrastructure Library) and iSMF (International Service Management Forum) approaches (both of which are collaborative and completely aligned to one another), definitions are not as relevant as the principles - and the principles are the most difficult to grasp. To that end this book shines because it is an easy read and demystifies some of the more complex principles of technical support, and does so with clear writing.<br /><br />If you are new to technical support I recommend that you read this book first before tackling some of the more detailed books on the subject, such as \\"IT Problem Management\\" by Gary S. Walker and Harris Kern (ISBN 013030770X) or \\"IT Service Management: An Introduction\\" Jan Van Bon (ISBN 9080671347), both of which will build upon the foundation laid in this book.	2002-11-28
1329544:US	53037408	R38A2Q18288Q2B	0735711518	196461720	Hot Text: Web Writing that Works	Books	5	55	55	N	N	More than how to write online text!	There are only a few books about writing that I consider classics, and despite the relative newness of this one, it qualifies.<br />First, the advice on writing online text is on the mark, especially with respect to organizing your message and presenting it with impact. Much of the advice can also be effectively used in paper-based documents.  I particularly liked the way the authors presented punctuation because in paper-based text a mark such as a colon is easy to spot, whereas on a monitor it's lost.  I've since begun using a dash instead of a colon when developing online content and that small piece of advice works where a colon does not. Of course there are literally hundreds of other tips and advice that will combine to make your content readable and understandable.<br />Second, the way the authors show you how to organize your thoughts, distill them into a coherent and succinct message, and how to present that message is a strategy that anyone who develops online content needs to carefully read and heed.<br />Finally, this book covers much more than how to write - it also gives excellent advice on a full range of related topics, including search engine placement using meta tags, humanizing the technical nature of web pages (such as making URLs easy to read and remember for non-technical users), and how to structure your content to find items of interest.  The latter extensively uses principles from Information Mapping. One disappointment was the omission of any mention of Robert Horn, the inventor of Information Mapping, from the extensive list of cited references and recommended reading because the authors' approach is closely aligned to much of Horn's work.<br />If you're developing online content you cannot afford to pass this book up.  Mine is a constant deskside companion and is likely to remain so for years to come.	2002-11-23
1330201:US	53037408	R3ACPCDR85CYX7	0201674874	123185726	XSL Companion, The	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Title perfectly describes this book	For the XML developer this book is a perfect companion. It makes no real pretense to teach XSL, and if you're looking for such a book this is not it. What it does is provide developers of basic-to-advanced skill levels with tips, advice and clear explanations for using XSL in accordance with the XSLT standard, including XSLT, XPath and XSL.<br /><br />What makes this book valuable as a reference and 'cookbook' is the examples, stylistic approaches that are based on sound software engineering practices, and excellent use of illustrations to reinforce complex concepts, such as subexpressions, path directions and lexical elements of the XSLT family.<br /><br />Another point in the book's favor is the thorough coverage of all aspects of XSLT, from obvious solutions and advice, to highlighting subtle nuances and 'gotchas' that developers will encounter. The author does an effective job of transferring his knowledge in the form of the book to readers, and is the main reason why this book is an important companion to developers at all skill levels. Given the growing use of XML and related protocols - especially the XSLT sub family - this book is an important addition to the body of knowledge and is one professional tool that you should have on your desk or at least within reach.	2002-11-23
1360063:US	53037408	R1LF3MK8XTA22D	0471372978	869722211	Avoiding Cyber Fraud in Small Businesses: What Auditors and Owners Need to Know	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Preventative measures + Fraud Basics	This book is not as much about detecting fraud as it is about developing company-wide awareness and implementing detection measures.  These are the keys to not only fraud prevention, but also security in general.  My perspective is as an IT security professional, and I found this book to be thorough in that it covers all key items, and also to be applicable to any size business.<br />What I especially like about this book is its wide coverage that touches on each of the most important elements of awareness and prevention, including an objective assessment of cyber fraud as a threat, an approach to analyzing risks and vulnerabilities, and how to implement controls and policies.  In addition to these basics, the book also goes into the technical aspects of security (written so that a non-IT professional can understand the fundamentals), and related topics, such as information protection, and legal issues associated with web site content.  While the latter are not specific fraud vulnerabilities, they represent business risks that are loosely related to fraud.<br />Other material that I found useful and informative included the chapters on internal protection controls and conducting audits and investigations.<br />This book is a valuable resource for any IT security professional as well as corporate security, auditing and internal controls, and general business professionals (especially marketing).  If you are new to fraud I also highly recommend \\"Fraud 101: Techniques and Strategies for Detection\\" by Howard R. Davia (ISBN 0471373095) which provides a solid foundation for understanding fraud management from a wider perspective, and \\"The Computer and Internet Fraud Manual\\" by Joseph T. Wells (ISBN 1889277363), which goes deeper into detection and response techniques.	2002-10-28
1360198:US	53037408	R18MYIWW41EVWU	0262011891	991434343	Workflow Management: Models, Methods, and Systems (Cooperative Information Systems)	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Workflow design with a twist	This book has significantly changed my thinking about and approach to workflow management.  Prior to reading it I based workflow systems on process chains based on frameworks such as entry-task-validation-exit (ETVX) or plan-do-check-act (PDCA).  While process chains are a valid approach, the only level of formality I imposed was cost and value analysis, which I realized after reading this book was not the entire picture of a workflow.<br />What I learned is how to view workflow as a logical network using Perti Nets, which are both graphical and based on a formal language using Boolean logic (AND and OR joins and splits), programmatic views (iteration) and analytical logic (causality).  More importantly, this approach has resolved a misalignment between the design of workflow systems with which I previously used procedures and events and the development approach used by my company's software engineers who were using object-oriented methods.  Petri Nets are based on states instead of events, which more naturally aligns object-oriented development of workflow systems to the underlying design.  Discovering this is what so significantly changed my thinking and approach to workflow.<br />Although this book is heavily slanted towards Perti Nets, it also contains a wealth of material about workflow from business process and operations perspectives, and does not obviate process chain approaches.  Instead, it provides you with a good grounding in the basics of workflow in general, and provides you with tools, techniques and an approach to developing workflows in a formal manner.  If you are involved in process design, workflow development or business process engineering/reengineering this book is an invaluable, thought-provoking resource.	2002-10-28
1360739:US	53037408	R3PK3Q1VP1182N	1574442465	201009825	The Measurement Nightmare: How the Theory of Constraints Can Resolve Conflicting Strategies, Policies, and Measures (St. Lucie Press/Apics Series on Constraints Management,)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Seamless blend of traditional (GAAP) and TOC	This remarkable book manages to cover a wide array of topics (TOC, metrics, accounting and GAAP compliance and implementation and strategy issues)in approximately 200 pages and still impart a deep message.  The message is not subtle - don't be a lemming just because 'you've always done it this way'.  Actually, the message is much deeper and also encompasses how to measure the right things.<br />What I like most is the fact that the author can write clearly and hold your attention while at the same time providing you with enough information to cause you to rethink the way you're currently doing business - and giving you a clear path to doing it better.  The book starts out with eye-opening stories from the author's past experience of companies what were measuring the wrong things based on myopia.  She then introduces TOC, discusses how traditional accounting metrics and indicators can be aligned to TOC, and goes deeper into TOC with a direct emphasis on how it relates to accounting methods. From there the book goes into TOC metrics and how to align them to GAAP financial statements.  This short book wraps up with excellent implementation advice that is based on a strategic approach.<br />Overall, this book is easy to read, but is rich with information beyond what one would expect is such a short book. The author backs up her proposed approach with real life experience and compelling facts that are logically presented and based on hard numbers, and is an obvious expert in both accounting and TOC.	2002-10-28
1360848:US	53037408	RITBBWFQD0UJY	1889277363	616049559	The Computer and Internet Fraud Manual	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Covers fundamentals and professional standards	This short (171-page) book is published by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners and provides an approach to identifying and preventing computer fraud that is consistent with that organization's body of knowledge and practices.<br />Part I, \\"Understanding and Identifying Computer Fraud\\" consists of none chapters that begin with a discussion of the legal issues and factors associated with computer fraud, technical fundamentals that include common threats (intrusions, viruses, fraud schemes and hacking), and specific topics about internet and e-commerce fraud.<br />Part II covers detecting and preventing computer fraud, with excellent material on how to properly handle evidence and work with law enforcement professionals during the response phase.  This section also contains a brief treatment of applications and systems security, and detailed chapters on security auditing and implementing policies.<br />While this book is not especially comprehensive, it does cover the major topics that need to be taken into consideration if you're involved in corporate fraud management, but are not familiar with the technical basics of computer and internet fraud.  It is also an excellent resource for the IT security professional who may be knowledgable of IT security practices, but not well versed in fraud detection and prevention.	2002-10-28
1361689:US	53037408	RR31FOYGEPA2U	1587130173	211688383	High Availability Network Fundamentals	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Important addition to any network library	Like any book on availability this one addresses a number of interrelated topics - service level management, capacity and performance management, and specific techniques for achieving high availability.<br />I like this book because it introduces proven engineering techniques in the first five chapters,  beginning with a discussion of availability and building upon this foundation with necessary math, a discussion of network topologies, factors that affect availability, and end-to-end availability management.  This part of the book will not only provide valuable information to network professionals at all levels of experience and knowledge, but is also applicable to IT operations managers and infrastructure support professionals who are involved in service level management.<br />The remaining chapters are realistic case studies that are based on Cisco products that give excellent insights into attaining and managing availability in various environments - a small ISP, a large enterprise and an enterprise VoIP network.<br />In addition to a wealth of information, this book comes with a CD ROM that contains a generic hardware availability and reliability calculator (in Microsoft Excel format - I was able to use it with an older version of Excel 97, which is a nice touch), and a terse PDF of instructions.  It also contains worked examples of this spreadsheet for various Cisco products, the most valuable of which in my opinion are the Cisco 12000 processing engine and system level calculation spreadsheets that accompany Chapter 9 &quot;A Large VoIP Network: An Availability Analysis&quot;.<br />This book is essential reading, and is nicely augmented by &quot;High Availability Networking with Cisco&quot; by Vincent C. Jones (ISBN 0201704552) because that book takes the fundamentals and expands them into complex scenarios.  If you're new to networking get this book before getting Jones' book, but if you're experienced, get both.	2002-10-27
1364087:US	53037408	R13GJTW7SPDULP	1861004818	768047653	Professional Java E-Commerce	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Disappointing	There are a few good sections in this book (mainly the chapters that deal with WebLogic and the appendices of primers and reference material that comprise Section 6).  However, considering that this book weighs in at over 1000 pages, its mainly fluff or glib (but not helpful), with too much material that states the obvious.<br />Much of the fluff is found in Section 1 (The E-Commerce Landscape), and Section 2 (Architecting Java-Based E-Commerce Systems) was, in my opinion, a glossed over, high-level overview that was used as filler.<br />Sections 3 (B2C E-Commerce Solutions) and 4 (B2B E-Commerce Solutions) have a few interesting chapters in each.  My main complaint here is that Section 3 is a mix of solutions and techniques, while Section 4 is purely solution-focused.  Section 5 (M-Commerce) is too light to be useful, and most of the material is already woefully out of date.<br />My recommendation is to pass this book up and, instead, seek out single-topic books that address the subjects in which you're interested.	2002-10-25
1369917:US	53037408	R2FZI9GZ966BBW	0971960909	158980435	Reducing Process Variation: Using the DOTSTAR Problem-Solving Strategy.	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Simply astonishing in scope and depth	As a long time proponent practitioner of statistical process controls (SPC) and process improvement I was astonished by what I didn't know after reading this set.  The most significant revelation, and why this book is an essential resource for anyone involved with quality or process improvement, is the DOT*STAR process that drills down into causes.<br />DOT*STAR stands for Define [the problem], Observe [the process], Think [of possible causes], Select [the most probable cause], Test [to validate your assumptions], Act, Review and Revise. The approach is straightforward in concept, but in practice it employs an array of tools and techniques, all of which are common in quality improvement (statistical techniques such as histograms and Pareto charts, paired-comparisons, hypothesis testing and project management tools for implementation).<br />I like the way the book presents a coherent approach to applying familiar [to practitioners] tools and techniques to identify and eliminate root causes of process variation. Therein lies the true value of this material - it shows you how to leverage your existing quality and process improvement knowledge and skills to their fullest potential, and along the way gain a deeper understanding of SPC, process capability, and how to perform effective investigation and analysis to bring about process improvement.<br />If you're involved in quality, process improvement or 6-Sigma this book is essential reading because it provides insights that and an approach that works in practice.	2002-10-20
1370720:US	53037408	RKT7J3RWIGPBV	0201737922	485615416	IT Service Management Guide: Vol. 1	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Essential for SLM Practitioners	This book is divided into ten sections, and is one of the most complete collections of IT service management papers to be found in a single book.  It includes papers from Gartner and Meta Group (among other industry analysis firms), descriptions of vendor approaches (Hewlett-Packard's Service Management Reference Model, Microsoft's Operations Framework), and the internationally recognized standard - ITIL - that is at the core of the International Service Management Forum's vendor-independent approach to service management.<br />Organization of the book is as follows:  I. Models for managing information systems, II. Sourcing and procurement, III. Metrics, IV. Maturity, V. Processes, VI. Organizational aspects, VII. Practical guidance, VIII. E-management, IX. Tools and instruments, and X. IT management glossary.  In other words, this book covers every facet of service management.<br />Among what I like most about this book (and there is much more than these highlights, but I want to share my favorites):  the complete list of models from section I, which gives you ample information to compare and contrast approaches, Section III's metrics articles, especially the paper on applying Goals-Questions-Metrics to service management (a good way to clarify service level objectives), Section IV's discussion of Test Process Improvement (TPI)as it relates to service management, and all of Section V, which is devoted to processes.<br />Another aspect of this book is I was able to read a large body of word that was only previously available in Dutch (like a good deal of some of the more interesting software testing approaches such as TPI, much of the service management literature is published only in Dutch - this book allowed me to tap into information that I knew existed that was written in a language that I cannot read).<br />If you are serious about IT service management this book is one of the best investments you can make.  I also strongly recommend the editor's (Jan Van Bon) introductory book titled &quot;IT Service Management: An Introduction&quot; ISBN 9080671347.  In addition, if you are interested in Section IX (Tools and Instruments), I recommend that you consider &quot;SLM Solutions: A Buyer's Guide&quot; by Rick Sturm, Lisa Erickson-Harris and David St. Onge (ISBN 097208360X), which is among the most thoroughly researched books on tools and vendors.introductory book titled &quot;IT Service Management: An Introduction&quot; ISBN 9080671347.  In addition, if you are interested in Section IX (Tools and Instruments), I recommend that you consider &quot;SLM Solutions: A Buyer's Guide&quot; by Rick Sturm, Lisa Erickson-Harris and David St. Onge (ISBN 097208360X), which is among the most thoroughly researched books on tools and vendors.	2002-10-19
1373443:US	53037408	RQBVBK6AHQ1PT	0876268300	718935132	Systems Programmer's Problem Solver (Winthrop computer systems series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Still Relevant	Spotting this book on a shelf in my temporary cubicle while waiting for code to be uploaded for testing was pure serendipity - I picked it up to kill time and discovered a gem that is as relevant today as it was when first written in 1989. True, it needs to be modernized, especially since it was written by a mainframer for mainframers, and the slant towards MVS needs to be aligned to contemporary systems.<br />However, here are some of the reasons why I feel this book still has value:<br />- The principles haven't changed.  While the first chapter on debugging is aimed at mainframe systems programmers, consider some of the topics - \\"What did you change recently?\\", \\"Corrective Redesign\\", and \\"Timing Problems\\".  These, and the other eighteen items covered are most certainly relevant today regardless of the programming language(s) or environments. Other chapters that are well grounded in principles include (3) Prevention, (4) Coding Practices, (6) Testing and (7) Management.<br />- It's an easy read.  Each chapter addresses topics in short one-to-two page essays.  I especially like the wry humor which reminds me of Geoffrey James' \\"The Tao of Programming\\" (ISBN 0931137071), and the fact that each topic is covered in sufficient depth to make you think, but doesn't go into superfluous or unnecessary detail.<br />- Gerald Weinberg's forward to this book could have been written yesterday instead of in 1989!<br />Of course, if you are one of the shrinking group of MVS (and VM) systems programmers this book will be much more meaningful, but I think that any programmer will benefit from this book.  I would love to see it updated and republished in a 3rd edition.	2002-10-17
1374093:US	53037408	R3KG64KYGAF4LI	1931490120	794260692	Administrator's Guide to TCP/IP	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thorough and clearly written Book &amp; CD	This excellent book/CD ROM combination is for both experienced and novice network professionals, including support techs, network management professionals and network designers and architects.<br />For the hand's on reader, the three bonus chapters on the CD ROM, which cover Cabling and Physical Connectivity, Troubleshooting, and Performance Monitoring and Optimization add value.<br />However, what I like is the way the book starts with a crash course in TCP/IP, then clearly explains subnetting, routing, design considerations and configuration and management. In particular, the section on subnetting is among the clearest and easiest-to-understand explanations I've read (and I've been implementing TCP/IP since the late 70s).  I also like the up-to-date and complete descriptions of services and protocols, which cover the traditional DNS and DHCP (in my UNIX days it was bootp), and the newer WINS and NAT.<br />Overall, this is one reference that anyone involved with network design, management or support should have.	2002-10-16
1378472:US	53037408	R3LWBOFIFCLY0R	0471237124	144112552	The Art of Deception: Controlling the Human Element of Security	Books	5	42	51	N	N	There are lessons here ...	While it's a temptation to impose value judgement about the author who is a convicted felon, I strongly urge anyone who is involved in security (IT and corporate), internal auditors and fraud prevention specialists to suspend any opinions of the author and to carefully read this book.<br />What we in the IT world call 'social engineering' is nothing more than a con that exploits human trust.  Mitnick was highly effective at social engineering and this book provides a wealth of information regarding his views of 'social engineering' vulnerabilities and how he exploited them.  He exposes the details of some of the most effective techniques used by those who use social engineering to accomplish their goals - whether those goals are as sinister as corporate espionage or fraud, or merely to prove that they can gain access to systems and information.  While some of the recommended countermeasures in this book may seem Draconian there is middle ground to implement effective controls that do not hamper business processes or impose overly restrictive policies.<br />The bottom line, though, is to learn from this book and distill the key lessons into knowledge throughout your organization.  Awareness is one of the most powerful security tools, and this book promotes that.  Also, while this book is ostensibly about IT security, the lessons imparted are as applicable to any other aspect of a business as they are to IT - in many ways there are even more applicable because the exploits are based on effective con games that were in existence long before computers came on the scene.	2002-10-13
1378805:US	53037408	R3BSARAQJJHDEF	9080671347	739251332	It Service Management: An Introduction	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	A landmark book for IT service support and delivery	This is an important book for a number of reasons.  First, it introduces the key concepts of the ITIL (IT Infrastructure Library) at a cost that is dramatically less than ITIL publications.  Second, it provides a highly structured framework for both service support and service delivery that is consistent with the IT Service Management Forum (itSMF), which is an international organization that supports and promotes service management as a profession and discipline.<br />Highlights of this book include the clear definition and key elements of both service support (incident, problem, configuration, change and release management, and service desk operations), and service delivery (service level management, IT services cost management, capacity, availability, security and service continuity management operations).<br />What I like is the fact that this book breaks free of the ITIL document pricing structure, which in my opinion has hampered promoting and disseminating the excellent knowledge and techniques embodied in the ITIL.  It also gives service support and delivery professionals a common vocabulary, defined definitions and an internationally proven approach.<br />This book is among the best I've read in 2002, and certainly among the most important books published this year for IT operations and infrastructure professionals.	2002-10-12
1379554:US	53037408	R3EI3LP9KFBUHP	0793152593	262425832	Portraits of Success: 9 Keys to Sustaining Value in Any Business	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Read this book twice and revisit it often	This is a difficult book to categorize - on one level it's a framework for business (or personal) success, on another it's an account of one man's personal observations and astute conclusions.  Above all, it's lucid and remarkably well written.  At the core it's about building self-esteem in yourself and others, and how to develop your most important assets - your people.<br />I like the way Mr. Hutcheson immediately draws you into his life and the forces and personalities which influenced him from an early age.  He clearly explains what the book is about and why he wrote it, weaving in story telling, analysis and definite purpose.  He continues by laying out the nine keys to sustaining value, which are actually guidelines that can be used in business or in personal endeavors.  Each key is empirically supported, is illustrated and reinforced by portraits of success, and is laid out as a set of action items which clearly show how to use the key.<br />My first pass through the book was fast and left me with the impression that much of it was common sense.  A more careful reading, however, showed that what seems like common sense if actually the author's ability to articulate insights gained through a lifetime as an executive who worked his way up in a family business, and his later observations as a consultant. I was so impressed with what I read that I gave a copy to my boss (I work for a privately held company based in India), and he was as impressed as I with the advice given and the clear outline for implementing it. It's about leadership, doing the right things for the right reasons, and how to build and maintain a distinctive culture.<br />This is a down-to-Earth book that imparts excellent advice and the insights behind the advice.  It is inspirational, yet practical, and is true to its title with respect to providing nine keys to sustaining business value.	2002-10-12
1379606:US	53037408	R382TAPHCFT495	9995440458	797074568	Software Quality Measurement: A Framework for Counting Problems and Defects/Sei-92-Tr-022	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A decade old, but remains a definitive work	This SEI technical report formed the foundation for the author's 1999 book titled &quot;Measuring the Software Process&quot; (coauthored with Anita D. Carleton; ISBN 0201604442).<br />Where the later book focused on measurement techniques that spanned the entire development life cycle, this one is confined to the narrower topic of defects.  What I like about this book, and why it isn't superseded by the later one, is the way it comprehensively covers all phases of defect management.  The chapters are sequenced as follows:  (1) a short introduction that covers the book's scope and discusses problems and defects within the context of software engineering environments,  (2) a framework for counting problems and defects, (3) problem and defect attributes, (4) an example defect problem count definition checklist, (5) an example problem count request form, (6) an example problem definition status form [Note that reproducible forms for the examples given in 4 through 6 are provided in Appendix C], (7) a summary of the framework for counting problems and defects that tie together the preceding chapters.  Chapter 8 provides recommendations that are more fully explored in the 1999 book I cited above, Appendix A is a glossary that is valuable to anyone new to measurement practices, and Appendix B is a collection of examples of how to use measurement results - Project Tracking-System Test, Tracking Customer Experience, and Improving the Software Product and Process.<br />If you are a member of an SQA team or PMO, or are involved with product quality improvement I strongly recommend this book as an introduction to problem and defect counting.  The framework is well thought out, and the in-depth discussion of all facets of the topic represents one of the most complete and focused despite the fact that this technical report was written over a decade ago.	2002-10-12
1384640:US	53037408	RO3X5KM6V6YXQ	0201703726	119472009	Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond	Books	5	40	43	N	Y	Should be an establish standard for documenting	Since reading a fascinating document titled &quot;CMU/SEI-2001-TN-010 - Documenting Software Architectures: Organization of Documentation Package&quot; a year ago and discovering that the approximately 20-page document was the basis for a book I have patiently waited, and am delighted with how the book turned out.<br />First, this book stands out as one of the clearest descriptions of how to not only document architectures, but how to manage the documentation project.  Second, this is not a dogmatic prescription for how to document, but instead gives a set of techniques and views that can be used singularly or in combination to produce documentation that meets the needs of all technical and business stakeholders.<br />When I read the brief predecessor to this book I liked the way different view types and styles were introduced, but was left to my own imagination and creativity to employ them based on scant descriptions.  This book rectifies those gaps by providing comprehensive guidance on how to create each view type and when it's most appropriate for inclusion into the documentation project.  I was also intrigued by the earlier document because it discussed 'information chunking', which is the basis for a technique in which I'm trained and certified called Information Mapping. The book expands on the earlier work, and it turns out that the material is not only consistent with Information Mapping at a high level, but also shares many core principles.  To me this is another plus because it will introduce readers who have not benefited from formal Information Mapping training to powerful and effective document design and development techniques.<br />Another strong point about this book is the attention paid to managing the documentation process - it's one thing to write clear documentation and quite another to manage a process where many writers contribute to the documentation.  I also liked the illustration examples, which epitomize how to effectively portray technical detail, and the discussion of other methods of documenting architecture.<br />In my opinion this book should become the standard for developing and managing documentation.  It belongs on the desk of every technical writer and on the bookshelf of every architect and designer.  I waited a year for this book and it was well worth the wait.ay technical detail, and the discussion of other methods of documenting architecture.<br />In my opinion this book should become the standard for developing and managing documentation.  It belongs on the desk of every technical writer and on the bookshelf of every architect and designer.  I waited a year for this book and it was well worth the wait.	2002-10-07
1384644:US	53037408	R2QHC7NQFOARIM	097208360X	184122143	SLM Solutions: A Buyer's Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exhaustively researched and clearly presented material	This book is to service level management consultants and prospective buyers of SLM solutions what Hoover's handbooks are to business intelligence - a complete and comprehensive survey of SLM solutions from major and minor vendors.<br />The information in this book is divided between timeless reference material and time-sensitive information.  The reference material is comprised of a thorough discussion of what service level management is, what is required to implement it, and the value and ROI that you should expect from both the processes and the tools.  The reference part of the book also extends to how to effectively manage the selection and procurement process of a solution.  This material is on the mark, is consistent with best practices in service level management, and is clearly written.  In fact, after reading the author's earlier book, \\"Foundations of Service Level Management\\" (ISBN 0672317435) I expected the depth and detail in which the reference part of this book delved.<br />Time-sensitive material that comprises the second part of the book consists of a collection of vendor brief that are arranged alphabetically from Aligent Technologies to WiredMinds, Inc.  Each brief is similar in format to Hoover's handbooks in that you are shown an 'At a Glance' view of the vendor (product/service offering, SLM solution, date founded, number of employees, target customer and operating requirements for the solution).  This is followed for each vendor by a more detailed view that covers product details (functionality, distinguishing features, support and pricing).  One nice touch here is that each product is also depicted in an architecture diagram.  Each vendor brief concludes with a summary, strengths and limitations from Enterprise Management Associates' (the book's authors) viewpoint.<br />In addition to the material in the book the publisher's website contains a wealth of additional material, which augments this book and adds considerable value to it.<br />If I could change one thing about the book it would be the title, which should be renamed to \\"SLM Solutions: a buyer's guide - 2002 Edition\\", which subsequent editions appearing twice a year.  Yes, the reference material is likely to remain the same, but the vendor information is in a constant state of flux and will render this excellent resource obsolete unless it's updated at least every six months.<br />Overall, this is an impressive compendium of information that reflects deep and exhaustive research and the authors' extensive knowledge of the subject.could change one thing about the book it would be the title, which should be renamed to \\"SLM Solutions: a buyer's guide - 2002 Edition\\", which subsequent editions appearing twice a year.  Yes, the reference material is likely to remain the same, but the vendor information is in a constant state of flux and will render this excellent resource obsolete unless it's updated at least every six months.  <br />Overall, this is an impressive compendium of information that reflects deep and exhaustive research and the authors' extensive knowledge of the subject.	2002-10-07
1384651:US	53037408	R3Q94OY8FULC1C	9812380159	7110363	E-Commerce Operations Management	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well written and [manufacturing] business focused	This excellent book was written as a college-level text, but is valuable to a much wider audience.<br />For business and technical professionals it bridges the gap among business, functional and technical stakeholders in e-commerce environments, especially those in which SAP R/3, PeopleSoft, Baan and other major ERP packages are implemented.<br />It systematically covers all of the major elements of any e-commerce environment, but is more suited for ERP because of the focus on supply chain and manufacturing topics.  Coverage is given to the following management and operational areas:  supply chain, product and process, purchasing, production scheduling, inventory, human resources and quality.  In addition, the book covers reengineering, and consulting management.<br />Not only is it informative and promotes understanding among all stakeholders, this book is also clearly written and an easy, interesting read.  I enjoyed it and have it on my list of recommendations for peers who work in the ERP environment and who need to gain an appreciation of the business and operational issues their technology supports.	2002-10-07
1384848:US	53037408	R2IJM7AIL93OIZ	0471170011	999047043	Practical Software Maintenance: Best Practices for Managing Your Software Investment	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent resource for process &amp; organizational aspects	What sets this book apart is the fact that is one of the few still in print that addresses software maintenance (the other one of which I am familiar is more focused on maintenance programming as opposed to maintenance as a process and discipline).<br />The main value is the maintenance-oriented framework that the author provides, which encompasses planning activities, a set of processes and organizational and cost considerations.  These are valuable guidelines and will help to clearly define the transition between application delivery and maintenance and support operations within IT.  Much of this material is also applicable to product-based organizations that produce commercial software.<br />I would have liked more information about maintenance metrics that I could have compared to resources I already have, and also would have liked more emphasis on reliability and quality metrics.  However, the book is more focused on processes and support, and it shines in those areas.  If you are interested in software maintenance from  developer's and software engineering viewpoints I recommend &quot;Designing Maintainable Software&quot; by Dennis D. Smith (ISBN 0387987835).  For metrics I strongly recommend &quot;Software Metrics: Establishing a Company-wide Program&quot; by Robert B. Grady ISBN 0138218447).	2002-10-07
1384976:US	53037408	R3SHR5PCXGPFGV	0738426393	491266650	Performance and Tuning Considerations for the P690 in a Cluster 1600	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Thorough, answers tough questions and provides insights	I recently completed an initial sizing and capacity study for a New England university that needed to consider alternatives to its existing SP cluster, which cannot support the planned user base for a PeopleSoft 8 Student Administration, HR and Financials migration.  The first hurdle, selecting a platform that could handle the requirements, resulted in the selection of a p690 (a.k.a. &quot;Regatta&quot;), and had this book been available when I was doing the initial study it would have answered questions that neither IBM (at the time) nor PeopleSoft could clearly answer.<br />More importantly, we are now in the planning stage for configuring and implementing the p690 and this book is a treasure trove of information.  It clearly and thoroughly explains the various configuration options, of which there are many factors given the complexity of the p690 and its flexibility.  In addition, I learned of configuration options that were not spelled out by the vendor and IBM, such as the concept of ALPARs (affinity logical partitions), and the full details on LPAR (logical partition) configuration considerations and options in general.  The combinations and permutations are extensive, and the configuration rules and constraints are clearly described, which eliminates a great deal of confusion.<br />Another interesting chapter is 4, Investigations, which details the book team's own experiments and results with respect to memory and page modes.  However the real eye-opener is in Appendix D, which shows how to integrate the p690 in an SP cluster - something we did not think was possible. As an aside, there are a few approaches, but if the LPAR approach is used the SP cluster will view each LPAR as a thin node.  I also liked the material on PE Benchmarker (to evaluate the Parallel Environment) and MPI Trace for analyzing Message Passing Interface performance.<br />This is a valuable book for anyone who needs to understand the p690 hardware environment and its complex array of configuration and tuning options, and is essential if you want to integrate a p690 into an existing SP environment.configuration and tuning options, and is essential if you want to integrate a p690 into an existing SP environment.	2002-10-07
1385245:US	53037408	R3JDIVG0A52YC6	0130329894	31953120	Web-Based Infrastructures: A 4-D Framework	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Finally!  Updated processes aligned to modern environments	Having read (and reviewed) the eleven previous books in the Enterprise Computing series my expectations for this book were high - and completely met.<br />Like the other books in the series the structure and content covers people, process and technology, with an emphasis on business and stakeholder requirements.  Unlike the other books, which are steeped in traditional approaches to reliability, availability and support processes that were born in the mainframe environment, this one gives those proven processes a facelift and aligns them to the realities of web time and pressures.  Not that the parent processes were flawed - they were not agile enough to support the rapidly changing technical and business requirements that are constantly emerging.  However, the best part of this book is that it never loses sight of business imperatives, which is something that needs to be reinforced in the minds of IT operations and management staff.<br />The book starts with a detailed discussion of business drivers, then covers the four essential dimensions of the web infrastructure framework.  This is a blend of business- and technical-oriented actions, which includes understanding all factors and drivers, planning and phased implementation, value chain analysis and agile processes.  In fact, the one aspect of the earlier books that I lamented - forcing old (but proven and necessary) processes, such as change control into web-based and e-business environments was not working.  While the processes are essential, they needed streamlining, which is something many of us who specialize in service support and delivery have been grappling with. This book provides streamlined approaches that meet the requirements of contemporary environments, while maintaining the integrity of the processes themselves. This alone is reason enough to read this book.<br />The book ends with a case study that illustrates the key points made in the main body of the book, and also provides excellent material in the four appendices (including change control templates).in the four appendices (including change control templates).	2002-10-07
1385501:US	53037408	R2M91SXRV5RC3S	0130282286	132943791	Requirements Analysis: From Business Views to Architecture	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Work of a dream team	I had to buy this book when I saw the authors' names on the cover, both of whom I hold in the highest regard and both of whose previous books have deeply impressed and influenced me (Hay's &quot;Data Model Patterns: Conventions of Thought&quot; (ISBN 0932633293) and von Halle's &quot;Business Rules Applied: Building Better Systems Using the Business Rules Approach&quot; (ISBN 0471412937).<br />As in their other books the authors prove they have a deep understanding of their subject matter, which is the case of this book is the Zachman Framework.  The Zachman framework is quickly introduced in Chapter 1, followed by a process model for analysis. Their combined and complementary knowledge of planning and managing implementation projects are evident in the second chapter.  This chapter is essential because implementing an architecture based on the Zachman framework is complex and requires careful planning (not to mention selling to stakeholders).<br />The remaining chapters dissect each view of the Zachman Framework (displayed in columns in the formal model), and provide sufficient information with which to elicit the business requirements and develop the architecture.<br />What I like about this book is the way the authors make what is a complex undertaking seem straightforward - and it is straightforward if you follow the approach outlined in the book.  Another thing I like is the fresh look at the Zachman Framework - the last book of any importance on the topic was [in my opinion] &quot;Enterprise Architecture Planning: Developing a Blueprint for Data, Applications and Technology&quot; by Steven H. Spewak and  Steven C. Hill (ISBN 0471599859), published in 1993.  This newer book continues where Spewak and Hill left off.<br />Regardless of whether you plan to espouse the Zachman Framework, or if your goal is to assure that you capture requirements that are meaningful to the business domain, this book will provide you with insights and a structured approach.	2002-10-07
1385865:US	53037408	R15COAPOBEMK47	0738427063	519447807	Introducing IBM Tivoli Service Level Advisor: July 2002 (IBM Redbooks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In-depth with multiple audiences	This book is an invaluable resource to not only readers who are planning, implementing or managing Tivoli Service Level Advisor, but to anyone who is evaluating it as a potential enterprise support system or who is involved in service level management consulting.<br />For the first group this book thoroughly explains how Tivoli Service Level Advisor works, how to configure it, and how to deploy and manage it. It also contains a wealth of information about troubleshooting problems, as well as how to uninstall it.<br />If you are evaluating Service Level Advisor the book is a factual examination of the entire process from planning to administration and contains sufficient details from which to derive rough total costs of ownership. This is a complex application and will, as shown in the book, require multiple skills and training if it's to be effectively employed. The same information will be valuable to service level management consultants who need to remain abreast of the tools available to support service level management in large enterprises (this is not an application that will provide ROI to small-to-medium sized enterprises).<br />For all readers the information in this book goes well beyond Service Level Advisor - the team who put this book together did an outstanding job of describing service level management as a discipline, as well as thoroughly covering the way Service Level Advisor aligns to the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) approach to service support and delivery. Given that this approach has become a growing standard worldwide the information provided will introduce the ITIL to those who are new to service level management.<br />This book is well written, filled with relevant detail and authoritative with respect to Service Level Advisor in particular and service level management in general.	2002-10-06
1385973:US	53037408	R1TL269FUN89XN	0273652966	58037066	Delivering on Your E-Promise: Managing E-Business Projects	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Solid	Designed as a textbook for college-level courses, this book exposes students (and working practitioners) to what it realistically takes to manage an e-business project. Given the deplorable failure rate of such projects (and IT projects in general) the information and approach provided in this book, if followed, will go a long way towards reversing that trend.<br /><br />What I especially like is the seamless blend of business and technical issues, and the way the author presents the realities of managing e-business projects. In particular, the first five chapters (nearly half of the book) cover the pitfalls to avoid, gives insights into critical success factors, and uncovers the technical and business aspects of e-business project management. The final six chapters tie together this material with case studies and other material that reinforce the first half.<br /><br />Specific project management techniques are not covered in detail - if that is the type of book you're seeking I recommend [[ASIN:3540421653 Managing e-Business Projects]]. That book goes into project planning, estimating and control techniques as they specifically relate to e-business projects and complements this book nicely.<br /><br />If you are a working professional and want insights into the pitfalls of e-business projects this book is an excellent resource. If you are teaching a course you'll prepare your students for the realities of e-business projects and make them more valuable to the workforce they will be joining if you include this book as a text. Either way it is, in my opinion, a book that delivers valuable knowledge and insights.	2002-10-06
1385991:US	53037408	R3R0F2RGE8J7YB	3540421653	936928250	Managing e-Business Projects	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Filled with effective techniques	Although this book is about managing e-business projects the information can be effectively applied to any IT or software development project.  The author starts with an accurate portrayal of the differences between traditional IT projects and the unique issues associated with e-business projects, then launches into one of the best descriptions of how to effectively manage an e-business project that I've read to date.<br />What makes this book so valuable, in my opinion, is the structured approach that is provided for planning, estimating and controlling an e-business project.  Every aspect is thoroughly covered, starting with setting scope and developing the work breakdown structure, to managing documentation.  Key areas covered by the chapters in this book include how to manage:  scope, schedule, cost, stakeholder and team, risk, technology, quality, change, subcontractors and documentation.  In other words, the full spectrum of key success factors.  In fact the subtitle of this book is &quot;99 Key Success Factors&quot; and it lives up to that subtitle.<br />I've not found a more complete book that covers the range of techniques that this one contains, which is why I highly recommend it to anyone who is involved in planning and managing an e-business project. Another point is that the topic areas are closely aligned to the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge, although the author does not make any claims that this is the case. As such, this book is particularly valuable to project managers and organizations who work within that framework.<br />Where this book provides the sequence and techniques, &quot;Delivering on Your e-Promise: Managing e-Business Projects&quot; by Yen Yee Chong (ISBN 0273652966) seamlessly augments it by providing the business context and a detailed focus on the realities of managing e-business projects, making the combination of the two books a complete resource for e-business project managers.	2002-10-06
1386087:US	53037408	R283KJW2CA9WU	0130137863	159297307	IT Automation: The Quest for Lights Out	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent treatment of essential core processes	The practices outlined in this book are the foundation of IT operational service, availability and support.  This book covers the key elements necessary for achieving a high level of IT operational excellence in great detail.  I especially like the way production acceptance criteria is emphasized - this is an often overlooked topic that merits its own book - and the clear outline of how to implement change control (often talked about, but sadly missing in many organizations), and the clear distinction between problem management and the much narrower scope of help desk support operations.<br />Some of the issues raised by the previous reviewer regarding updating the core processes and procedures for contemporary operations in e-commerce and web-based environments are addressed in the newest book in this series titled &quot;Web-Based Infrastructures: A 4-D Framework&quot; by Sanmay Mukhopadhyay and Cooper Smith (ISBN 0130329894). Although that book does address the gaps noted, this book is still invaluable because it focuses strictly on the core elements while the newer book has a wider scope.<br />If you are a member of an IT operations management team or are involved with service level management this book will prove to be an invaluable resource, and is one that I highly recommend.	2002-10-06
1386205:US	53037408	R1GSFEBVI686HP	0130812463	445646519	Software Development: Building Reliable Systems	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Best suited to internal IT/IS - technology section is weak	The excellent previous comments by Per Kisler and Linda Zarate sum up this book from a general software engineering perspective.  The main value of this book, in my opinion, is that the material addresses internal IT/IS software development more than product-line development or software engineering environments.<br />If you are seeking guidance on organizing an MIS development group this book is an excellent resource, especially with respect to organization and processes.  If your are more interested in development from a product-line or software engineering perspective I recommend &quot;Successful Software Development&quot; by Scott E. Donaldson and Stanley G. Siegel (ISBN 0130868264).<br />For MIS development this book benefits from the extensive experience of Harris Kern (who is the Enterprise Computing series editor of which this book is a part), and the focus in IT/IS organizational and process factors.  In fact, this book is particularly strong in the way it integrates IT/IS operations and management organization and process with software development.  I especially like the emphasis on people and process, but like others who have previously commented I feel that the parts of this book that address technology are weak and should be eliminated from any subsequent edition.<br />The sections on developer recruiting and retention are especially well done, and the issues and factors of integrating processes are discussed in detail, making this an invaluable resource for the right audience.	2002-10-06
1386432:US	53037408	R1KEF2VV2ZJJFD	0849311934	30794301	Six Sigma Software Development	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Much needed book for the SW engineering community	There are a number of books about measuring the software process or employing applied statistics in the software engineering environment, but this is the first one that solely addresses 6-Sigma as it applies to software development.<br />What I like is that, unlike other 6-sigma books that address manufacturing or business processes, this one does not come across as evangelistic or prescriptive.  Instead Ms. Tayntor explains what 6-sigma is and how it can be effectively applied to software development.  The first two chapters thoroughly cover the basics and benefits of 6-Sigma to provide a foundation for the rest of the book.  My only complaint about the opening chapters is they cover the DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, Control) framework, which assumes that processes exist, but need to be improved. In my opinion, since this book is introducing 6-Sigma the focus should have been on DMADV (Define, Measure, Analyze, Design, Verify).  However, this is a fine point and does not substantially detract from this excellent book.<br />After laying the foundation, the book then covers how 6-Sigma applies to different development life cycle approaches (waterfall, rapid development, prototyping, etc.), and also how it applies to legacy operations.  I especially liked the latter because she addresses change control, maintenance and support functions - important, but often overlooked topics.  The book also discusses topics outside of the normal realm of software development, such as packaged software, outsourcing, and IT operations.  In addition, the appendices are especially valuable because they cover how to map functional processes, conduct a failure mode and effects analysis, and rank priorities.<br />This book is an important resource to the software engineering community, and is especially valuable to CMM level 4 and 5 organizations.  Most importantly, it brings techniques that have been amply proven in the manufacturing and service sectors to software engineering and shows how they can be realistically applied.and shows how they can be realistically applied.	2002-10-06
1386481:US	53037408	R30494SEOZQ7WT	0471899410	573434893	Enabling eBusiness - Integrating Technologies Architectures & Applications	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well written &amp; business-focused	Although the title implies that this book is aimed at technical readers, it is strictly focused on the business aspects of e-business, with just enough emphasis on technology to educate non technical readers.<br />Among what I most like about the book is the clear writing, and the level of detain into which it goes into business and technical aspects of e-business.  Technical readers will greatly benefit from the business aspects, especially the parts about online retailing and marketing.  Moreover, some excellent material on customer relationship management is interwoven throughout the book, which will benefit both the business and technical reader.  I also liked the parts about supply chain management, and trust, security and electronic money - these topics are important to business and technical readers and the material is accurate and clearly explained.<br />For business readers the details on architecture and technical underpinnings will arm them with the knowledge necessary for dealing with the technical side when it comes to implementing and managing the technology needed to support business imperatives.<br />There are additional bonuses to this book - it addresses knowledge management from a business perspective (important to providing online service and support to customers as well as showing how internal business processes need to be aligned to support online commerce), and keen insights on how the people side of the business needs to be structured to enable e-business operations.<br />Overall, this is an excellent view of the realities of implementing and managing e-business, and will provide common ground for the business and technical team members who will be charged with making it happen.	2002-10-06
1386658:US	53037408	R3VWGNSB3B1V9R	0970350929	82115858	Workflow Handbook 2003	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Important resource for workflow & process practitioners	If you're involved in business process or workflow design, or business process reengineering this book will prove to be an invaluable resource.  What I like is that there is something for those who are new to workflow as a discipline, as well as for seasoned professionals.  Each chapter is a paper written by an expert in their respective field, and the editing holds this book together in a coherent manner.<br />For the new practitioner the first two chapters of Section I clearly explain workflow and architectures.  They are followed by six chapters on topics ranging from business process and process management issues, to web, peer-to-peer and XML architecture - all of which are important elements of workflow and process engineering.<br />Section II covers workflow standards as they relate to the work of the Workflow Management Coalition, and is completely up-to-date, especially with respect to WF-XML.  Note: there are related standards flying about, such as BPEL4WS, WSCI, BPML, OASIS and a plethora of others - but many of those are marginally related to workflow at best, and at worst are political posturing among vendors and other organizations.  This book sticks to a much narrower (and, in my opinion, purer, agenda-free) set of standards.<br />Section III is a collection of case studies from which the seasoned and new practitioner can both learn.  I personally liked this section the most because of the different viewpoints and methods presented, all of which led to success and recognition for excellence in implementing workflow solutions.<br />The final section, IV, was of marginal interest to me - it's a collection of appendices that covers the Workflow Management Coalition organization, membership and briefs about the authors who contributed to this book.<br />In addition to this book I highly recommend the 2001 edition, which is filled with related information, none of which is out of date.  In fact, instead of getting the book, get the CD ROM version titled \\"Workflow Handbook 2001 Companion CD ROM\\" (ISBN 0970350910), which contains the entire contents of the book in PDF format as well as much more content.  If, like me, you are more interested in the case studies, the editor (Layna Fischer) has assembled four books of case studies:  \\"Excellence in Practice: Innovation and Excellence in Workflow and Imaging\\" (ISBN 0964023350), \\"Excellence in Practice Vol II\\" (ISBN 0964023369), \\"Excellence in Practice Vol III\\" (ISBN 0964023385) and \\"Excellence in Practice Vol IV\\" (ISBN 0964023393).<br />If a CD ROM companion for this book is published as it was for the previous edition it would add considerable value to this book, but it's still an essential resource for anyone who I identified as the target audience.rkflow Handbook 2001 Companion CD ROM\\" (ISBN 0970350910), which contains the entire contents of the book in PDF format as well as much more content.  If, like me, you are more interested in the case studies, the editor (Layna Fischer) has assembled four books of case studies:  \\"Excellence in Practice: Innovation and Excellence in Workflow and Imaging\\" (ISBN 0964023350), \\"Excellence in Practice Vol II\\" (ISBN 0964023369), \\"Excellence in Practice Vol III\\" (ISBN 0964023385) and \\"Excellence in Practice Vol IV\\" (ISBN 0964023393).<br />If a CD ROM companion for this book is published as it was for the previous edition it would add considerable value to this book, but it's still an essential resource for anyone who I identified as the target audience.	2002-10-06
1390281:US	53037408	RS2SVVA7QYE17	0761528423	660540842	Web Site Analysis and Reporting	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Big Picture - a little short on depth, but valuable	Despite some contrary comments, this book does live up to its title. The 32 chapters and three appendices, divided into eight parts, cover the full spectrum of web site analysis. The \\"Analysis\\" part of the title is addressed in the following parts of the book: (I - Web Site Design) in which you're shown how to analyze your own site for page effectiveness and accessibility, (III - The Web Engineering Process) that provides guidelinees for evaluating your internal processes and your site's projected ethics and trustworthiness, (V - Creating Engine-Friendly Web Sites) in which you're stepped through both competitive analysis and technology selection techniques, and (VII - Tracking Traffic to Benefit Your Site) that covers log analysis.<br /><br />What I especially like about this book, and what sets it apart from other excellent books on the topic, is the part on security - a rare topic that needs to be highlighted in more such books, and Part II, which provides techniques and advice for capitalizing on return traffic.<br /><br />Overall, this book may fall short of your expectations if you're looking for in-depth treatment of how to mine, analyze and report traffic data. However, for the big picture this book stands out as one of the most complete and comprehensive I've read.	2002-10-02
1390419:US	53037408	R15C70DHJHMZU1	1580533140	97399977	Risk Based E-Business Testing (Artech House Computer Library,)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Invaluable source of knowledge - excellent approach	Although the focus is on e_business testing this book has changed my views about the realities of risk-based testing for any environment.  First, the authors give a dose of reality regarding the differences between 'best practices' provided in the testing body of knowledge that is growing into hundreds of books (less than two years ago there were only a few dozen books on software testing, so this is a positive trend for the profession as a whole).  Second, the fallacies in conventional risk-based testing are exposed. Here the authors propose that testing be exclusively focused on product risk, instead of trying to encompass the wider scope that includes project and process risk.  This, in my opinion, is sage advice and keeps testing focused on areas where it can contribute to a project's success.<br />Among the strong points of this book are it's clear writing, which is full of examples, and the logical sequence in which the material is presented.  In addition, the clear definitions of general risk management and associated processes and procedures, and how it all ties together are among the most succinct I've read.  However, the best aspect of this book is the way the chapters build upon each other, and the complete coverage of risk-based testing.<br />Specifics include a general chapters on risk-based e-business testing and types of web site failures that lay the foundation for the technical aspects of the book.  These are followed by chapters that show how to develop an e-business test strategy, how to fit risk analysis to a test process, and a comprehensive treatment of test techniques and tools. The latter is especially valuable because it covers the full range of testing techniques that are tailored to e-business testing, which includes static, web page integration, functional, service and usability testing.  This part of the book also includes security testing and large scale integration testing - both of which make this one of the most complete collections of test techniques for e-business as well as general testing.<br />The remainder of the book covers the context of e-business testing (including brief advice on how it fits within Extreme Programming and the Unified Process), E-business test organization, planning and specifications (a wealth of information for the test manager), and E-business test execution (which also addresses important topics such as incident management and testing in a live environment).  The two appendices, Essential Web Technologies for Testers and Web Testing Using Home Brew Tools are also valuable.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is involved in E-business testing, and also recommend that it be used in conjunction with Systematic Software Testing by Rick D. Craig by Stefan P. Jaskiel (ISBN 1580535089), which nicely augments this book.s of test techniques for e-business as well as general testing.<br />The remainder of the book covers the context of e-business testing (including brief advice on how it fits within Extreme Programming and the Unified Process), E-business test organization, planning and specifications (a wealth of information for the test manager), and E-business test execution (which also addresses important topics such as incident management and testing in a live environment).  The two appendices, Essential Web Technologies for Testers and Web Testing Using Home Brew Tools are also valuable.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is involved in E-business testing, and also recommend that it be used in conjunction with Systematic Software Testing by Rick D. Craig by Stefan P. Jaskiel (ISBN 1580535089), which nicely augments this book.	2002-10-02
1428611:US	53037408	R1P9NSEU0WRGY9	1850328048	510287059	Patterns of Software System Failure and Success	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Mythical Man Month Revisited	In many respects this book is an amalgamation of the author's previous work, especially &quot;Assessment and Control of Software Risks&quot; (1994) and &quot;Software Productivity and Quality Today: The Worldwide Perspective&quot; (1993).<br />First, don't be misled by the work &quot;Patterns&quot; in the title - this book is not structured in a design patterns format that has emerged as a popular standard.  Instead it's an analysis and  findings from an extensive collection of software project metrics from large projects (half million lines of code and greater) that were either successful or failed.<br />The descriptions of the projects, how the analyses were performed and the findings are, in my experience, still valid today as they were when this book was written.  More importantly, they serve as a set of guidelines for critical success factors, which can be derived from the twelve attributes that Jones culls from the study: effective project planning, effective project cost estimating, effective project measurements, effective project milestone tracking, effective project quality control, effective project change management, effective development processes, effective communications, capable project managers, capable technical personnel, significant use of specialists, substantial volumes of reusable material.<br />Not surprising, the major pitfalls in the projects that failed were caused by poor management and leadership.  In fact, this book states what to many of us are truisms, but backs them up with ample statistics and excellent research.  In my opinion every software project manager should be required to read this book before being turned loose on a major project.	2002-08-26
1428672:US	53037408	R20I71LJMZB6F8	0137414064	28723890	Assessment and Control of Software Risks	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Still quite valid in all respects (unfortunately)	While an update to this book would be nice, the fact is that the major risks cited in this 1994 classic continue to be risks in 2002.  What I like about this book is the way it's organized and structured.  Jones starts with two chapters that highlight the most common and the most serious software risks.  In that respect the essence of the book is provided up front.<br />The rest of the book is a catalog of the top 43 risks, presented in a quasi-pattern format (that predates the GoF patterns movement), using a medical metaphor, based on the US Public Health Service publication titled &quot;Control of Communicable Diseases in Man&quot; as the pattern. The format is highly effective and intuitive, and also plants a subtle notion that the risk can be cured. The risks are arranged alphabetically for easy reference and range from Artificial Maturity Levels to Slow Technology Transfer, with the usual suspects that have plagued software engineering since its inception: corporate politics, excessive schedule pressure, low user satisfaction, malpractice (project management and technical staff), silver bullet syndrome ... sound familiar?  In my opinion, until cures are found for the risks cited in the book we, as a profession, don't need an updated list of more.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone who manages software engineering projects or processes.  If you want a more condensed version of this book get Jones' &quot;Software Systems Failure and Success&quot;, which was published in 1996.  That book distills critical success (or failure, depending on your perspective) factors into a manageable group of twelve attributes.  It doesn't fully replace this book, but does augment it well.	2002-08-26
1429165:US	53037408	R2NYJ592DLD175	0782129307	565823640	Understanding PeopleSoft 8	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Amazingly complete implementation guide	If you're looking for guidance on administering or using PeopleSoft version 8 this book is going to disappoint you.  If, however, you are responsible for implementing PeopleSoft (or upgrading from 7.x), this is *the* book to get.  In fact, much of this book can be applied to SAP R/3, Baan, JDE or other ERP implementations - where the book outlines PeopleSoft-specific information, you can use the chapter headings to outline the technical and configuration requirements of any ERP system.<br />What I especially like is the thoroughness and level of detail that the author gives.  Do not think that this is a 'gold plated' plan that is based on Big 5 practices.  It isn't.  There are no steps that can be omitted by any prudent CIO or consulting company (I gave the entire book a critical review to see if there were any).  What you get is a realistic look at what it takes from business, process, organizational and technical perspectives to implement PeopleSoft in particular, and any ERP system in general.  The scope and magnitude of the effort as outlined is realistic, and covers the full implementation life cycle from determining the value of PeopleSoft to your organization, the impact on business processes, full costs of implementation and ownership, and the milestones.  Moreover, this book covers post implementation factors and costs, which is among the most thorough I've encountered.<br />There are a few areas where the book gets hazy, such as capacity and performance planning.  The author rightfully claims that each platform has different characteristics, and the vendor should be consulted.  I actually found the key to developing a first cut capacity and performance plan in PeopleSoft's documentation, so it can be done in a generic fashion.<br />Here are the highlights of this book as I see them:<br />- a complete description of the features in PeopleSoft 8 (which are significantly different from version 7), and a high level comparison between the two versions.<br />- realistic assessment of post implementation support (often overlooked)<br />- step-by-step, detailed planning and implementation milestones (so well done that I'm frankly shocked that Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young allowed this book to be published since it gives away valuable advice that is that company's intellectual capital)<br />- one of the best technical descriptions of PeopleSoft 8 I've read (you'd have to spend much more time going through PeopleDocs and other sources to get the same knowledge that this book provides)<br />If you're a consultant who specializes in PeopleSoft (or any other ERP) implementation, a CIO who needs the complete picture of ramifications, or a project manager who is charged with managing an implementation or upgrade this book will be your best friend.ealistic assessment of post implementation support (often overlooked)<br />- step-by-step, detailed planning and implementation milestones (so well done that I'm frankly shocked that Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young allowed this book to be published since it gives away valuable advice that is that company's intellectual capital)<br />- one of the best technical descriptions of PeopleSoft 8 I've read (you'd have to spend much more time going through PeopleDocs and other sources to get the same knowledge that this book provides)<br />If you're a consultant who specializes in PeopleSoft (or any other ERP) implementation, a CIO who needs the complete picture of ramifications, or a project manager who is charged with managing an implementation or upgrade this book will be your best friend.	2002-08-26
1429262:US	53037408	R2OF2T2MDZS7T0	1574441337	778097365	A Practical Guide to Information Systems Strategic Planning	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Proven approach and a detailed roadmap	This book, like all of Ms. Cassidy's work, is straightforward, to the point and reads like a blueprint for success.  In particular, she frames the objectives (Where are we?  Where do we need to be?  What's the best way to get there?), then gives guidance on answering the questions and a realistic and actionable plan for meeting the objectives.<br />Her approach is focused on business needs and linked to the overriding imperatives and strategies of that domain.  She begins by discussing the business drivers and why strategic planning is necessary, then provides a phased approach to the strategic planning process itself.  This approach captures the business and technical \\"as-is\\" and \\"to-be\\" pictures, performs a gap analysis, and a plan for going from \\"as-is\\" to \\"to-be\\".  On the surface this appears to be common sense, but the devil is in the details, and she provides the details.  That is what makes this book so valuable.  More importantly, it's obvious that she has extensive experience in strategic planning because all of the subtle issues are addressed, and her advice is on the mark every step of the way.<br />Of course, one of the big issues in strategic planning is the question of what capital investments to make in software, either as an upgrade or entire replacement of company-critical systems, that align to the slected strategy.  This book shows how to select the best fit to meet strategic plans, and how to capture the true costs and support requirements as a matter of due diligence.<br />This book is, in my opinion, one of the better ones on the topic, and is only exceeded by her most recent book titled \\"A Practical Guide to Planning for E-Business Success: How to E-enable Your Enterprise\\".  That book contains substantially the same approach as this one, but is aligned to e-business.  Regardless of which book you choose, you'll find Ms. Cassidy's approach to reflect best practices, and the advice interspersed throughout the book to be invaluable.	2002-08-26
1429404:US	53037408	R3OIMKDB0AMV6S	0130894257	347368459	Analyzing Application Service Providers (Sun Microsystems Press)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Packed with information for a wide range of readers	This book is essential reading for all stakeholders in an ASP scenario:  providers, clients, and investors/venture capitalists. The reasons for this bold statement are:<br />- PROVIDERS:  Chapters 3 (Understanding ASP), 5 (Network Computing and ASP Architectures), 8 (ASP Security Services), and 10 (ASP Enabling: Requirements and Fulfillment) cover the critical success factors that the ASP needs to ensure, as well as gives a good overview of what it takes to frame a value proposition to potential clients.<br />- CLIENTS:  Chapters 2 (Why Companies Outsource), 3 (Understanding ASP), 6 (ASP Types and Services), and 7 (Managing ASPs) show what to expect from an ASP, how to determine if outsourcing to one makes business sense, and how to effectively manage an ASP after the contract is signed.<br />- INVESTORS/VCs: Chapters 1 (The History and Evolution of Outsourcing and ASP), 2 (Why Companies Outsource), 4 (Taxonomy for ASP Economies), 9 (Strategic Analysis of ASP Types), and 11 (The Future of ASP) make a compelling case in favor of investing in an ASP, and how to properly evaluate proposed business models.<br />To be sure there is a lot of overlap of material that will be of interest between and among the stakeholders cited above, but the chapters I cited will be the ones that each should read first.  What makes this book so valuable is the panoramic view of the ASP industry, and the level of detail that each topic is given.  The author knows his stuff, and, more importantly, knows how to clearly communicate it.<br />If you are among the stakeholder groups cited above this is the single most informative book on the topic to date.	2002-08-26
1429679:US	53037408	R2GG5XQGH0LCR7	0967773008	417777345	SQR Programmer Reference: SQR Language Version 2.x-5.x	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terse ... complete ... handy - don't write SQR without it	This terse guide is an essential reference for SQR developers of all levels of experience. However, it's the occasional coder who will benefit the most. It's not for learning SQR, but for serving as a memory jogger, especially for command line options, units of measure and symbol and font sets.<br /><br />Other nice features include HTML procedures, data types, expressions and a complete command reference.<br /><br />If you only occasionally code in SQR you'll love this guide.	2002-08-25
1429714:US	53037408	R27TLP4E3MXCXG	1574442813	522146076	A Practical Guide to Information Systems Process Improvement	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Provides a blueprint and a compass	This book is important for two reasons:  (1) it describes what a process is and the main characteristics shared by processes regardless of the model used, and (2) it provides a clearly defined approach to implementing processes and a framework for improving them.<br />Why these two reasons are important is because most IS/IT professionals have a vague idea about what processes are.  They can visualize them on a conceptual level, but not on a detail level as a flow with measurable attributes.  The way the authors portray processes allow all stakeholders (producers and consumers) of a process chain to use the same definition and to objectively measure the same characteristics.  This cross-functional understanding and agreement is essential to process improvement.  However, understanding processes and having a clear definition are only half the equation - implementing and improving them can be a daunting task without a clearly defined roadmap.  Therein is the main value of this book:  it provides that roadmap.  You can either get to your destination by trial and error, false starts and wasted time and resources, or you can follow the identification, selection, \\"as-is\\" assessment, \\"to-be\\" target and implementation plan sequence that are presented.  The authors highlight key points and pitfalls each step of the way, which is based on their extensive experience from which you'll benefit.<br />If you're involved in process design and/or improvement in IS/IT this book will point you in the right direction and get you moving forward.	2002-08-25
1429751:US	53037408	R3PK1SPJNRZ0U6	0849311438	647762234	Customer Relationship Management Systems Handbook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Blend of business and technical with more focus on technical	This book covers some of the business aspects of CRM, but is more slanted towards the technical underpinnings.  This is not a criticism, but to set expectations.  That said, there are many valuable business insights in the book, the best of which is the coverage of privacy issues, and the detailed case studies.<br />For the more technically inclined reader the detailed discussions of data warehousing, data mining and analytical tools and techniques are accurate and up-to-date.  I especially liked the focus on data quality, which is a much larger issue than many suspect.  I also liked the 12-stage CRM strategy that is given.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book for IT professionals who need to understand the high level technical issues, as well as the business ramifications of implementing and supporting a CRM system.  For IT management and business professionals I prefer &quot;The CRM Handbook&quot; by Jill Dych&eacute;, which explains much of the technical material in business terms, and takes a stronger business perspective.  However, that reflects my personal preferences and opinion - the bottom line is this book does an excellent job of covering the full spectrum of CRM and does so in easy to understand language.	2002-08-25
1429949:US	53037408	R3L7WO2FEZZZP0	1574443046	400418248	A Practical Guide to Planning for E-Business Success:  How to E-enable Your Enterprise	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Detailed, straightforward roadmap to success	If you've read Ms. Cassidy's two previous books on IS process improvement and IS strategic planning you'll recognize her straightforward, structured approach to planning for e-Business.<br />This book lays out a roadmap in eight steps:<br />(1) planning<br />(2) assessing the current environment and situation<br />(3) developing a business case framed as a value proposition<br />(4) defining the opportunities and competitive posture<br />(5) determining all factors and impacts (application architecture, technical architecture, business process, information systems, people and organizational and cost/benefit)<br />(6) design (including user interface, security and other important factors)<br />(7) deliver (develop, test, release and support)<br />(8) discuss (elicit feedback, analyze and rectify/improve)<br />The steps is an effective e-business life cycle, and the level of detail into which this book goes will provide ample material for developing a high level plan of action that takes all of the important issues and factors into account.	2002-08-25
1429953:US	53037408	R14SQOOCD0WVGU	0201752948	8867093	Oracle SQL and PL/SQL Handbook: A Guide for Data Administrators, Developers,  and Business Analysts	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Balanced for for business and technical readers	This is an excellent book aspiring DBAs, developers who need to get up to speed in Oracle, IT business systems analysts and business power users.<br />Since this book has such a wide potential audience I'll highlight the chapters that will be of most interest to each segment.  All readers will benefit from the introduction and chapter 1, which explains relational databases and entity-relationship diagrams.  In particular, the E-R diagrams plus the clear discussion of keys and joins are the roadmap to the data and need to be understood by less technical users who want to fully exploit the power of SQL and PL/SQL, which are covered later in the book.<br />Chapters 2 and 3 cover material that more technical users will find useful:  \\"Building the Database with the Data Definition Language\\" and \\"The Data Control and Data Manipulation Languages and the Data Dictionary\\".  I especially liked the fact that my favorite utility, TOAD, was covered in this section - if you are a new DBA chances are you already use it. If you're a developer, chances are that you'll add it to your development environment.<br />The heart of this book is in Chapters 4-12.  These chapters are for all readers, and they thoroughly cover SQL*Plus in detail. By the time you've finished these chapters (assuming you work through the practice exercises and put in effort) you'll be a SQL*Plus power user.<br />Chapter 13 covers data warehouses and shows how to use Oracle Discoverer 4.0. This material is for both technical and business users. The remaining chapters cover PL/SQL, which is aimed at the technical users.  The coverage of PL/SQL is not nearly as deep as the coverage of SQL*Plus.  Since most business users and the intended technical audience will benefit more from the in-depth treatment of SQL*Plus, the PL/SQL material is, in my opinion, a good introduction that can be followed up in a book, such as \\"Oracle9i PL/SQL Programming\\" by Scott Urman.	2002-08-25
1430332:US	53037408	R1T7XKFRDIYZ0I	1884777775	103411261	Sqr in PeopleSoft and Other Applications	Books	5	2	2	N	N	*The* standard reference on SQR	Aside from the fact that there is no other book that teaches SQR, this book is unique and valuable for following reasons:<br />- It teaches good programming practices.  Anyone who has developed in any procedural language (including scripting and query languages) can quickly learn SQR.  Therein lies a problem that this book overcomes: the excellent advice given about program development and structure can offset bad habits picked up in other languages.<br />- It's a definitive resource for SQR developers.  Although SQR is relatively easy to learn, it's also rich with features missing from most other languages, such as complete control over printed and screen output, built-in constructs for graphs and charts, and multiple output file formats.  Using many of these features not easy for beginners or programmers more used to other languages, but this book shows by example how to exploit every feature SQR has to offer.<br />- It dispels the common notion that SQR is a PeopleSoft-only tool.  In fact, PeopleSoft doesn't own the language, and SQR will work in any database environment.  More important, the book shows how to develop application and database independent programs that will work in any environment.  This is an awakening for those who are going down proprietary paths, such as standardizing on Oracle's PL/SQL.  While PL/SQL itself a powerful language, but is limited to Oracle - migrating from Oracle to, say, DB2 requires that all PL/SQL programs be scrapped.  Had the applications and reports been developed in SQR the only changes would be to tables referenced.<br />In addition to the above, this book also provides good practices for forming SQL queries and understanding how a poorly formed join can make the difference between a resource hog and an unintrusive application.  Since SQL, like SQR, is easy to learn many developers take the path of least resistance and develop queries with no thought on their effect on production systems.  This book gives sound advice for avoiding that mistake.<br />The section on PeopleSoft, while out of date with respect to version 8, still contains valuable information for the majority of SQR developers whose exposure to SQR is via PeopleSoft.<br />There is something for everyone in this book - beginners can learn SQR the right way, and seasoned developers will have a ready reference that covers almost every facet of SQR in practical terms.  If your job is primarily SQR development I also recommend that you also get a copy of &quot;SQR Programmer Reference&quot; by Don Mellen (ISBN 0967773008) as a quick reference to the features and nuances of SQR.avoiding that mistake.<br />The section on PeopleSoft, while out of date with respect to version 8, still contains valuable information for the majority of SQR developers whose exposure to SQR is via PeopleSoft.<br />There is something for everyone in this book - beginners can learn SQR the right way, and seasoned developers will have a ready reference that covers almost every facet of SQR in practical terms.  If your job is primarily SQR development I also recommend that you also get a copy of &quot;SQR Programmer Reference&quot; by Don Mellen (ISBN 0967773008) as a quick reference to the features and nuances of SQR.	2002-08-25
1430421:US	53037408	R2FC1FLIMLRCUC	1574443402	345374429	The Advanced Project Management Office: A Comprehensive Look at Function and Implementation	Books	5	14	17	N	N	About *project*, not *program* management offices	his book is about setting up a project management office, not a program management office.  Although to many the distinction is either subtle or moot, there are key differences.  A project management office is an organization that manages a single project and is usually disestablished after the project is complete.  A program management office is an organization that is either established to manage a portfolio of projects or a major contract that has a complex statement of work requiring a number of simultaneous projects.  A program management office can also be a permanent organizational function that provides continuous oversight of all projects from start to finish.<br />The forgoing distinctions do not diminish the value of this book, but merely set the expectations of potential readers.  In fact, this book contains a wealth of excellent advice about establishing and managing a project office.  It also goes deep into details regarding required skills, roles and responsibilities.  I especially liked the discussions on project performance management and maturity models.<br />Another point in this book's favor for project managers who want to establish a project management office the right way is other books about &quot;PMOs&quot; are more focused on program management, which is too broad in scope.<br />I like the way the author approaches the topic, which is structured and clearly described, and the way the book covers all of the major issues, factors and details.	2002-08-25
1430429:US	53037408	R283YLPLSDPEFU	0201761769	194610460	Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Engrossing, thorough and full of surprises	Although this book's primary purpose is to explain how to defend against web hacking, it's also one of the most thorough descriptions of how web servers, applications servers and database servers work.  Moreover, it's so well written and engrossing that it is hard to put down - I read it in a weekend.<br />My role regarding security is more process-oriented, although I have a fairly deep knowledge of the technical aspects. I, like many others, assumed that HTTP (port 80 services) poses nominal security exposures.  Before I was finished with the first chapter that erroneous belief had been completely destroyed. What make the magnitude of the risks and exposures of seemingly secure aspects of web systems behind a firewall so real is the way you're walked through how to breach backend systems via HTTP.  In addition, each language and scripting environment commonly used in web systems are examined for security implications. Seeing these was the second major surprise in the book.<br />As the book progresses the technical detail gets deeper, and the ways systems can be breached get more sophisticated.  Each of the exposures that the book highlights can be independently verified by following the procedures given on test systems (of someone else's system if you have a malicious bent).<br />Even if security isn't your major concern you'll greatly benefit from this book because the authors completely explain how web systems work at a deep technical level, and do clearly.  If you are involved in security you'll find exposures and risks in places you never suspected, such in intrusion detection systems, firewalls, and even comments in scripts and mark-up files.<br />This book can be read and understood by moderately technical readers, such as IT managers, and should be read by developers who want to harden their code, auditors and security assessment team members, and systems and network administrators who need to plug the holes left by product defaults or are targets for intruders.ntruders.	2002-08-25
1430675:US	53037408	RZ08C98TP7J4L	020172149X	382370818	The Design of Sites: Patterns, Principles, and Processes for Crafting a Customer-Centered Web Experience	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Finally! A design book for the rest of us	Nearly every book on user interface and site design I've read is aimed at the professional designer who understands the nuances of color, fonts and graphics elements, as well as aesthetics in general.  Many of the subtle points are lost on the non professional.<br />The book begins with a short chapter on the foundations of good design, which provides principles, dispels myths, and stays focused on customer-centric goals.  The heart of the book is Part II, which consists of 12 different design patterns based on real life examples.  It leads you through each example, showing you how a particular design or design concept works and why.  This is akin to the Rosetta Stone for the non-professional designer because the authors do not assume any talent of skills in design, and subtle points are highlighted and clearly explained.  Because of this approach I finally understood concepts that had eluded me in the past.  In addition to the clear explanations that distill design into patterns, the book is lavishly illustrated, using copious full color examples and a structured format that gives the background, frames the problem and provides a solution to each of the 12 design goals.<br />Material in the appendices is also invaluable, including advice on running usability evaluation, and associated plan outlines and forms.  For a development group this is an extra bonus that will make it easier to incorporate the principles in this book into a quality process that gives customer-focused usability the same weight as technical quality criteria.<br /><br />I'm so enthusiastic about this book that I've recommended to the company for which I work that a copy of this book be provided to each of our developers who are programming wizards, but who stumble when it comes to the user interface.	2002-08-24
1430734:US	53037408	R2P8ZRHJW15CP6	0966124855	655778952	Practical Project: Guidelines for Project Engineers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best fit to DoD contracting and product development	Project engineers working for DoD contracting firms comprise the ideal audience for this book, although the material is also well suited for project managers in any industry segment that engages in technical product development and capital projects.  This includes consulting and integration firms that provide systems development and integration services to commercial clients, or for large in-house projects.<br />What I like about the book, and what makes it valuable, is it starts at the point that occurs after before award.  This is a familiar region for those in the DoD contracting industry, but is usually not given much attention by many commercial firms. The value is the book shows how to do a high-level plan based on client requirements, negotiate details and present the proposed approach.<br />Next, the book shows how to manage activities after contract award - what must be done to refine proposed plans, how to obtain buy-in at the customer and internal levels, and how to properly initiate the project or engagement.  This is particularly important because at this point the true scope of the proposed project emerges as the planning becomes more refined, and the realities of the contract begin to emerge.<br />After setting the stage, the book drills down into the details of development, transition to production  and production and support.  The details encompass design, design reviews, how to manage problem resolution, configuration management (a particularly strong point of this book considering the author's previous published work and experience in this subject area), production and production support. Back to configuration management - the configuration management plan framework in Appendix E is a time saver for readers who have little experience with developing one.<br />An excellent section of the book, Part 3, covers the tools, which include administrative measures and techniques such as: managing meetings, processes, and project engineer templates (more fully described in Appendix B).  In addition, Part 5's list of common obstacles and how to overcome them is valuable.<br /><br />For product engineering and DoD contracting this book provides a wealth of insights and techniques.  For development and integration services in the commercial sector the approach this book gives represents best practices and can be readily adapted to those types of projects, although some tailoring is necessary in order to keep those types of projects agile and cost-competitive.lly described in Appendix B).  In addition, Part 5's list of common obstacles and how to overcome them is valuable.<BR>                                     <BR>For product engineering and DoD contracting this book provides a wealth of insights and techniques.  For development and integration services in the commercial sector the approach this book gives represents best practices and can be readily adapted to those types of projects, although some tailoring is necessary in order to keep those types of projects agile and cost-competitive.	2002-08-24
1430758:US	53037408	R3LSLP5LS1X76E	075968474X	132593484	Managing E-Business Projects	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Especially valuable to PMPs and orgs using PMBOK	Consulting/integration firms and internal IT organizations engaged in e-business projects will gain much from this book.  This is especially so if the Project Management Institute's PMBOK is used as a company standard, or if you're a PMP who wants to align the PMBOK to e-business project management because one of the authors,Wes Balakian, is Vice Chairman of Professional development for the PMI E-Business SIG.<br />The book consists of 12 chapters and appendices that cover the full spectrum of e-business project management.  The first three chapters are standard fare: Chapter 1 is a general discussion of e-business trends and future directions. The book goes into specifics in Chapter 2, which gives an overview of e-business project management, its unique challenges and pitfalls.  Chapter 3 addresses development life cycle models and helps you select the best one based on the size, scope and complexity of your project.<br />In Chapter 4 and forward is where this book distinguishes itself - Chapter 4's Defining e-Strategy addresses the unique concerns of this type of project, and provides excellent guidance for selecting business processes to be enabled and selecting an implementation model.  Chapters 5 gives a solid framework for planning the project, and includes a sample high-level plan, risk management factors, and vendor selection and management advice.  Chapter 6 covers the complex issues of team and stakeholder management, which can be overwhelming considering the number of stakeholders and the cross-functional nature of virtually all e-business projects.  This is closely linked to Chapter 7's focus on requirements, and feels the topics of chapters 8 (designing the solution) and 9 (building and implementing the solution).<br />Chapters 10 and 11 depart from most books on e-business project management by addressing the often overlooked (by project managers, anyway) issues of security and protecting consumer privacy.  The fact that these were included indicate the real world experience of the authors.  Chapter 12 covers all of the critical success factors associated with deployment, and again the authors go beyond most books by covering a post-production support strategy, training requirements, and other details that are left out of most project plans.<br />I especially liked the appendix, which provides example test scripts (forms/user interfaces, business processes, and reports), an example defect tracking form, and a security and integrity requirements checklist.  The glossary of terms is also helpful to project managers who may not be fully conversant with jargon used by technical and business stakeholders and team members.<br />Overall, this is a comprehensive book that experienced project managers (especially PMPs) will find invaluable for e-business projects.  It does not cover project management basics, so a certain level of knowledge and skills are assumed.the real world experience of the authors.  Chapter 12 covers all of the critical success factors associated with deployment, and again the authors go beyond most books by covering a post-production support strategy, training requirements, and other details that are left out of most project plans.<br />I especially liked the appendix, which provides example test scripts (forms/user interfaces, business processes, and reports), an example defect tracking form, and a security and integrity requirements checklist.  The glossary of terms is also helpful to project managers who may not be fully conversant with jargon used by technical and business stakeholders and team members.<br />Overall, this is a comprehensive book that experienced project managers (especially PMPs) will find invaluable for e-business projects.  It does not cover project management basics, so a certain level of knowledge and skills are assumed.	2002-08-24
1430834:US	53037408	R3HECLN7JT770Y	0201730464	364971595	Developing Distributed and E-Commerce Applications	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Realistic college text; useful to working professionals	This book was written as a college-level text.  It also targets IT professionals who need to quickly understand the differences between e-commerce applications and traditional information systems as a secondary audience.<br />As a college-level text this book is one of the few that will prepare students for the real world.  The scope of topics, level of detail, and carefully chosen case studies are impressive because they capture the key knowledge areas and issues that working professionals deal with.<br />As a refresher for working professionals who need to understand the big picture and intermediate details associated with e-commerce applications this book's wide coverage of topics makes it ideal.  While students will need to work through the entire book, an IT professional can choose the topic areas selectively.  For example, the chapter on E-commerce applications that covers supply chain management, e-tialing and auction sites will have more appeal to a working professional, while the chapters on programming will probably capture a student's interest.<br />Additional features that will be of interest to each audience include:<br />- Students and Instructors: (1) CD ROM that comes with the book contains exercises, source code, and additional study material, (2) a companion web site that provides 296 PowerPoint slides that augment the course, and (3) links to over 750 web sites that reinforce the lessons.<br />- Working professionals:  the CD ROM that comes with the book contains the full text of the book, which will allow searching for any topic or keyword.  This is an excellent research resource, that is all the more valuable since the book is up-to-date and covers current technologies (Java, relational databases, XML, etc.), as well as important business issues.	2002-08-24
1431020:US	53037408	R16K57M6UDF1I7	0812992016	372163966	CodeNotes for Oracle 9i	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amazingly effective for quickly learning Oracle 9i	If you already know Oracle 7x or 8x, you won't benefit as much from this book as you will from Oracle 9i New Features by Robert G. Freeman (ISBN 0072223855).  However, if you're coming from a SQL Server, Sybase or other RDBMS environment, or are a developer who needs to quickly learn Oracle this is an ideal book.<br />You'll need a basic understanding of both relational databases and programming to effectively use this book.  Although both topics are briefly covered, the book's pace is quick and it goes surprisingly deep into knowledge and skill factors needed to work with Oracle 9i.<br />Although this book is written for working professionals, it employs excellent learning techniques, such as exercises and self-tests.  It's tempting to bypass them and just plough through the information, but I recommend that you work through them because you'll come away with a much deeper understanding of Oracle 9i - and will do so in less than a weekend.<br />The range of topics covered is what makes this book special - in less than 200 pages the book provides practical and relatively detailed information on SQL*Plus and PL/SQL, how Oracle 9i works, and even goes into tuning.<br />This is the first book I've read in the CodeNote series, and if the rest of the books are as well written and presented as this one I'll turn to them first when I need to become quickly functional in a particular technology.	2002-08-24
1431562:US	53037408	R3ANY85NGMZIT9	0471223980	153931979	Managing the Testing Process: Practical Tools and Techniques for Managing Hardware and Software Testing	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A basic, but effective, approach to test management	The approach and techniques given in this book will get the new test manager and his or her team quickly started with basic techniques for managing testing.  The key strengths of this book include:<br />(1) Instructions for developing test plans, and associated test cases and reports - the material is fairly basic, but complete and consistent with good practices.<br />(2) An excellent discussion of, and advice for, effective management of a test team, setting priorities and managing budgets.<br />(3)  Practical advice for setting objectives and scope within the testing process.<br />While this book will give the in-the-trenches test professionals a view of the 'big picture', it's more suited to managers and QA leads who are seeking guidelines for establishing the foundation of a test process, and who want to quickly implement standards for test documentation and a workflow.  The book's accompanying web page provides over 50 templates, case studies and tools that can be downloaded and immediately used within your organization.  In addition, the website contains a small (but growing) collection of articles, presentations and links that augment the material in this book.<br />Although there are a handful of other books on test management that are equal to this one, each has strengths and weaknesses - but all provide sound advice and a structured approach to managing the test process.  This particular book's strengths include the downloadable documents that will save much time and effort, and the straightforward approach to basic test management.  If you are trying to get a basic test process in place you won't go wrong if you select this book.	2002-08-23
1432124:US	53037408	R28EEJT8KT2N9V	1587210347	492701455	Building Quality Into Software: A Guide to Manage Quality in Software Development and Use	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Holistic view of SW quality from the project perspective	This book captures the essence of SQA and shows how to not only integrate it into software development project management, but how to take a wide view by including the production and support milestone in the development life cycle.<br />For project managers the advice given on cost and risk management is invaluable.  More importantly, the book shows project managers how to effectively integrate quality metrics into the project plan to measure more than cost and schedule attainment.<br />Software quality practitioners will gain a project-oriented view of SQA, which encompasses not only quality metrics, but qualification and certification criteria for the software being delivered. This aspect of the book is also invaluable to the testing team, which has a different role than the SQA function.<br />Developers and development managers will gain an understanding of requirements traceability and, as importantly, security considerations, that need to be incorporated into the build phase of the life cycle.<br />Overall, this book is invaluable because it portrays the quality function as a team effort, and this theme is interwoven throughout the book.  The author does an excellent job of tying together the viewpoints of the disparate team functions in a development project into a single focus on attaining quality as a team objective.  I found the illustrations, tables and checklists especially valuable, and the holistic approach given in this book to be a refreshing change from similar books that focus on a much narrower view (i.e., development, architecture, QA, etc.).<br />I strongly recommend that this easy-to-read book be used as a key reference by all members of large project teams before initiating complex projects.  It will literally have everyone reading from the same page and will show all stakeholders how to bring about quality within their unique domains and as members of a much larger team.	2002-08-23
1436079:US	53037408	R2VNEOL7F82P3O	1880410737	567372935	The PMI Project Management Fact Book, Second Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Guidebook for PMI members and those considering membership	This is a general book on project management that frames project management as a practice and makes a case for the Project Management Institute's approach and its Project Management Professional certification.<br />Sections 1 and 2 frame project management by giving a brief history of the profession, defining project management as a practice, and discussing knowledge areas and providing statistics based on PMI's research of project costs, scope and challenges.<br />Specifics about the profession of project management are given in Section 3, including job descriptions, ethics, credentials and typical compensation.  This is followed by a discussion of the PM environment in Section 4, which covers organizational issues such as the ratio of project managers to the total number of employees, globalization of project management and certifications.  In this section the case is made for the PMP certification, which is valid in the US, but the conclusion made of the global acceptance of this certification, in my opinion, misses the point that PRINCE2 is more accepted in the UK and former Commonwealth countries. Section 5 is devoted to the Project Management Institute, its organizational structure, standards and standards making groups, membership benefits and its influence.<br />For PMI members, PMPs or those considering joining PMI and/or pursuing the PMP certification this is an excellent book because it describes the PM profession from PMI's point of view, gives a wealth of supporting statistics and facts, and provides insights into PMI.	2002-08-19
1436313:US	53037408	R3NH4RQ5HIMVU	1853125938	453135277	Implementing a Quality Management System	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Valuable to consultants and for SQA libraries	This CD ROM is an excellent collection of articles on interpreting quality standards as they relate to software development, developing an implementation plan, and implementing and managing the system.<br />What I like is collection of experiences and lessons learned from implementation in real companies, and the two chapters that show that even small organizations can establish quality management systems. I also like the common theme, which is the competitive advantage that accrues from having a quality management system in place.<br />Much of the material is over four years old, but with the exception of ISO 9000 this isn't a problem because the implementation and management portions are still valid. The lessons learned are equally valid because the ones described in the various articles are the ones that will crop up in any implementation.  This is a function of organizational change more than particulars of a particular quality management system approach.<br />The one article that I most liked described an industrial production approach to software and the parallels to manufacturing.  Since this book was written SEI's product-line software engineering approach seems to incorporate many of the ideas expressed by the article's authors.  I also found the article titled &quot;Making Software Measurement Work&quot; interesting and filled with advice on how to take this important element of a quality management system from theory to practice.<br />Having the material on CD ROM is, in my opinion, an added bonus because it can be searched and is much more convenient to take as reference material on consulting assignments where much of this material can prove invaluable as cited work in findings and recommendations deliverables.	2002-08-19
1436810:US	53037408	R15Y8OHE26QFHK	1853126101	506222067	Software Engineering Set: Implementing a Quality Management System & Software Process Assessment and Improvement	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Valuable consultant &amp; SQA library resource	This is a boxed set of two CD ROMs that are also sold separately: Software Process Assessment and Improvement (ISBN 1562523139) and Implementing a Quality Management System (ISBN 1853125938). Each CD ROM is described below:<br />Software Process Assessment and Improvement (ISBN 1562523139) contains nine articles that each deal with an aspect of software assessments or process improvements.  It's main value is to consultants who specialize in general process assessment and process improvement (i.e., are more interested in best practices than a specific approach such as CMM or SPICE), and organizational SQA groups that are developing an enterprise framework.<br />Articles I liked best are:  Chapter 3, which discusses assessment-oriented approaches and how they relate to various problem situations; and the software improvement model that is presented in Chapter 9.<br />In addition to 'nuts &amp; bolts' articles, this collection also contains case studies, and also gives a good comparison among SPICE, the CMM and Bootstrap.  This is ideal research material for the audience I cited above.<br />The material to be valid despite the age of the articles, most of which are over four years old.  For the right audience this CD ROM represents a good investment in knowledge tools, but those who are interested in specifics should seek the appropriate book on the particular topic, such as CMM, SPICE, etc.<br />Implementing a Quality Management System (ISBN 1853125938) Is an excellent collection of articles on interpreting quality standards as they relate to software development, developing an implementation plan, and implementing and managing the system.<br />What I like is collection of experiences and lessons learned from implementation in real companies, and the two chapters that show that even small organizations can establish quality management systems. I also like the common theme, which is the competitive advantage that accrues from having a quality management system in place.<br />Much of the material is over four years old, but with the exception of ISO 9000 this isn't a problem because the implementation and management portions are still valid. The lessons learned are equally valid because the ones described in the various articles are the ones that will crop up in any implementation.  This is a function of organizational change more than particulars of a particular quality management system approach.<br />The one article that I most liked described an industrial production approach to software and the parallels to manufacturing.  Since this book was written SEI's product-line software engineering approach seems to incorporate many of the ideas expressed by the article's authors.  I also found the article titled &quot;Making Software Measurement Work&quot; interesting and filled with advice on how to take this important element of a quality management system from theory to practice.<br />For both having the material on CD ROM is, in my opinion, an added bonus because it can be searched and is much more convenient to take as reference material on consulting assignments where much of this material can prove invaluable as cited work in findings and recommendations deliverables.e.<br />Much of the material is over four years old, but with the exception of ISO 9000 this isn't a problem because the implementation and management portions are still valid. The lessons learned are equally valid because the ones described in the various articles are the ones that will crop up in any implementation.  This is a function of organizational change more than particulars of a particular quality management system approach.<br />The one article that I most liked described an industrial production approach to software and the parallels to manufacturing.  Since this book was written SEI's product-line software engineering approach seems to incorporate many of the ideas expressed by the article's authors.  I also found the article titled &quot;Making Software Measurement Work&quot; interesting and filled with advice on how to take this important element of a quality management system from theory to practice.<br />For both having the material on CD ROM is, in my opinion, an added bonus because it can be searched and is much more convenient to take as reference material on consulting assignments where much of this material can prove invaluable as cited work in findings and recommendations deliverables.	2002-08-19
1436832:US	53037408	R1HHV1J8TQ5TH7	1562523139	103259917	001: Software Process Assessment and Improvement (Software Quality Management, Vol 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly valuable to a specific audience	This CD ROM contains nine articles that each deal with an aspect of software assessments or process improvements.  It's main value is to consultants who specialize in general process assessment and process improvement (i.e., are more interested in best practices than a specific approach such as CMM or SPICE), and organizational SQA groups that are developing an enterprise framework.<br />Articles I liked best are:  Chapter 3, which discusses assessment-oriented approaches and how they relate to various problem situations; and the software improvement model that is presented in Chapter 9.<br />In addition to 'nuts &amp; bolts' articles, this collection also contains case studies, and also gives a good comparison among SPICE, the CMM and Bootstrap.  This is ideal research material for the audience I cited above.<br />I like the convenience of having this material on CD ROM, and found the material to be valid despite the age of the articles, most of which are over four years old.  For the right audience this CD ROM represents a good investment in knowledge tools, but those who are interested in specifics should seek the appropriate book on the particular topic, such as CMM, SPICE, etc.	2002-08-19
1436930:US	53037408	R3K6VSPQ1B4UXY	1567261442	319032128	Project Estimating and Cost Management (Project Management Essential Library)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	One of the top books on project estimating I've read	At 136 pages this book covers a wide array of important topics and techniques in depth. The main value of the approach the author provides is that it's both effective and consistent with best practices in project estimating.<br />In particular, the deliverables-based work breakdown structure approach that forms the foundation of the estimating process is one that I've been using for over a decade, and is the only sane basis, in my opinion, for establishing estimating relationships between what the project is supposed to produce, and what it takes to produce it.<br />I'm continually surprised by the large number of project managers, including PMPs, who don't use deliverables-based WBS.  I'm not surprised, however, by the wide disparity between estimates and actuals when this method is not used.  For this reason alone the book is invaluable, but there is even more that makes this book essential to any project manager.  For example, the resource breakdown structure approach (also known as the organizational breakdown structure), and how it relates to the WBS is not only essential to accurate project planning and estimating, but is also an integral part of earned value project management (now a part of the PMI PMBOK).  I especially liked the chapter on estimating models, which will provide project managers with proven tools and techniques, and the chapter on external projects.<br />Overall, this book should be on the desk of every project manager during the planning and estimating phase, and carefully followed.  I also recommend using this book with Earned Value Project Management, 2nd Edition by Quentin W. Fleming and Joel M. Koppelman.	2002-08-19
1437007:US	53037408	R2J4PHAKEOKVNL	0130168890	97461483	Managing PeopleSoft with Tivoli	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Out of date, but still useful; Excellent Bea Tuxedo Material	Although PeopleSoft 8 differs in significant ways from version 7 that is addressed in this book, the material is still invaluable.  In particular, the authors impart a deep knowledge of PeopleSoft, Tivoli and Tuxedo. In fact, I gained more tips about Tuxedo (an integral part of both PeopleSoft 7x and 8x) from this book than from a pile of resource material from Bea and PeopleSoft.  I also gained a deeper understanding of Tivoli and how it can be used to effectively monitor PeopleSoft or any other distributed application.  Note that the Tivoli material in this book is also out of date, but a surprisingly large amount is still useful.<br />You're walked through the actual configuration and installation of Tivoli, which is well done with screenshots and brief, but descriptive explanations.  In addition, there is a CD ROM that ships with this book, which contains UNIX shell scripts, most of which are for monitoring Tuxedo.<br />I gave this book 4 stars because it is out of date with respect to PeopleSoft and Tivoli - however, I didn't give it less (which I normally do for such books) because there is still much that you can learn from it and apply to PeopleSoft 8 with a little research and careful planning.	2002-08-19
1440154:US	53037408	R1FCELXWQV1F8P	0750645032	412617376	Stop IT Project Failures (Computer Weekly Professional Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books about IT project risk management	The theme of this book is risk management as it relates to IT projects, and the focus is on IT development projects in particular.  Most of the material at the beginning of the book is standard fare, with an overview of IT risk management, and a discussion of common risks associated with development projects.  However, after the basics are presented the author's extensive knowledge and perspective surfaces, making this one of the better books on the subject.<br />Highlights of the book include in-depth material about financial analysis of risks and major risk drivers, an interesting (and valid) discussion of relationships and ripple effects showing how the manifestation of one risk can cascade into a disaster if risk mitigation and controls are absent from project plans.<br />Additionally this book shows how to establish and manage a risk program, and provides a case study to reinforce the approach and recommendations presented in the book.  Among the aspects of this book I most like are the copious use of tables and checklists, and the focus on business issues. These characterize all of the author's books, most of which I've read, and like those books this one stands out as complete and well thought out on the subject.	2002-08-15
1440261:US	53037408	R246YA2DNPD5E8	0201734095	113476349	Architecture-Centric Software Project Management: A Practical Guide	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Lynchpin of SEI's architecture and product-line material	The ideal audience of this book includes anyone who works within, or who follows, SEI's (Software Engineering Institute's) extensive body of work on architecture and/or product line engineering, or who needs to develop a project management framework for software development.  While the approach in this book is more suited for product-oriented development, it can also be used for major internal projects.<br />As the title implies, the focus on the project management framework is the architecture, and the key elements of the approach are planning, organizing, implementing and measuring.  The latter element lends itself to continuous refinement and fits nicely into CMM level 4 and 5 organization, which is not surprising since the CMM is embedded in practically every guide produced by SEI.<br />What makes this book special, though, is the clearly defined approach that is systematically presented using case studies and frequent diagrams to orient you as you go through the book.  More importantly, the author communicates a vision and shows how to put it into practice.<br />I like the approach because it lends itself to realistic project planning and estimation.  By taking an architecture-centric approach it's easy to develop a complete work breakdown structure early in the planning phase, which provides a foundation for detailed estimating.  I also like the way the approach separates, then integrates, team organization, requirements and strategy, risk management and release planning.<br />This is not another project management methodology, but instead, shows how to use architecture as the focal point of the project and use whatever specific PM methodology suits your organization to effectively define project deliverables and the final product.  It's complete, realistic and will work in practice.	2002-08-15
1440711:US	53037408	R8J0K1LY8D3O3	0750639512	871335362	IT in Business: A Business Manager's Casebook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well researched, written and presented case studies	This book is a compilation of essays and case studies written by graduate students from three UK business schools.  It's divided into four parts and comprises eighteen papers, each of which provides surprisingly mature insights into the topic being discussed given the relative experience level of the authors.<br />The major themes into which the papers are divided are:  (1)Competition and Business Impact (consists of six case studies of commercial and government organizations), (2) Information Systems Planning (four papers), (3) Managing the IS Resource (four papers), and (4) Communications and Information (four papers).<br />While I carefully read each of the papers and thought the entire collection to be well researched and presented, my favorites are Part I, Chapter 6 &quot;Technology opportunities for the music industry&quot; (bear in mind that this particular paper was written from a British perspective and predates the issues that have arisen from the US DMCA), Part II, Chapter 10 &quot;IT Based-business process redesign: theoretical foundations, examples and critical assessment&quot; (the subject matter reflects my personal and professional interests and this particular paper is consistent with my own experiences and approach), Part III, Chapter 13 &quot;Ensuring the disaster recovery planning process delivers business continuity - the experience of a major UK retail bank&quot; (excellent material from a real case that exposes the scope and complexity of DR and BCP for organizations that require high availability), and Part IV, Chapter 16 &quot;Appraising investment in IS infrastructure&quot; (business-oriented and should be read by IT infrastructure managers).<br />If you're involved in an IT strategic planning initiative that is attempting to align IT to bushiness this book contains case studies and essays that will generate ideas as well as expose challenges.  If you are a service delivery practitioner the material will give insights into business issues that need to be taken into account when developing a service level management approach.that need to be taken into account when developing a service level management approach.	2002-08-15
1443104:US	53037408	R2U4JMA31OFSXY	0130084689	629099477	Just Enough Software Test Automation	Books	5	33	35	N	N	For practitioners, not managers ... gore some sacred cows	This book is written for the in-the-trenches testing practitioner.  Before describing the book and its strengths, I need to state that the authors' views of certain aspects of software engineering dramatically differ from kine.  Specifically, they express some disdain for applying a life cycle approach to testing in general and test automation in particular, and also don't seem to see the value of maturity frameworks, such as the CMM.  On the other hand, they are forthright about their focus on the practitioner, and are strong proponents of process.  My views differ from theirs in that I see the value of bounding processes within a life cycle flow, and also see the value in measuring capability.  While my perspective may not be meaningful to the practitioner who is actually doing the testing, it does take into account the realities of managing an IT organization.<br />Regardless of my opinions and views, the authors have put together a powerful, sensible approach to test automation.  Key strengths include:<br />- Pragmatism, including compelling counter arguments to my own views (especially in the first two chapters titled &quot;What Is Just Enough Test Automation?&quot; and &quot;Knowing When and What to Automate&quot;.  I particularly liked the distinctions between processes, and life cycles and tools.<br />- Going straight to the critical success factors, such as requirements as the entire basis for test planning, and ensuring traceability throughout the development life cycle. In addition, the frank discussion of limitations of some testing tools, and the associated high maintenance associated with scripts, is illuminating.  I also liked the way that the book shows what can be automated, and, more importantly, what cannot (or should not) be.  It also reemphasizes the importance of developing a test strategy and test plans, and how automation tools fall short in some areas. An invaluable part of this aspect of the book is the discussion of test scripting languages and their strengths and weaknesses.<br />- Examples based on real tools, with an emphasis on Rational's TestStudio.  Mercury Interactive's WinRunner is also used to illustrate key concepts of the Test Plan Driven framework that is discussed later in the book.<br />- Material that hands-on practitioners can use. While I have a high regard for the Automated Test Lifecycle Methodology that is proposed in an excellent book titled &quot;Automated Software Testing&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka, John Paul, that book is more for implementing and managing automated testing within the context of a life cycle, and isn't a topic to which the audience of this book will relate.  Indeed, the real strength of this book is the fact that no other book on automated testing talks to the practitioners.  In addition, the material covers unit, integration, and regression testing from the practitioner's point of view.<br />- Advanced topics including data-driven approaches to testing that ties into automated suites, hybrid approaches that combine manual and automated elements, and how to develop test plans and associated artifacts.<br />Despite my disagreement with some of what the authors views, I have to give this book my highest endorsement because, in my opinion, it's well thought out, provides one of the most thorough discussions of test automation at the practitioner level I've encountered, and is technically flawless.ages and their strengths and weaknesses.  <br />- Examples based on real tools, with an emphasis on Rational's TestStudio.  Mercury Interactive's WinRunner is also used to illustrate key concepts of the Test Plan Driven framework that is discussed later in the book.<br />- Material that hands-on practitioners can use. While I have a high regard for the Automated Test Lifecycle Methodology that is proposed in an excellent book titled &quot;Automated Software Testing&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka, John Paul, that book is more for implementing and managing automated testing within the context of a life cycle, and isn't a topic to which the audience of this book will relate.  Indeed, the real strength of this book is the fact that no other book on automated testing talks to the practitioners.  In addition, the material covers unit, integration, and regression testing from the practitioner's point of view.<br />- Advanced topics including data-driven approaches to testing that ties into automated suites, hybrid approaches that combine manual and automated elements, and how to develop test plans and associated artifacts.<br />Despite my disagreement with some of what the authors views, I have to give this book my highest endorsement because, in my opinion, it's well thought out, provides one of the most thorough discussions of test automation at the practitioner level I've encountered, and is technically flawless.	2002-08-13
1444622:US	53037408	R1URY08OOY3YM9	0741411911	484895647	IT Management - 101	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Covers a topic about which few books exist - excellent!	This book is one of a series of books that Mr. Sisco publishes under the title &quot;IT Manager Development Series&quot; and the associated set of tools called &quot;IT Manager Toolkit&quot;.  This book, however, is the only one in the series that is available in paper format (the rest of the books in the series are in PDF format, and the toolkit artifacts are in Excel and Word formats).<br />The entire series is designed to provide IT managers of all levels of experience and scope of responsibility a consistent approach to managing IT based on the author's extensive background and experience.  This book in particular is the foundation of the entire series and gives the new IT manager a compass for professional performance and career growth.<br />Each of the topic areas is a building block for IT managers, and combined, this book shows how to lead and manage using team building and delivering business support as the focal points.  Each chapter contains insets that impart advice from the author's personal experience, which reinforces each topic, and also has checklists, questionnaires and illustrations that make the book readable and useful.  What I like is you can immediately begin using the information in each chapter, which allows you to systematically improve your workgroup in small, easy-to-implement doses.  More importantly, if you follow this book's advice you'll also start employing refined leadership skills in addition to effective management.<br />I hope the rest of the books in the &quot;IT Manager Development Series&quot; will become available in paper versions, and I also hope that applicable parts of the associated &quot;IT Manager Toolkit&quot; get included with them on a CD ROM.  Until then, this book will get the new manager started, and will also give seasoned IT managers ideas and invaluable checklists. When/if the other books in the series become available I recommend adding them to your library because they use this book as the core and foundation to provide a coherent view of IT management across any enterprise.n to provide a coherent view of IT management across any enterprise.	2002-08-11
1444822:US	53037408	R3KJ1HHRZC3H2L	0133490025	867957224	Measuring The Software Process: A Practical Guide to Functional Measurements	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent introductory book on FP	This book was written almost five years to the day before the authors' later \\"Function Point Analysis: Measurement Practices for Successful Software Projects\\". It provides the foundation for the later book with a significant amount of overlap, but with some key differences as well.<br /><br />The theme of both books is function point analysis as a software estimating technique. The focus of this book, however, is FP counting and analysis techniques with an emphasis on software engineering as a coherent process. The material is more geared towards introducing FP and making a business and technical case for using this technique. In my experience FP is most effective when used to estimate the scale of a software development project, while the traditional lines of source code metric is better suited to estimating size. Each has a place in an integrated approach to estimation, but this book is solely focused on FP.<br /><br />If you want a higher level view of FP because you're exploring it as an estimating technique this book is ideal. It covers the reasons for, and philosophy behind, FP, and also goes into considerable detail. However, if you have standardized on FP as an estimating technique I think the later book, \\"Function Point Analysis: Measurement Practices for Successful Software Projects\\", will better meet your needs because it goes into much deeper detail and can serve as a desk reference. Both books have a place in the body of knowledge for software metrics and estimating, and both will be valid for years to come.	2002-08-11
1445096:US	53037408	R1ZDEBY7KKMSH0	047193979X	852586511	Practical Risk Assessment for Project Management	Books	4	10	11	N	N	If you use @Risk and need to learn RA basics ...	The ideal audience for this book is relatively narrow, consisting of readers who meet the following two criteria:  (1) new to risk management techniques, and (2) using Palisade @Risk.  In fact, this book comes close to being a tutorial on using @Risk, which is a popular commercial product that works within Microsoft Excel and  project management programs.<br />If you are new to advanced techniques in project risk management you'll like the way the author succinctly covers all of the key elements of project risk assessment, project finance forecasting, and simulation and modeling.  Considering the complexity of the subject area, and the fact that both probability and simulation techniques are covered, the author does a remarkable job of conveying the wide range of topics in a scant 134 pages. I especially liked the generous use of graphs and examples, and the way each topic was broken down into easy-to-grasp facts and steps.<br />However, even without @Risk you can learn much about risk assessment from this book, including a refresher on probability distributions, how to perform an assessment using manual techniques, and modeling and simulation with an emphasis on Monte Carlo simulation.<br />The only problem I have with this book is that it's out of date with respect to @Risk, which has evolved into a much more capable tool since this book was first published 7 years ago.  Since one of the this book's strengths is the way it teaches how to apply @Risk to real world project risk assessment, the fact that it's out of date with respect to the software version diminishes its value.	2002-08-11
1445166:US	53037408	R1PJZ3T6ZVT0QO	0073406724	672473315	Communication Works	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent College Text & Useful for Working Professionals	Although this book is written as a college text that introduces communications as a discipline I found it to be a treasure trove of information and techniques for working professionals at all experience levels.  Setting aside what makes this book an invaluable course text for a moment, here are some of the reasons why I feel working professionals will benefit from what it offers:<br /><br />(1) The focus is not only on communications, but on cross-cultural communications and diversity.  For me this aspect is especially valuable because I am currently working for a company based out of India and am managing project teams who are in India. I am working out of the New England area, and my principle contact with my team is via e-mail and workflow tools.  In addition to the guidance about cross-cultural communications, the book also covers contemporary topics, such as using the Internet as a communications medium.<br /><br />(2) Ethics as a theme is interwoven into the chapters, with specific chapters that address it in the context of different settings.  I like the way the book ties ethics and ethnics together because of the different interpretations depending on culture (although all cultures share core ethics).<br /><br />(3) Practical guidelines for using common tools such as PowerPoint, Internet search resources, and multimedia. Indeed, the CD ROM that comes with this text epitomizes how to effectively blend technology with communications (more about the CD ROM below).<br /><br />(4) Excellent advice on interviewing (from both sides of the desk), giving presentations, drafting business correspondence and similar tasks.  In every case the book gives practical advice that is delivered in fresh prose.  This alone sets it apart from most text books.<br /><br />As a learning resource the book has an accompanying web site, available supplements for instructors, and the CD ROM that comes with it.  The CD ROM is interesting because it contains video clips that reinforce the lessons from chapters, has self quizzes and primers for improving study skills, using the Internet and developing PowerPoint presentations - and many more documents and material that is directly related to the book.<br /><br />Regardless of whether you're seeking a book upon which to base a course in communications, or you're seeking a self-study book to improve your skills, this book is an ideal resource.lessons from chapters, has self quizzes and primers for improving study skills, using the Internet and developing PowerPoint presentations - and many more documents and material that is directly related to the book.<br /><br />Regardless of whether you're seeking a book upon which to base a course in communications, or you're seeking a self-study book to improve your skills, this book is an ideal resource.	2002-08-11
1445329:US	53037408	R22KAKBNEQ6Z1F	0273649434	570858604	Taking Control of It Costs: A Business Managers Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Refreshingly practical and achievable approach	This is a no-nonsense, straightforward approach to establishing and keeping control of IT costs.  The author shows IT managers how to employ proven cost management techniques that operational lines of business use to understand IT costs and to make sound business decisions with respect to managing IT budgets and expenditures.<br />The first step is to analyze cost management, and the book provides a three-step healthcheck to help you to get a handle on this aspect.  Second, you are shown how to trace cost allocations in a manner that borrows heavily from activity-based cost management techniques.  The next step in the book's approach is to develop a strategy and supporting tactics for achieving efficiency.  Then chapter on key performance indicators and benchmarking shows you what you should be measuring and how to compare your cost management posture with industry norms for your industry segment. This chapter also gives caveats about benchmarking to which you should pay close attention if you are new to benchmarking or frameworks because it's easy to lose sight of the objectives (cost management) when you're exploring this aspect of management. The book concludes with chapter that goes deeper into strategic planning, and two invaluable appendices on accounting techniques and typical cost structures.<br />What I particularly like about this book is there is no theory, silver bullets or preaching.  It gives an approach that is not only achievable, but is consistent with standard practices in cost management in and out of thr IT domain.	2002-08-11
1449022:US	53037408	R3RZ4DJBXDT4HG	0201756056	16728532	Secure XML: The New Syntax for Signatures and Encryption	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Seamless coverage of two technical domains	This book is actually two books - a thorough technical discussion of XML, SOAP and related technologies, and a detailed description of security infrastructures based on cryptography, digital signatures and encryption.  As such it's best suited for two audiences: (1) enterprise security experts who understand the security infrastructure, but who lack a working knowledge of XML (or web services as a whole), and developers and architects who may be thoroughly familiar with XML, but who need to understand security as it applies to XML and related protocols and services.  Neither audience may be completely satisfied with the book because half of the material will be too basic.  However, it does draw together two groups - security and development - that need to work closely together.<br />What I like about the book is the clear writing and copious use of illustrations.  In fact, the illustrations are a highlight because they help to convey complex topics that would have taken many more pages to explain with text alone (as well as put one to sleep).  More importantly, the information is technically accurate, especially with respect to the security-related chapters.  It's apparent that the authors know both XML and security exceptionally well.<br />I also like the comprehensive coverage of both XML (and related technologies) and security, and how the authors take each in insolation, then tie them together into a coherent explanation of how to achieve XML security.  This is no small feat, and is also why much of the material in the book may seem too basic or redundant to some readers.<br />In addition to clear, accurate information the authors are not reticent about expressing views that run counter to mainstream wisdom, which is refreshing and, at times, amusing.  Moreover, they do not hesitate to point out weaknesses in any of the technologies discussed in the book.<br />In my opinion this is an important book that is wide in scope, yet manages to seamlessly cover technical issues that are of interest to two widely different groups (security practitioners and architects/developers).l issues that are of interest to two widely different groups (security practitioners and architects/developers).	2002-08-07
1449582:US	53037408	R3ZTP6N2E2JCB	1571250093	121160159	How to Establish and Maintain Service Level Agreements	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Narrow focus, brief and effective for its stated purpose	Note that this book only addresses SLAs at the help desk level.  At less than 40 pages this pamphlet is focused on a narrow topic, but provides sufficient information to get you started on developing and implementing SLAs for help desk operations.<br />While the brevity of the book may give the impression that it's sketchy or too high level, it does a remarkable job of walking you through the what's, why's and how's of service level agreements and how they can form the foundation of improved operational efficiency and end user satisfaction. More importantly, the book steps you through the entire process of developing the SLA, negotiating objectives and implementing and managing to it.<br />With respect to the service level objectives that comprise the SLA I strongly recommend that you read &quot;Using Service Goals and Metrics to Improve Help Desk Performance&quot; by Mark W. Ellis (another pamphlet-sized resource) in conjunction with this book.  Combined, you'll be able to understand SLAs and the significant metrics associated with help desk operations, which is the first step in the process of developing a more unified service delivery posture.  Another book I recommend after you've established SLAs at the help desk level is &quot;IT Problem Management&quot; by Gary S. Walker.  That book takes service delivery to the enterprise level.	2002-08-07
1449685:US	53037408	R3KKJ7NACHG4OF	0471210129	621087128	Integrating Service Level Agreements: Optimizing Your OSS for SLA Delivery	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Exceptionally well thought out and written	This book is among the most coherent and on target approaches to integrated service level management I've read.  The most appropriate audience includes IT and switch engineering professionals in the wireless, LEC and CLEC industries, although those working for ISPs, manager service providers and ASPs will find the material closely aligned to their environments as well.<br />For the primary audience this book shows how to look beyond managing service levels and QoS at the infrastructure level.  It looks at the much larger business picture with a focus on external customers.  It does cover infrastructure, using TMN as the model, but the thrust is coordination of all customer-facing or service providing groups to provide a unified service delivery strategy.<br /> I like the way the book starts by defining SLAs and showing how they are the foundation of service delivery.  The models provided in Part I of the book were especially valuable. Part II ties together the preceding material to present an integrated model, which addresses both workflow and organizational factors.  More importantly, this part of the book covers performance metrics (service level objectives), reporting and notification.<br />The approach and material in this book can be readily adapted to traditional IT service level management, and in particular the way the authors lead you through writing the SLAs and managing to them.  What is missing in the book is a bigger view of how SLAs fit within a problem management framework, but this isn't an oversight given the scope of the book.  For anyone who is interested in filling in this critical piece I recommend reading IT Problem Management by Gary S. Walker. Although that book is focused on IT, the approach will fit within the OSS environment, and the service level related information in that book is consistent with this one.	2002-08-07
1449762:US	53037408	RLE7OK7F5CFS5	0735710295	944068526	HTML & Web Artistry 2: More than Code	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique blend of art and technical topics	If you are designing (or want to begin designing) dynamic, media rich web pages using DHTML, Dreamweaver or Macromedia Flash this book will give you technical tips and a plethora of design ideas.<br />Be aware that the material is focused on aesthetics, usability and effective use of multimedia more than on the technical aspects.  For the accomplished designer and coder this book will provide enough examples of well thought out design from which you can create sites with your own spin. The less technical reader may be frustrated by the emphasis on design instead of detailed instructions on how to develop and implement the ideas and examples in the book.  However, even for that audience this book offers valuable information.  Specifically, it's easier to learn how to code and perform technical tricks than it is to make a usable web site that uses advanced tools to their best advantage.<br />What I like about the book is the blend of art and technology in the subject matter.  For example, the chapters on color and type opened my eyes to just how significant these can be (I am a more technical reader).  I also learned much about user interface design and navigation, even though I've always paid attention to these for the web sites that I've developed.<br />Overall, for accomplished technical users this book will give insights into the interface design aspects of web sites, and for the accomplished designers it will provide useful technical information about Flash, Dreamweaver and popular multimedia formats.  It will not, however, teach web development in the technical sense, and may overwhelm beginners who are more concerned with learning the basics.	2002-08-07
1450282:US	53037408	R6HOZ73A10X4Q	1884180140	364852226	Six Sigma Instructor Guide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Well designed course material - full coverage of key topics	This instructor's guide is equally focused on quality improvement in a general sense as well as on 6-Sigma techniques.<br />It starts off with a module on course planning that lays out the curriculum and objectives. It then introduces 6-Sigma, followed by modules for improvement planning, problem solving, process management and common tools.  Each module is, in my opinion, excellent. For example, improvement planning introduces quality function deployment (QFD) as a primary tool/technique.  Problem solving gives a structured 5-step process that can be effectively used by anyone, regardless of their job or role, and the module on process management is where the 6-Sigma tools and techniques are introduced, along with design of experiments (Taguchi Technique), and an implementation plan.  QFD is also more thoroughly covered in this module.<br />The final module covers most of the common TQM tools and techniques, which round out the knowledge and skill areas required by anyone responsible for supporting 6-Sigma at the worker through line manager levels.<br />Overall, this is a well written book that gives instructors a clearly defined outline for a syllabus and learning objectives.	2002-08-06
1450426:US	53037408	R3DKY3JKS7L957	0471400106	39983629	Enterprise Integration: An Architecture for Enterprise Application and Systems Integration	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Intermediate-level in detail, up-to-date	This book has found a place alongside one of my other favorites: &quot;B2B Application Integration&quot; by David S. Linthicum.  Like Linthicum's book this one covers a wide range of EAI topics at a high level.  However, this book is more up to date and drills down deeper in many topic areas, including more depth in implementation and deployment issues.<br />I especially liked the chapters on messaging Infrastructures, workflow management and component technologies.  One note about the book's approach to components:  it does not go deeply into component-based software engineering, but instead covers components from a request broker perspective.  Moreover, a large part of the components discussion revolved around CORBA, which is a good conceptual approach but has yet to be widely embraced. The chapters titled &quot;Ensuring Enterprise System Security&quot; and &quot;Supporting Enterprise Intelligence&quot; are also valuable because they reflect contemporary concerns and issues.<br />The chapter on XML is a bit weaker than the corresponding discussion in &quot;B2B Application Integration&quot; by David S. Linthicum. Linthicum provides a more balance view in his book, especially regarding when not to use XML.<br />One additional feature that I like about this book is the accompanying web site. The links to specifications, organizations and related material point to a comprehensive collection of resources that not only augment the book, but are invaluable in their own right.<br />If you're looking for low-level details you will probably not like this book; however, if you want an intermediate-level, panoramic view of EAI this book is an excellent resource.	2002-08-06
1450590:US	53037408	R1AVMAEUZ3V0U5	0070653437	414518870	The Six Sigma Basic Training Kit: Implementing Juran's 6-Step Quality Improvement Process And Six Sigma Tools	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Perfect for developing in-house training of non-technical students	There are some caveats. The tools are not what one would consider core 6-Sigma tools (i.e., no control charts), however this book is still a worthwhile training kit. Its main value is to provide a firm grounding in the basics for non-technical members of an organization that is implementing 6-Sigma. When used for that purpose the book gives the trainer or facilitator a clearly laid out syllabus for teaching what 6-Sigma means and why it's important to organizations from quality and competitive advantage perspectives.<br /><br />In addition to providing a roadmap for teaching the what's and why's, the syllabus also covers a number of concepts and tools that will prove useful to anyone from admin assistant to line manager, including a good understanding of quality, cause analysis, powerful, but simple, tools (cause and effect, flow and Pareto diagrams and charts).<br /><br />For the professional trainer or facilitator the book epitomizes what excellent training documentation should look like. The layout makes good use of white space, the writing is clear, and the use of tables and graphics enhance learning.<br /><br />If you are a trainer or facilitator this book will dramatically shorten course design and provide you with solid training materials. It is not suited for advanced training in 6-Sigma techniques, however, but for the target audience I cited above it's perfect.	2002-08-06
1450638:US	53037408	R120SV0EPZJOIM	0738115606	576378628	2: Process Standards (IEEE Software Engineering Standards Collection)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Invaluable to a narrow audience	This book is useful to two audiences:  (1) candidates for the Certified Software Development Professional (CSDP) examination, and (2) anyone who works within or needs to conform to the IEEE/EIA Standard 12207 Standard for IT Software Life Cycle Processes.<br />The structure and format is nine chapters that consist of papers written by experts in their respective fields, and five appendices.<br />Topic areas covered in the nine chapters are:  (1) Software Engineering Supporting Processes (clearly describes 12207), (2) Software Configuration Management and Problem Resolution Processes (two papers on SCM, but no coverage of problem resolution - the paper titled \\"Software Configuration Management Plans\\" is based on IEEE Std. 828-1998), (3)Software Verification and Validation Processes (two papers, the paper titled \\"Software Verification and Validation\\" is based on IEEE Std 1012-1998), (4) Software Quality Assurance Process (two papers, the one titled \\"Software Quality Assurance Plans\\" is based on IEEE Std. 730-2001), (5) Software Reviews and Audits Processes (three papers, with \\"Software Reviews\\" based on IEEE Std 1028-1997), (6) Software Documentation Process (two papers, \\"Software User Documentation\\" is based on IEEE Std 1063-2001), (7) Management Process (this is one of the strongest chapters with five papers covering project management, cost estimating and risk management), (8) Infrastructure Process (five papers of varying quality - \\"A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement\\" by Barry W. Boehm and \\"Alternative Software Life Cycle Models\\" by Edward R. Comer are particularly interesting), and (9) Improvement and Training Processes (four papers ranging from CMM to Planning an Effective Training Program - this chapter was the least useful in my opinion because the CMM has changed, and the P-CMM is much more specific for training requirements).<br />Appendices A and B are standard IEEE fare pointing to glossaries and standards, but C through F specifically address topics of interest to CSDP exam candidates, including how to prepare for the examination and recommended reading.<br />For the target audience, especially CSDP candidates, this book is an essential resource.  For working professionals who do not work with IEEE standards the material in this book is interesting, but not compelling.address topics of interest to CSDP exam candidates, including how to prepare for the examination and recommended reading.<br />For the target audience, especially CSDP candidates, this book is an essential resource.  For working professionals who do not work with IEEE standards the material in this book is interesting, but not compelling.	2002-08-06
1450695:US	53037408	R3LMLJ2F54F4MJ	1884180132	721952655	Six Sigma Simplified, 3rd ed - Breakthrough Improvement Made Easy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Greatly exceeded my expectations	The author skillfully manages to make learning relatively advanced statistics easy through stories, examples and anecdotes.  Where the skills comes in is the wide range of complex topics that are introduced and clearly explained.  To a highly technical reader this may come across as either condescending.  However, the fact is that all of the important details and techniques are covered in great detail, and are wrapped in friendly prose. This ensures that hard-to-learn concepts need not be hard to learn, nor the learning process intimidating.<br />What I like is the systematic coverage of key concepts and knowledge areas, each of which builds upon the preceding topic.  The book starts with compelling business reasons for embarking on a 6-Sigma initiative, and what 6-Sigma entails.  It them introduces an approach for reducing cycle time and improving quality in a 2- and 4-step process.  After establishing that framework, the book shows how to sustain the improvements using key indicators for process stability and capability, and how to effectively employ statistical process controls to proactively track them.<br />The foregoing alone would make this an excellent introductory book on 5-Sigma, but the author goes on to tackle advanced topics such as design of experiments, quality function deployment and benchmarking.  These are certainly integral components of a complete 6-Sigma initiative, but I didn't expect to find them covered in an introductory book.  I also liked the complete coverage of basic TQM tools and techniques at the end of the book.<br />If you need to either learn the fundamentals of 6-Sigma or train a non-technical workforce this is an ideal book.  If you are going to teach or facilitate a 6-Sigma workshop you'll also want the author's &quot;Six Sigma Instructor Guide&quot; (ISBN 1884180140), which provides a syllabus and learning objectives that use this book as the student text.	2002-08-06
1450711:US	53037408	R1BU7HISGNT8P7	0028640705	886753451	One-to-One for Sales Professionals: Scripts for Achieving Success in the Marketplace	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Realistic, Complete and Well Written	Although I am a technical consultant who spends most of my time in billable consulting roles, one of my collateral duties is mentoring our multi-national company's US sales force and providing supporting materials.  Until I read this book I was burning the candle at both ends - by day consulting, and by night developing cold calling scripts and dispensing advice on how to get into accounts.  Thanks to this book I now have my nights free because this book is a ready reference for our sales force (all of whom were technical consultants who found themselves in the uncharted and uncertain territory of sales).<br />What makes this book so special is that it covers all key elements of sales, from cold calling to closing and follow-up.  In particular, the scripted approach to making calls, and the process and procedures that encompass how to overcome objections, probe and listen, reenergize stalls and close and follow-up are critical success factors to any sales cycle.  I especially liked the script outlines, which helped our sales team overcome major sources of anxiety, as well as provide a straightforward approach to making the first contact and further penetrating target accounts.<br />If you are in sales, regardless of your experience, you'll find something of value in this outstanding book.  If you're new to sales this book can serve as your compass and skill building resource.  If you're a sales manager, this book will get your new sales professionals quickly up-to-speed with proven techniques.<br />For those who are sell professional services, I also recommend \\"Building Professional Services\\" by Thomas E. Lah, Steve O'Connor and Mitchel Peterson. That book provides strategy and process that dovetails nicely with this book's skills and techniques.	2002-08-06
1450783:US	53037408	R23WF49A9DDZWC	0130621358	803152680	Business Models: A Guide for Business and IT	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Some excelllent, but obfuscated ideas	This book is manages to both delight and disappoint. The delight comes from the interesting perspective the author brings to modeling, and his obvious deep understanding of UML and its strengths and weaknesses.  It disappoints because the writing is marred by overly academic format (copious footnotes and stilted language), and some disorganization.<br />Highlights include incorporating business rules, modeling and viewpoints to develop a business model that integrates IT and business.  While the author appears to be going in the right direction, especially by touching on what I consider to be the major critical success factors and techniques, he manages to weaken this book by putting a non-standard spin on the topics.  For example, his view of business rules seems to be more in line with what he proposed in his earlier book titled &quot;Business Specifications&quot;, instead of the more mainstream approach that is well documented in Tony Morgan's &quot;Business Rules and Information Systems&quot; and Barbara Von Halle's &quot;Business Rules Applied&quot;.  The modeling approach itself departs from standard UML, even though the author does make a good case for doing so.  The problem is that by sticking with an established standard, regardless of shortcomings, you will be consistent with accepted practices that are understood throughout industry.  Going with the author's approach means a learning curve for your own staff as well as consultants, and serious problems when attempting to use mainstream tools, such as Rational Rose, to instantiate the business models.<br />I recommend this book to advanced practitioners in business modeling who want to mine some excellent ideas that are interwoven throughout, but do not recommend it to anyone who wants to learn business modeling.	2002-08-06
1455260:US	53037408	R36TYAZ0TTVIAU	0262042045	772199522	Social Thinking--Software Practice (MIT Press)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thought-provoking and eclectic	This book is an interesting collection of essays on the soft elements of software engineering.  Most of the essays deal with organizational and process aspects from a cross-functional perspective, and there is an emphasis on requirements and business/IT alignment in the overall theme of this collection.<br />Each of the five parts and 21 essays are grouped by a book structure that aligns to cross-functional cooperation from a software engineering point of view:<br />Part I Deconstructing<br />Chapter 1 -Developing and Embedding Autooperational Form Chapter 2 -On Foundational Categories in Software Development Chapter 3 -Making Use of Social Thinking: The Challenge of Bridging Activity Systems Chapter 4 -Challenging Traditions of Inquiry in Software Practice<br />Part II Informing<br />Chapter 5 -On Retrieving Skilled Practices: The Contribution of Ethnography to Software Development Chapter 6 -Representing and Modeling Collaborative Practices for Systems Development Chapter 7 -The Locales Framework: Making Social Thinking Accessible for Software Practitioners Chapter 8 -What Doesn't Fit: The &quot;Residual Category&quot; as Analytic Resource<br />Part III Grounding<br />Chapter 9 -On the Intertwining of Social and Technical Factors in Software Development Projects Chapter 10 -Software Practice is Social Practice Chapter 11 -&quot;Yes-What Does That Mean?&quot; Understanding Distributed Requirements Handling Chapter 12 -Doing Empirical Research on Software Development: Finding a Path between Understanding, Intervention, and Method Development<br />Part IV Organizing<br />Chapter 13 -Changing Work Practices in Design Chapter 14 -Information Systems Research and Information Systems Practice in a Network of Activities Chapter 15 -Reaching out for Commitments: Systems Development as Networking Chapter 16 -Participatory Organizational and Technological Innovation in Fragmented Work Environments Chapter 17 -Large-Scale Requirements Analysis as Heterogeneous Engineering<br />Part V Reorienting<br />Chapter 18 -Useware Design and Evolution: Bridging Social Thinking and Software Construction Chapter 19 -Discontinuities Chapter 20 -Localizing Self on the Internet: Designing for &quot;Genius Loci&quot; in a Global Context Chapter 21 -Intent, Form, and Materiality in the Design of Interaction Technology<br />Anyone who is concerned about business/IT alignment and software process improvement, especially readers who are working in a CMM Level 3 or above environment or in an IT or consulting organization that is a profit center will benefit from the many (if not all) of the ideas in this book.  Even if some of the information is not actionable in your organization, it will cause you to view software engineering from multiple perspectives.ng<BR>Chapter 18 -Useware Design and Evolution: Bridging Social Thinking and Software Construction Chapter 19 -Discontinuities Chapter 20 -Localizing Self on the Internet: Designing for &quot;Genius Loci&quot; in a Global Context Chapter 21 -Intent, Form, and Materiality in the Design of Interaction Technology<br />Anyone who is concerned about business/IT alignment and software process improvement, especially readers who are working in a CMM Level 3 or above environment or in an IT or consulting organization that is a profit center will benefit from the many (if not all) of the ideas in this book.  Even if some of the information is not actionable in your organization, it will cause you to view software engineering from multiple perspectives.	2002-08-01
1455557:US	53037408	R1IJPEX53YMF6C	0769510000	594166313	Swebok: Guide to the Software Engineering Body of Knowledge: Trial Version 1.00-May 2001	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inportant guidance for SW professionals	This book is a compendium of the ten knowledge areas (KAs) that cover all of the important elements of software engineering as a discipline. Note that this is a work in progress, and this version was reviewed by hundreds of reviewers from 42 countries before making it into the content set forth in the book.<br /><br />The knowledge areas are: (1) Software Requirements, (2)Software Design, (3)Software Construction, (4)Software Testing, (5) Maintenance, (6) Software Configuration Management, (7) Software Engineering Management, (8) Software Engineering Process, (9) Software Engineering Tools and Metrics, and (10) Software Quality.<br /><br />If the KAs in the SWEBOK look similar to the CMM process areas this reflects consensus in the software engineering community regarding key processes and knowledge areas for the profession. There are differences between the SWEBOK and the CMM. Unlike the CMM, which is an assessment-based model that determines an organization's capabilities based on a maturity scale, the SWEBOK is an \\"informed and reasonable characterization of the software engineering Body of Knowledge and as a baseline document\\". As such it is a framework for a software engineering organization that maps closely to what is set forth in not only the CMM, but SPICE and Bootstrap, and is an ideal career guide for software engineering professionals. In addition to that function, this guide aligns nearly perfectly to the P-CMM (see People Capability Maturity Model by Bill Curtis , William E. Hefley and Sally A. Miller ISBN: 0201604450). Specific P-CMM process areas that this book supports include: Level 2 Training and Development; Level 3 Competency Development; Career Development and Competency-Based Practices; Level 4 Competency-Based Assets, Organizational Capability Management and Mentoring; and Level 5 Organizational Performance Alignment.<br /><br />This book should be one of the primary references for any motivated software engineering professional or mature organization.anization.	2002-08-01
1455652:US	53037408	R1FZ66WBMDWHT7	0769511996	328477540	The Project Manager's Guide to Software Engineering's Best Practices	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Lives up to its title - best practices and sound approach	This is a completely updated book that departs from the earlier &quot;Software Engineering Project Management&quot; by Thayer (1997) in that it's more anchored in software engineering standards than in project management.  To be sure, this book is about project management, but takes a more holistic view.<br />The best practices, predicated upon the view that the common thread is software engineering standards and practices, are presented in three sections:<br />(1)Software Systems Engineering - a critical success factor for any software project.<br />(2) Process Management and Control - what must be done in order to effectively scope, support and manage the development process itself.<br />(3) Project Planning and Management - standard fare, including estimation, risk management, and metrics.<br />Each of these sections contain papers that discuss aspects of the topic area, which include: Software Systems Engineering, Concept of Operations, Software Requirements Specification, Software User Documentation, Software Verification and Validation, Software Life Cycle Process Management, Software Process Improvement, Software Reviews, Software Configuration Management, Software Quality Assurance, Maintenance, Software Engineering Project Management, Software Cost and Schedule, Software Risk Management and Software Metrics.<br />Personally I completely agree with the book's approach (standards and processes are critical to successful development projects).  However, even if taken as individual papers, each chapter presents excellent advice and insights that will benefit not only project managers, but all members of a development team.  If you do agree with me that the overall approach is valid you will also find &quot; SWEBOK: Guide to the Software Engineering Body of Knowledge&quot; by Alain Abran(ISBN 0769510000) will complement this book by providing more foundation material about key areas of the software engineering process.	2002-08-01
1455770:US	53037408	R2LWH22GGCUAOA	187828987X	580245156	Strategic Information Technology: Opportunities for Competitive Advantage	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Impressive and answers key questions	Much of my professional reading is devoted to anthologies, such as this book, which are a collection of papers or essays about a narrow theme. This book is one of those rare collections that come across as though written by a single author, and the range of topics and how they are connected results in one of the best books I've read on business/IT alignment and strategic planning.<br /><br />The recurring theme is using IT to achieve competitive advantage, and the topics go into every important facet of IT and how it can be leveraged to achieve that goal. More importantly, many of the papers provide answers to questions with which many organizations are currently grappling. For example, \\"Strategic Alignment for Electronic Commerce\\", \\"Communicating Strategic IT Vision to Organization Members: A Conceptual Framework\\" and \\"Outsourcing Decisions: Using Porter's Model\\" are, in my opinion, address some thorny issues and provide clear advice and guidelines. I also liked \\"Competitive Force/Marketing Mix (CF/MM) Framework\\", which is business focused, and \\"The Importance of the IT-End User Relationship Paradigm in Obtaining Alignment Between IT and the Business\\", which gives answers to a perennial question.<br /><br />If you are seeking a source of ideas to help answer the basic question, How Can IT Best Support the Business?, this book will prove to be a treasure trove of ideas and advice.	2002-08-01
1455791:US	53037408	R11HXEK1Y4V6DK	0849310318	84902136	XML Databases and the Semantic Web	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Interesting, highly readable and practical	This is one of the most readable and unique books about XML and its real power that's available. There are others, but they are more academic in nature, such as \\"Internet Based Workflow Management: Towards a Semantic Web\\" by Dan Marinescu (an excellent book in its own right, but requires a significant amount of prior knowledge of agents, knowledge management and other topics).<br /><br />What I like about this book is that it leads you through the details of XML, metadata related topics to ensure you have a good understanding of the key technical and business issues. You require little prior knowledge of XML to understand the introductory material. The author then addresses the semantic web aspect, including data mining, advanced XML concepts and semistructured databases. Next, the conceptual foundation is used to show you how to apply this information in practical ways.<br /><br />This book is ideal for e-commerce architects because it covers both business and technical issues, and goes into more detail than one would expect given the wide range of topics covered. If you want to go further into intelligent agents and a truly semantic web using XML or any other technical building block I also recommend reading \\"Network Query Language\\" by David Pallmann and Harry Forsdick. That book is more oriented towards development using a specific tool set (NQL); however, it will augment this book if you are actually implementing web intelligence instead of exploring its potential.	2002-08-01
1455961:US	53037408	R1FJROKZ5G0WWM	084931190X	909548941	New Directions in Project Management (Best Practices)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent collection of (IT) Project Management papers	There are two things prospective readers need to know about this book:  (1) it is focused in IT and software development project management, and (2) it is not a 'how to' book.<br />This is a collection of papers on advanced project management topics that experienced IT project managers will find enlightening and up-to-date with respect to techniques. The papers are divided into the following six topic areas:(1) Essential Concepts of Project Management, (2) Critical Factors for Project Quality, (3) Managing Business Relationships,  (4) Effectively Managing Outsourced Projects, (5) Managing Special Projects and (6) Measuring and Improving Project Management Success.<br />What I like is that the book does not focus solely on software development projects, but covers areas that will interest project managements in infrastructure, oursourcing management and other IT functions.  I also liked the following papers that address concerns of PMs from a larger perspective: &quot;SEI CMM or ISO 9000: Which Is Right for Your Organization? &quot;, &quot;Incorporating Six Sigma Concepts into Systems Analysis&quot; and &quot;Managing Development in the Era of Large Complex Systems&quot;. In addition, there are many papers that address concerns common to all IT project managers, regardless of their functional area, including: &quot;Business and IT: Developing Strategic Alliances&quot;, &quot;Creating and Implementing a Balanced Measurement Program&quot; and &quot;Ten Ways to Improve Project Performance&quot;.<br />IT project managers will benefit greatly from the information presented in this book.  It should be a part of any PMO library, and every consulting firm should have a copy available to its project managers.	2002-08-01
1458839:US	53037408	R1VPSU8KE5L1DU	0596002521	536675151	XML Schema: The W3C's Object-Oriented Descriptions for XML	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Excellent for experienced developers	Having recently read &quot;Definitive XML Schema&quot; by Priscilla Walmsley I thought I'd learned all I needed to know about XML Schema.  That book is more tutorial in tone and content, while this one quickly dispenses with the background material and gets into the technical details.  In fact, by chapter 2 you're already developing a schema and the subsequent chapters drill deeper into the mechanics of XML Schema.<br />I like the way each facet, factor and detail of XML schema is covered, including clear descriptions of data types, a direct linkage to XML-based databases, and all of the building blocks along the way. More importantly, the author provides multiple approaches to developing schemas, and sufficiently covers the syntactical requirements and specifications to allow you to become proficient in creating them for real applications.<br />The book is fast-paced and you will need to be familiar with XML and its related vocabularies in order to follow this book. If you need a more introductory, tutorial-based book get &quot;Definitive XML Schema&quot; by Priscilla Walmsley. However, if you understand the fundamentals of relational databases, are currently developing DTDs and understand XML, this book is better suited to your experience level and is the one I recommend.	2002-07-29
1459663:US	53037408	RX1FQ01TZST3O	0201657821	182928265	Web Content Management: A Collaborative Approach	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Perfect for the right audience	This book has received both criticisms and accolades, and depending on one's perspective, both are warranted.  The best way to determine if this book is for you is to answer the following questions: Are you in a large-scale web environment? Are you using Interwoven?  Is content management your job?  If you answered yes to two or more questions, then you'll find this book useful.<br />The collaborative approach and the tool features described in this book satisfy the first two questions - the author has obviously chosen to illustrate collaborative content workflows that apply to large-scale sites, and the tool is Interwoven.  To readers who work in such an environment and use Interwoven this book is worth its weight in gold.  For the reader who has content management responsibilities, the principles and techniques that are presented can be scaled down and put to good use.<br />What I like about the book is that the workflow and techniques, regardless of scale, answer some thorny configuration management and change control issues that are unique to web sites.  While the traditional data center world, especially in mainframes, have mature and proven processes, they do not apply to the faster paced requirements of web sites.  This is especially the case in web sites because there are competitive pressures, marketing initiatives and other drivers that demand fast changes.  Yet, there are opposing forces, such as legal issues, corporate image and systems management processes that counterbalance the drivers.  The workflow and techniques for content management that the author proposes shows how to achieve reasonable speed in deploying content, while exercising the necessary due diligence.<br />I obviously like this book, but In can understand the frustration of some readers who had different expectations when they purchased it.  I do highly recommend it to anyone who meets the criteria I cited above.	2002-07-29
1459772:US	53037408	R3KVRCOHB3ZJSJ	0387953213	742625265	A Practical Approach to Software Quality	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Complete coverage of all of the important elements of SQA	If you're setting up an SQA function for enterprise processes and measurement this book is an invaluable resource that describes the major quality approaches, and gives excellent advice on metrics collection and analysis.<br />The major quality approaches discussed are ISO 9000, SPICE and CMM.  The chapters devoted to these give a basis for comparing and selecting either a single approach, or taking the best processes and characteristics from each and developing your own approach. One nice aspect is the coverage of the ISO 9000:2000 standard, which differs from many books which only cover TickIT or the older 1996 standard that is missing the important emphasis on measuring customer satisfaction.<br />More general chapters that apply to all quality frameworks are the introduction to software quality, which covers the major issues and factors (as well as distinguishing SQA from testing), and metrics and problem solving.  I especially liked the latter because the material goes beyond projects and product development to include the full spectrum of life cycle milestones.<br />In addition, inspections and testing, and formal methods and design are described in depth and placed into the context of an encompassing quality initiative.<br />This book will give anyone, regardless of experience and knowledge levels, a complete picture of software quality and what it takes to achieve it using proven practices and techniques.	2002-07-29
1459834:US	53037408	RVTLJV4SSHYYM	0471220728	369303267	Web Metrics: Proven Methods for Measuring Web Site Success	Books	5	28	31	N	Y	A &quot;must read&quot; for marketing and CRM professionals	One key phrase from this book sticks in my mind and summarizes the entire theme of the book, &quot;You know your Web site is serving pages. But is it serving company?&quot;  Indeed, this is the most business-focused book among the ones I've read on web metrics.  The author focuses on two major areas:  marketing and customer relationship management metrics, which are closely related.  If you're seeking a more technical book, I recommend &quot;Scaling for E-Business: Technologies, Models, Performance, and Capacity Planning&quot; by Daniel A. Menasce and Virgilio A. F. Almeida.<br />Not only does this book go deeply into the business-related metrics, but it also shows how select the most meaningful metrics (you cannot economically measure or understand everything). It also shows you how to develop a strategy for gathering and using the metrics, including convincing upper management of the need for the strategy.<br />Interestingly, you can also take the information provided in this book and use it as the basis for a competitive intelligence strategy, because the very metrics that are meaningful to your business are also key indicators for your competitors.  You can either benchmark your competitors, or determine if their measurement strategy is as mature as yours.  While the author didn't explicitly cover this, the material in the book certainly gives you the foundation for such a strategy.<br />If you work in marketing or are responsible for CRM you'll find that the book's approach and wealth of ideas and techniques can be put to immediate use.  As a side note, if you are using this book in conjunction with a CRM strategy, you'll also want to read &quot;The CRM Handbook: A Business Guide to Customer Relationship Management&quot; by Jill Dych&eacute;, which touches upon the metrics aspects presented in this book, and goes deeper into CRM.<br />In addition to the material presented in the book, the accompanying web site is equally as valuable, especially the numerous links to related material that is grouped by book chapter.o related material that is grouped by book chapter.	2002-07-28
1459836:US	53037408	R2LH4OMYXICOBO	1928994857	169436466	Developing Web Services with Java APIs for XML (JAX Pack) with CDROM	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quick start for JAX in JWSDP environments	Developers who are either new to, or considering using, the Java Web Services Developer Pack will find this book to be one of the best guides to get productive in or familiar with this environment.<br />The book is a comprehensive examination of web services development using the JAX Pack (Java XML Pack) part of the environment, covering processing XML documents with SAX and DOM, XML transformations, using the JSP Standard Tag Library, writing SOAP clients and servers, using XML-based RPCs, web services locators, and Java SSL.  In addition the book covers installing and using JWSDP tools in the Windows NT and Linux environments.<br />Aside from way the book provides you with a fast start, it is also exceptionally well written and laid out.  I like the use of screenshots, tables and code examples that are on practically every page.  These make learning the JAX part of JWSDP, as well as learning the basics of JWSDP itself, a lot easier than going through the volumes of Sun's documentation.  Plus, you're stepped through developing practical artifacts, such as a SOAP client and servlets, and SAX and DOM parsers (among other useful components).<br />The publisher also does something I've not before seen - the book comes with a 1-year upgrade plan that provides monthly mailings and additional material when you register the book.<br />About half the book is about using JAX and JWSDP, and the other half is about actual development.  If you are looking for a book that strictly focuses on coding and code you may not be 100% satisfied, but if you want to jump start yourself or a team this is an ideal book for that goal.	2002-07-28
1459984:US	53037408	R3L05VEEQYD5Z1	0596002459	606041600	Java Management Extensions: Managing Java Applications with JMX	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Solid intro to an exciting technology	You will need a good working knowledge of J2EE and a background in applications and systems management (i.e., Tivoli, the ARM specification, CA-UniCenter, etc.) to fully benefit from this book. If you have these requisites you'll appreciate JMX, which in my opinion, is an exciting technology. This book is unique in that it fully explains how to use it to build real world system and application management solutions.  In past engagements I've worked with Tivoli, home-grown solutions and have explored the ARM approach to application management. Each has strengths and weaknesses ranging from proprietary (Tivoli and home grown) to intrusive (ARM).  JMX is an open systems approach to building management solutions in a standardized manner.<br />The book provides a complete description of the Sun JMX APIs, including code snippets throughout as the book describes the APIs and how to call them to perform management functions.  Note that JMX assumes the J2EE environment, and the extent of management includes not only applications, but devices and service parameters using a web-based environment.<br />Topics covered in the book include: JMX concepts, a complete discussion of MBeans (static, dynamic, instrumenting resources with model MBeans), and various service types (monitoring, timing and notification).  The examples, including code snippets, illustrate how each concept and service type works, giving you a solid foundation from which to begin developing management solutions.<br />While the book will get you up-to-speed quickly, you will need to fill in some of the blanks by using Sun documentation from their web site to get the complete picture.  Therein lies the value of the book - it saves you countless hours of sifting through volumes of documentation to get the essence of JMX, and points you to the relevant documentation and development tools to keep the momentum. In this respect the book shows you how to download and install the JMX reference implementation and begin using it to build adapters and management tools.ing it to build adapters and management tools.	2002-07-28
1460027:US	53037408	R19QB2WWR6L2I5	0521652626	387965255	More Process Patterns: Delivering Large-Scale Systems Using Object Technology (SIGS: Managing Object Technology)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent book about the overlooked part of development	This is the extension to the first book, Process Patterns, and covers the testing, release and production milestone processes in the system development life cycle.<br />Highlights:<br />- All processes are cataloged by life cycle milestone and presented in pattern format for quick reference and consistency.<br />- The author provides an excellent tutorial on patterns in the front of the book.<br />- Will work with any life cycle model (waterfall, spiral, iterative, etc.).<br />The material is well thought out and complete.  I was impressed at the depth and detail in each of the patterns, and am gratified that someone has taken the time to write a book that covers what happens after development.  If you are working in the Rational Unified Process environment you may want to consider, instead, the author's newer book titled &quot;The Unified Process Transition and Production Phases&quot; (ISBN 0521652626), which contains the same material, but aligns it to the Unified Process (the book calls it the Enterprise Unified Process, but it's essentially the RUP).	2002-07-28
1460044:US	53037408	R3K9W2P7RH8LC7	0201604450	710370598	The People Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Workforce	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Proviides a roadmap to technical workforce management	I've been a strong, but frustrated, proponent of the P-CMM since its inception. This book goes well beyond the original SEI documentation by thoroughly describing the rationale behind the CMM and making a strong business case with respect to the tangible and intangible benefits that accrue from implementing it.<br /><br />This book contains something for managers, particularly upper management who needs to not only endorse the P-CMM, but also need to commit to it and sponsor it in order to make it happen. The chapters of the book that apply to them are:<br />1 -The Process Maturity Framework, portions of 5 - Interpreting the People CMM (Organizational Factors, and commitment and Ability to Perform), and 7 - Experience with the People CMM).<br /><br />For technical line managers the entire book will be relevant because it covers the reasons, structure and key process areas in great detail. In addition, once a P-CMM initiative is given the go ahead, the implementation team and all primary stakeholders will also benefit from large portions of the book because it also covers implementation issues and an approach in detail.<br /><br />Overall, this book presents a maturity framework that contains goals for any organization that understands the relationship between the morale and management of a technical workforce and the resulting impact on the business bottom line. I'll go so far as to state that if this book is followed and a successful implementation of the P-CMM results, attaining the corresponding level of the SW-CMM will be relatively effortless.	2002-07-28
1460058:US	53037408	R3P8OJM5VV01NH	1590470346	762454914	SAS/ACCESS Interface to Peoplesoft: User's Guide, Release 8.2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brief tutorial for business users and IT product eval	At 46 pages this is more a pamphlet than a book.  However, for business users who are working with SAS/ACCESS in the PeopleSoft environment the tutorial approach will make most power users quickly proficient in searching and using PeopleSoft metadata to build SAS views.  Some knowledge of PeopleSoft is required, but the book assumes little prior knowledge of SAS/ACCESS.<br />If you are not using SAS/ACCESS, but are considering it as a tool for your PeopleSoft environment, this book is a realistic, hype-free look at the capabilities and features of the product.	2002-07-28
1460354:US	53037408	R340WS8R0DTX5U	0764536907	568612121	Creating Adobe Acrobat Forms	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Clearly explains a powerful Acrobat feature	This book reveals one of the best kept secrets of Acrobat 5.0 - easy to create forms handling and workflow.  Actually the features aren't secret, but the Adobe documentation is so confusing that only the most technically inclined users made use of it.  The author clearly explains how to create forms and employ them as business solutions.<br />What I like is the way you're introduced to all of the features of Acrobat, including products that are only available through direct purchase from Adobe, that places forms development into the context of the much larger picture of Acrobat's features and capabilities.  The book then proceeds to systematically step you through creating basic forms (dynamic and static), and all of the associated details, such as field types and properties, calculating data and workflow considerations.<br />After you've mastered the basics the book shows how to use Javascript to create sophisticated forms and handling applications.  In this section of the book the author does not assume any knowledge of Javascript on the part of the reader.  The tutorial is clearly written and explains the basics of Javascript, but unless you have prior programming experience you may want to skip this section.  On the other hand, if you understand the basics of programming or have used some of the user-oriented languages, such as SQL or Visual Basic, you should have no problem with this section of the book.<br />The most valuable part of the book is in Parts III and IV, which cover distributing and working with forms. The chapters in these two parts of the book show you how to apply forms to business solutions.  In addition, the CD ROM contains example forms and a valuable collection of Javascript routines that you can either use as is, or modify to suit specific requirements.  There are also trial versions of various Acrobat plug-ins, and the entire book reproduced in Acrobat format (plus two ebooks titled \\"101 Acrobat 5.0 eTips and Techniques\\" and \\"101 Acrobat 5.0 Forms eTips and Techniques\\").5.0 Forms eTips and Techniques\\").	2002-07-28
1460410:US	53037408	R2V6QTEAS8GT58	1580256449	829446453	IT Service Vision Software: Macro Reference, Release 2.3	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Complete, comprehensive concordance of macros	This 570 page book is a concordance of IT Resource Management (formerly called IT Service Vision) macros, and a compendium of additional information, including batch job troubleshooting, error messages and data archiving.<br />Each of the macros are described in detail, and the macros are grouped by function (administration, reports, and data dictionary and control).<br />The audience for this book is limited to systems programmers who will be developing and implementing IT Resource Management solutions in the data warehouse, and assumes the use of SAS products in the environment.  If you are seeking a more basic book that introduces IT Resource Manager you will want to read &quot;Getting Started With It Service Vision: Release 2&quot; (ISBN 1580259146), which is less technical and will provide a better overview of features and how to use them at the user and data warehouse administrator levels.	2002-07-28
1460427:US	53037408	RP0I1EWLO46ZH	1904151094	299315340	Usable Forms for the Web	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Vendor-independent and full of valuable code &amp; ideas	Intermediate web developers will find the collection of forms in this book to be an invaluable library, and the tutorial on the techniques behind the forms well written and sure to increase both skills and knowledge.<br />Chapter 1 starts off with the basics of HTML forms.  While nothing in this section is likely to be new to intermediate developers, the next chapter, which covers form design, gives a wealth of information and tips for assuring usability and aesthetics.<br />The chapters that follow is the reason why this book is such a value - each covers a specific environment, including Macromedia Flash, Microsoft's ASP and .NET, and PHP and MySQL.  There are also chapters on general form validation techniques and client-side form scripting.<br />I like the fact that the book takes special pains to ensure that all forms are browser-independent and W3C-compliant.  One of the book's goals is to show you how to develop forms that will work with IE and Netscape (versions 4 and above for PCs and IE 5 and Netscape 6 and above for Macintosh browsers), as well as Opera version 5 and above for PCs and Macs.<br />While the book does not come with a CD ROM, all code examples can be downloaded from the publisher's web site, along with a bonus chapter titled &quot;Alternative Uses for HTML Forms&quot;.  If you do web development in any environment, using any of the covered tools you'll find yourself referring to this book often.	2002-07-28
1460465:US	53037408	R3RTH9OH2EU4WM	0863801935	490730208	Process-Centered Requirements Engineering (Advanced Software Development Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Secondary source for Requirements Analysts - innovative	This five-part book provides a requirements engineering process and implementation and management plan that will fit align to the major assessment-based models, such as CMM, SPICE and Bootstrap.  With tailoring it will also support iterative development environments, such as the Rational Unified Process.<br />The book is structured as follows:<br />Part I - the framework that uses three dimensions:  stakeholder agreement, requirements representation (the degree of formality with which the requirements are elicited, documented and managed) and completeness of specifications.  On the surface this framework seems obvious, but I've not come across it in the large amount of literature I've read on the subject.  In my opinion, the framework is among the most elegant and practical I've seen.<br />PART II - presents a requirements and process centered engineering environment that embodies a repository of process definitions and traceability, process execution and process methods.  This environment is the requirements process support component of the framework, and also includes mechanisms for process improvement.<br />Part III - drills down into the process execution part of the requirements and process centered engineering environment.<br />Part IV - discusses the environment's process repository.  This part of the book introduces a knowledge representation language called O-Telos, which is interesting, but in my opinion goes beyond the practical because O-Telos isn't a mainstream tool that organizations are going to easily assimilate.  However, the formality that O-Telos lends to the process and environment illustrate how the more formal representations of the framework described in Part I can be achieved.<br />Part V - ties the preceding material into a prototype requirements engineering environment.<br />This is not a primary text on requirements engineering, and is of interest only to those who have chosen requirements engineering as a professional discipline. For that audience this book contains a wealth of ideas, as well as a conceptual approach that can be refactored into a process that meets a specific organization's goals and objectives within the context of an enterprise-wide software engineering process.  I give it 5 stars because the work is innovative and makes a unique contribution to the body of knowledge.audience this book contains a wealth of ideas, as well as a conceptual approach that can be refactored into a process that meets a specific organization's goals and objectives within the context of an enterprise-wide software engineering process.  I give it 5 stars because the work is innovative and makes a unique contribution to the body of knowledge.	2002-07-28
1460580:US	53037408	R1OOTNLDTI3FA4	1580259146	871606142	Getting Started With It Service Vision: Release 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent overview of a complex product	At 106 pages this book is an overview of SAS IT Resource Management (formerly called IT Service Vision), that covers the concepts and common tasks.  Although SAS has changed the name of the product and the title reflects the former product name, the material still applies.  The book is divided into the following chapters:<br />Chapter 1: Introduction to IT Service Vision<br />Chapter 2: Starting IT Service Vision<br />Chapter 3: Working with Your Performance Data<br />Chapter 4: Analyzing Data through Reports<br />Chapter 5: Additional Documentation and Other Resources<br />The focus of the book is on the QuickStart wizard and window interface, and how to use IT Resource Management to manage production jobs in the data warehouse and to use the major reporting tools.<br />If you are seeking more in-depth information, especially about the macros and creating and managing batch files you'll also want to read IT Service Vision Software: Macro Reference, Release 2.3 (ISBN 1580256449), which covers that information in great detail.	2002-07-28
1460583:US	53037408	R1WH4AI5PJNRUG	0471958549	514555438	Software Process (Trends in Software, 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For advanced organizations and practitioners	Although over six years old, the collection of papers that comprise this book are as appliable today as when they were first written.<br />Each paper is a chapter, and each chapter has a place in the book's structure to give a complete picture of the software engineering process and key factors.  The papers are:<br />Software Process Modeling - this paper deals with the modeling the software process itself, including workflows, and presents a coherent picture of how a process-oriented software development organization should be designed.<br />Process-centered Software Engineering Environments: A Grand Tour - this paper is a scaled down version of &quot;Process-Centered Software Engineering Environments&quot; (ISBN 0818671033) and reflects the ideas of one of that book's authors, Pankaj K. Garg, who has extensive experience in that subject area.<br />Information Management in Process-centered Software Engineering Environments - at the most abstract level this paper proposes an information management component that consists of an access management layer, integration layer and a repository, and has the following interfaces: multi-user interface component and process support component.  The abstraction is looped, and is in reality a high level specification for a rdbms that supports a process-centered software engineering environment.  As such it gives the functional requirements and a coarse-grained data architecture.<br />Human, Social and Organizational Influences on the Software Process - I liked this paper, but it doesn't address the issues with the same depth or detail as the P-CMM.<br />Understanding and Improving Time Usage in Software Development - this is an analysis and findings of how time is used, and the analysis examined three methods of data collection: archeology (retrospective study of one developer's time spent developing a single feature) time diaries and direct observation.  The report shows how to go about investigating efficiency, but the conclusions of the particular studies documented in the paper were ambiguous in my opinion.  However, the design of the analysis will give ideas of the complexities and requirements for conducting such analysis.<br />Cultural Adaptation of CMM: A Case Study of a Software Engineering Process Group in a Japanese Manufacturing Factory. This paper was particularly interesting because the Japanese as a whole have been disdainful of the CMM - and for good reason since their quality methods are much more rigorous than what is required below CMM level 4.<br />Overall, this book contains a great deal of information that will be useful to software organizations (or individual practitioners) who have a high level of capability maturity.  Some of the material is esoteric and none of it will be meaningful to anyone who is not working in, or advising, a highly mature development organization.  However, for those who are working in or advising such an organization nearly all of the material will provide insights and ideas with which to refine processes or implement techniques.ons of the particular studies documented in the paper were ambiguous in my opinion.  However, the design of the analysis will give ideas of the complexities and requirements for conducting such analysis. <br />Cultural Adaptation of CMM: A Case Study of a Software Engineering Process Group in a Japanese Manufacturing Factory. This paper was particularly interesting because the Japanese as a whole have been disdainful of the CMM - and for good reason since their quality methods are much more rigorous than what is required below CMM level 4. <br />Overall, this book contains a great deal of information that will be useful to software organizations (or individual practitioners) who have a high level of capability maturity.  Some of the material is esoteric and none of it will be meaningful to anyone who is not working in, or advising, a highly mature development organization.  However, for those who are working in or advising such an organization nearly all of the material will provide insights and ideas with which to refine processes or implement techniques.	2002-07-28
1460760:US	53037408	R10MMPIR96CYFK	0321118863	847152081	Managing Information Security Risks: The OCTAVE (SM) Approach	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Detailed intro to SEI's CERT/CC OCTAVE method	The OCTAVE approach is an effective and proven approach to security risk management, and this book distills the documentation that is available from SEI's CERT/CC group into a succinct, clearly written description of OCTAVE and associated processes.<br />OCTAVE stands for \\"Operationally Critical Threat, Asset, and Vulnerability Evaluation\\", which focuses specifically on business or organizational critical success factors and operational postures.  This differs slightly from traditional vulnerability assessments, which are wider in scope, and auditing, which is based on policies and due diligence.  While there seems to be little distinction on the surface, as you read this book you discover that OCTAVE's focus and philosophy is akin to Pareto analysis in that you narrow the scope to business success and operational factors.<br />The book is divided into three main parts:<br />I - Introduction (introduces OCTAVE and describes the basics).<br />II - OCTAVE Method (explains the method, how to identify organizational knowledge, create threat profiles, identify key components, select components for evaluation, conduct a risk analysis, develop and select a strategy).<br />III - Variations and tailoring strategies.<br />In addition to the main sections the appendices are valuable. They include case studies, worksheets and a catalog of the eight OCTAVE processes.<br />Note that OCTAVE is intended for organizations in excess of 300 people, although OCTAVE-S (briefly covered in Part III) is a scaled down version of the main approach.  There is also a version of OCTAVE that addresses outsourcing, but was skimmed over very quickly in the book.<br />The book is an excellent guide to OCTAVE, and, in my opinion, OCTAVE itself is a viable approach to information security risk management.	2002-07-27
1460856:US	53037408	R3BQC70VJCXZJC	0130216127	95879819	PeopleSoft HRMS Reporting	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	A treasure for technical and functional users	This book is a treasure for anyone who needs to get quickly up-to-speed on the PeopleSoft HRMS data architecture and the most common tables against which queries and reports are executed.  This alone would make the book invaluable because of the confusing PeopleSoft documentation and the thousands of tables.  However, the author goes well beyond by breaking down the most important tables, grouped by function, into attributes and explaining how to create highly useful business reports from them.<br />In addition to the thorough coverage of the data architecture, the book also provides an excellent compendium of information and tips for using SQR to its fullest potential.  Although my main interest is in the tables, I considered material on SQR to be a bonus and learned a great deal from this section.<br />If you are working with PeopleSoft on either the technical or functional side this book will probably be your most used reference. The author deserves the highest accolades for clear writing, technical knowledge and the ability to distill the essentials into one of the best references and tutorials I've read in a long time.	2002-07-27
1461015:US	53037408	R2UCJFHA5YAWQ2	0471207667	534271406	Network Query Language (NQL)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent intro to and details of a powerful language	This book describes NQL version 2.0, and the CD ROM comes with trial versions of NLQ (a Windows version and a Java version in Linux and Macintosh formats).  Note:  the trial versions are good for 60 days, after which you need to purchase the commercial versions, but the trial period is more than sufficient to evaluate the power of NQL. Also note that the commercial versions are somewhat pricey for individuals, but are reasonably priced for consultants and developers who decide to develop commercial-grade products.<br />NQL is thoroughly covered in detail, serving as a guide to the language, as well as an idea resource for how to effectively use the NQL language and development environment to create and deploy intelligent agents.  The examples cover the full range of web-enabled and e-commerce applications from LDAP to credit card processing, as well as going into surprising topics such as web crawling, statistical analysis and XML parsing.  These, individually or combined, are a solid foundation for automated competitive intelligence gathering, online bidding and intelligent supply chain management.<br />As a scripting language NQL is powerful.  The book's many examples clearly show how you can incorporate powerful functions in 4 to 5 lines of NQL code that would take hundreds of lines of Java or C++ code. In addition, NQL can be called from other languages, such as Java.<br />If you're a professional developer who wants to evaluate NQL this book is an ideal way to get started, especially with the trial versions that come with it.  You will also find a wealth of additional information and scripts on the web site that supports the book.	2002-07-27
1461124:US	53037408	RD30VRI0XZAVK	013009627X	135124844	Managing IT as an Investment: Partnering for Success	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Best practices in customer-focused IT management	Although the title implies a focus on IT portfolio management, the book goes into the core of IT management. For the IT manager or CIO this book is one of the most coherent and practical guides to what you need to do in order to deliver service and support in a cost-effective, mature manner.<br />The underlying theme is developing a value-based partnership between IT and the business process owners that IT supports.  This is introduced and developed in Chapter 1 (Introduction), and is placed within the context of Porter's value chain.  This chapter also covers value alignment as a guiding principle. Chapters 2 through 4 expand upon the concepts by explaining consequence-based thinking (a powerful technique for examining initiatives), organizational factors and issues in the form of matrixed resources and business/IT alignment, and value management.<br />Chapter 5 is particularly valuable because it shows how to transform the goals and objectives from the first four chapters into a strategy.  The tactics that support the strategy are discussed in the subsequent chapters:  drilling down into the small picture (Chapter 6), organizational details (Chapter 7), human capital management (Chapter 8) and investing in values (Chapter 9).<br />The final chapter, CIO responsibilities, and the appendices provide a strong foundation of guidelines and tools.  I thought the appendices were particularly valuable, especially A (Sample Business Case Template) and (C) Desktop Development Standards and Procedures). Other material in the appendices includes  (B) Personal Productivity Services Organization Overview and (D) Systems Development Contract.<br />There are two additional books that will nicely complement this one, and I recommend reading them after this one in the following order:  Smart Business by Dave L. Chapman and  Barry Sheehy, and Building Operational Excellence: Strategies to Improve It People and Processes by Dale Kutnick and Bruce Allen.	2002-07-27
1467902:US	53037408	R3662U9FEB38Q9	0849398290	765853548	Information Security Management Handbook, Fourth Edition, Volume I	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Not written as an exam guide &amp; is Vol 1 of 3 volumes	This book is a collection of papers that covers the ten domains of the Common Body of Knowledge (CBK) Generally Accepted Systems Security Principles (GASSP).  As a compendium of knowledge from acknowledged experts this book represents an exceptionally valuable tool for security practitioners, and because the papers are grouped by CBK domain, it is also a useful study aid for anyone who is pursuing CISSP certification.<br />The papers, individually and collectively, contain a wealth of information.  However, anyone who wants to use this book as a resource for preparing for the CISSP exam should know that this book is Volume 1 of a three volume set.  Moreover, this is not a book that was written as a study guide as much as a professional reference, and it isn't the only book a CISSP candidate should read.<br />For the practitioner this book is an excellent investment because it does cover all ten CBK domains in great detail. However, I recommend  investing in the CD ROM version of this book (Information Security Management Handbook on CD-ROM, ISBN 0849312345), which contains this book and Volumes 2 and 3.  The CD ROM is more up-to-date and is more convenient then three books that combined contain nearly 2000 pages.<br />Regardless of whether you opt for this book or the CD ROM, you'll gain a wealth of knowledge from this book and if used in conjunction with other sources of information you will be well prepared to pass the CISSP exam.	2002-07-21
1467945:US	53037408	R1H4SS74U0JZYE	0849312345	298256952	Information Security Management Handbook on CD-ROM, 2002 Edition	Books	5	20	21	N	N	CD ROM version significantly different from paper version	Don't confuse this CD ROM with the book that is being sold under the same title (ISBN 0849398290) because there are some major differences besides the media on which the material is provided.<br />The book is actually Volume 1 of the Information Security Handbook, Fourth Edition.  This CD ROM contains Volume 1, plus Volumes 2 and 3 of the handbook, making it a more complete compilation of the material that encompasses the ten domains of the Common Body of Knowledge (CBK) of Generally Accepted Systems Security Principles (GASSP).  See the product page for Volume 1 for reviews and a complete description of that subset of this CD ROM.<br />Volumes 2 and 3, like Volume 1 are aligned to the ten domains, but have more up-to-date material and new papers addressing a wider array of topics.  Moreover, CISSP candidates will find a great deal more study material, and working practitioners will find information that covers emerging trends and technologies that have surfaced since Volume 1 was published.<br />The new or expanded material of the two additional volumes on this CD ROM are:<br />Volume 2 - (published in 2000), goes deeper in network security, but also covers interesting topics such as single-signon (will be of particular interest to organizations implementing LDAP), centralized authentication, and related topics in addition to newer coverage in each of the ten CBKs.<br />Volume 2 (published in 2001), is an overall update for each of the CBKs and contains a lot of fresh material that is fair game for CISSP exam questions, as well as a compendium of fresh material for practitioners.<br />In addition to the convenience of having all of this material on a CD ROM vs. over ten pounds of paper, the contents are searchable using the built in search facility, and can be printed when hard copy is required.  This is a nice feature for consultants who can bring a wealth of reference material on site for quick cross-referencing during assessments or developing action plans that are consistent with the GASSP. Of course, the fact that this collection is more complete, comprehensive and up-to-date than the book by the same title makes this an attractive choice for anyone who requires working references or wants to prepare for the CISSP examination.t are consistent with the GASSP. Of course, the fact that this collection is more complete, comprehensive and up-to-date than the book by the same title makes this an attractive choice for anyone who requires working references or wants to prepare for the CISSP examination.	2002-07-21
1468246:US	53037408	R17B1V5MWYEA73	0201749602	27997372	XML Topic Maps: Creating and Using Topic Maps for the Web	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Interesting approach to knowledge management	In order to fully appreciate this book you will need a good working knowledge of XML and associated W3G documents, and more than a casual exposure to knowledge management.  The first four chapters are a blend of historical information about  XTM (XML topic maps) and fundamental technical information that describes design rationale and components of XTM (which is a separate open source initiative that is based on the ISO/IEC 13250 Topic Maps standard).<br />Chapters 5, 6 and 7 dive into the mechanics of XTM and knowledge management, and requires the prerequisite knowledge I cited above.  This part of the book is not an easy read. This is not a reflection of the authors/editors ability to write as much as it is of the nature of the material.  Knowledge management and development issues are given both wide and deep treatment in these chapters. Chapters 8 and 9 go deeper into the XML family as they relate to XTM (with an emphasis on XSLT), and address creating and maintaining sites that use XTM/XSLT as the core of a knowledge management strategy.<br />Related topics are covered in Chapters 10 through 13, including open source tools, RDF (widely used as a mechanism for weblogs and blogs that are gaining popularity), and semantic networks (intelligent agent-based systems). The final two chapters tie together the preceding material with a chapter devoted to topic map fundamentals for knowledge representation and a chapter about topic maps in knowledge organizations.<br />If you are interested in using an XML-like technology as the foundation of a knowledge management strategy, or are interested in learning about new directions in the integration of web technologies and knowledge management this book is ideal.  For the technical reader the code examples, pointers to open source and commercial solutions and the website that supports this book (using topic maps, of course), this book is an excellent way to leverage knowledge of XML and use it to develop knowledge management solutions.solutions.	2002-07-21
1468269:US	53037408	RETIHIVW97K7R	0749421827	234765236	How to Be a Better Project Manager (How to Be a Better-- Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best books for the new project manager	A better title for this book would have been &quot;Get Quickly Started in Project Management&quot; because this book provides one of the clearest pictures of what project management is all about, and how to become a successful project manager.  That the author manages to accomplish this in less than 160 pages, without leaving anything important out,  is a remarkable accomplishment.<br />Although I've long since mastered the material that is presented (many lessons the hard way through mistakes), I still found it valuable.  First, it refocused me on the real issues, such as stakeholder management and customer (end user) satisfaction, and second, it allowed me to step back and see the big picture.  Even experienced project managers sometimes get so caught up in details, challenges and politics that a glimpse of the basics is refreshing.  More importantly, this book is one of the few that I would recommend to new project managers or those who are about to be thrust into that role without hesitation.<br />Highlights include:<br />- discussion of good leadership principles and teamwork in practical terms<br />- one of the best approaches to attaining customer satisfaction (the material doesn't contain anything new, but hits the key points and uses common sense instead of dancing around the issues with theory and rhetoric)<br />- collected best practice techniques (project logs, work breakdown structures, risk management and resource management)<br />- how to manage conflicts and issues<br />The best feature is that this book is short, filled with common sense and breaks the art and science of project management down into easily digested pieces.  While you won't learn the more advanced techniques, you will certainly get a solid education in the basics upon which to build as you gain experience.	2002-07-21
1468751:US	53037408	RZOVWMKCQAT08	1558601902	506632054	Transaction Processing: Concepts and Techniques (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Showing its age, but still has a lot to offer	For nearly a decade this book has been the definitive reference on transaction processing.  Although the more recent, May 2001 book titled &quot;Transactional Information Systems: Theory, Algorithms, and the Practice of Concurrency Control&quot; by Gerhard Weikum and Gottfried Vossen will probably supplant this book as the standard reference, there is still much material that makes this book useful.<br />In particular, this book covers the following topics in more depth than the newer boom cited above:<br />- Fault tolerance and availability, both topics are covered in depth from hardware and software perspectives. This is unique for a book on transaction processing in that most books on the subject confine their scope to software and databases.<br />- A wide and complete survey of transaction models. True, some of this material is about models that are falling into disuse, but the value is the way the authors go deeply into the mechanics.  I've always felt that this part of the book is the most valuable because the principles can be refactored into hybrid models.  Moreover, comparing this material with the newer book by Weikum and Vossen shows that these principles are still employed in today's TP solutions.<br />Material about transaction processing monitors is obviously out of date, but, like the TP models, the principles still apply to contemporary systems.  My recommendation is if you are going to buy a single book on the topic get the Weikum and Vossen I cited in the first paragraph.  However, if your budget allows, I also highly recommend this book as well because of the depth in which fault tolerance and TP models are covered.  If you want to just learn the basics of TP I recommend that you consider &quot;Principles of Transaction Processing&quot; by Philip A. Bernstein and Eric Newcomer because it is less daunting than this or the Weikum and Vossen book (both of which are 1100+ pages).	2002-07-20
1468754:US	53037408	R2XRGHWRAMHE40	1580532861	420184378	Action Focused Assessment for Software Process Improvement	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An exceptionally effective and flexible approach to SPI	This book both took me by surprise and delighted me.  I was surprised because I've been a frequent visitor on the author's website, which is filled with information about process improvement, software quality and related material and wasn't aware of this book. I was delighted because this book synthesizes and expands upon much of the material I'd downloaded, plus it goes deep into specifics of software process improvement to which I had not been exposed.<br />The book's principal theme is measuring process maturity using a framework called &quot;Action Focused Assessment&quot; (AFA), and using the findings from the assessment to develop a process improvement strategy.  The AFA framework is a V-model.  It's based on the same paradigm as the German Federal Ministry of Defense software life cycle model, but the elements are different. What makes this model type powerful and practical is the way each milestone in the early stages are directly related to milestones in the later stages of the cycle.  In the AFA the model has seven layers (vision/mission objectives, policies and procedures, project management, requirements, design, coding, test), and roles (senior and middle management, project leaders and practitioners.  The left side of the V, moving top to bottom represents the assessment, and the right side moving bottom to top represents the actions based on assessment findings. This ensures that each key process area defined by layers has defined roles and responsibilities for both assessment and process improvement initiatives.<br />While the AFA is the centerpiece of the book's theme, each chapter covers all of the key elements necessary to put the AFA framework into practice: executive sponsorship and commitment, assessment training, assessment activities, interviewing, developing findings and recommendations, making presentations and action planning for process improvement.<br />While the ostensible purpose of this book is to provide an assessment framework for organizations intent on pursuing CMM level 2 or above, the framework and detailed approach provided will work exceptionally well for organizations that have opted for SPICE, Bootstrap or other improvement-based goals.<br />Process improvement consultants will benefit the most from this book because it will give a ready-made framework for conducting assessments and developing findings and recommendations.  However, this book is also an excellent roadmap for internal company initiatives to find their capability baseline from which to develop an action plan for either stepped or continuous improvement.rganizations intent on pursuing CMM level 2 or above, the framework and detailed approach provided will work exceptionally well for organizations that have opted for SPICE, Bootstrap or other improvement-based goals.<br />Process improvement consultants will benefit the most from this book because it will give a ready-made framework for conducting assessments and developing findings and recommendations.  However, this book is also an excellent roadmap for internal company initiatives to find their capability baseline from which to develop an action plan for either stepped or continuous improvement.	2002-07-20
1468848:US	53037408	R3RK8YGPAI1AA8	0749433078	681183563	Successful Project Management: Apply Tried and Tested Techniques, Develop Effective PM Skills and Plan, Implement and Evaluate (Creating Success)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Practical techniques wrapped in a defined process	Trevor Young, this book's author, is a prolific author of project management and process improvement books that are characterized by brevity, rich content and expert advice.  This book has all of those characteristics.<br />At 155 pages this book is brief, but the range of topics, excellent use of illustrations, tables and checklists pack rich information into the relatively small page count.  More importantly, though, is the way the book is structured, and the expertise that the author shares.<br />Highlights: Chapters 2 and 3 delve into factors for success and cover both obvious and subtle factors.  In my opinion even seasoned project managers will learn a few tricks.  In particular, the process outlined in Chapter 3 is a clearly defined model that every project manager should adopt.  Chapters 4 through 10 cover each major topic area in the process, including project conception and initiation, definition, stakeholder management, risk management, planning and estimating, launching and controlling the project, and shutting down the project.<br />Although the book flows in a sequence, each chapter can be read independently of the preceding ones, and each chapter is crammed with best practices, techniques for satisfying requirements of critical success factors, and checklists. The best feature of this book is that it goes to the key points, clearly explains them and shows how to use them in real projects.	2002-07-20
1469024:US	53037408	R3FR9PFI2RYPL5	0130863289	415349616	Scaling for E-Business: Technologies, Models, Performance, and Capacity Planning	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent performance &amp;n capacity approach for app layer	This is one of a series of books about performance and capacity metrics by the authors.  Each of their books covers a specific environment (client/server, mainframes, web services), and each explains the theory, quantitative methods and practical approaches using common tools like Microsoft Excel.<br />This book's focus is on performance and capacity of applications in the e-commerce infrastructure, and like the other books by the authors, it covers every facet while explaining the what's and why's.  More importantly, this book will not overwhelm readers who are rusty in math because the authors weave in refresher material as they go along.<br />What makes this book valuable is the blend of business and technical topics, particularly in Part I where business models are thoroughly discussed.  I personally believe that this material is as important as the more technically focused material in subsequent chapters because it wakes up the technical reader as to why their job of developing scalable solutions is important by linking the technical aspects to business imperatives.<br />Parts II (Evaluating E-Business Infrastructure and Services) and III (Capacity Planning for E-Business) are the heart of the technical matter, and the chapters systematically dissect each aspect of an e-commerce infrastructure from the application layer point of view.  This is where quantitative methods are introduced and where the value of the spreadsheets on the CD ROM increase.  Note that there are more up-to-date versions of these spreadsheets on the book's associated website, as well as errata for the book.<br />Practical considerations that blend the business and technical perspectives are presented in Part IV (Models of Specific E-Business Segments).  This chapter consists of case studies that tie together all of the preceding material using real world examples.<br />Because this book is more focused on performance and capacity at the application and business model layer, you should read the authors' newest book, &quot;Capacity Planning for Web Services: Metrics, Models, and Methods&quot;. That book covers the lower level details of the infrastructure<br />to round out the picture of an end-to-end view of performance and capacity management.d the authors' newest book, &quot;Capacity Planning for Web Services: Metrics, Models, and Methods&quot;. That book covers the lower level details of the infrastructure<BR>to round out the picture of an end-to-end view of performance and capacity management.	2002-07-20
1469168:US	53037408	R1MKLON2QDN6EQ	0749428430	196751209	The Handbook of Project Managment	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Advice about refining and structuring PM	Regardless of your level of experience and knowledge you'll benefit from this book.  At 256 pages this is a relatively short book that is unique in that it provides both techniques for successful project management and how to integrate them into governing policies and procedures.<br />In addition to a structured approach to project initiation, planning, control and shutdown, this book also provides an incredible array us useful checklists, tables and other project artifacts that can be used as guidelines for your own standardized project forms. While a previous reviewer understandably lamented that these should have also been provided in electronic format on a CD ROM or accompanying website, even in paper format these will give you practical models which can be easily replicated in any word processing program or HTML for sharing on a company intranet.<br />This book closely follows the UK project management standard called PRINCE2, but also aligns nicely with the US standard that is embodied in the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge.  More importantly, the process flow and associated policy and procedure guidelines can be used independently of any project management standard, and if followed will assure a high project success rate.  This is because the author focuses on key critical success factors, such as defined roles and responsibilities, breaking projects into stages, and good estimating and control techniques.  I especially like the emphasis on project change management and the importance placed on properly shutting down a project, both of which are critical success factors in my opinion.	2002-07-20
1469333:US	53037408	R2ZYRN3BNM7EE1	0738400149	772539277	Understanding LDAP (IBM Redbook)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Clearly written, vendor-neutral intro (a bit out of date)	One of the best kept secrets among consultants is IBM Redbooks cover many more topics than IBM products, and do so in a vendor-neutral manner.  This book is no exception - it provides a clearly written, unbiased description of LDAP from standards-based and practical implementation perspectives.<br />This book starts off with a chapter that explains the basics of directory services as an infrastructure component, how directory services have evolved, then focuses on LDAP in particular.  It then devotes chapters to concepts and architecture, designing and maintaining LDAP directories, building LDAP-enabled applications, and the future of LDAP.  Also included are excellent appendices that provide references to additional sources of LDAP information, LDAP products and services, API functions and error codes and other useful topics.<br />Highlights of this book are:<br />- Clear writing and little fluff.  The authors do not wander off topic and have carefully culled  relevant information and present it in a manner that flows from one topic to the next in a seamless and logical way.<br />- Covers all of the important topics: data models, physical design guidelines, security policies, migration planning, and manageability.<br />- Drills down into important details, such as LDAP URL APIs, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI), and example scenarios for small and large organizations.<br />- Remains vendor neutral throughout.  I was particularly impressed by APpendix B (LDAP Products and Services), in which other vendor offerings were given the same comprehensive and honest assessment as IBM's offerings).<br />Note that this book is somewhat light on LDAP version 3, which makes the material in the chapter on building LDAP enabled applications less than complete.  However, from a high-level perspective this book remains one of the clearest and best written for defining LDAP and how it can be used as an important component of an enterprise infrastructure.	2002-07-20
1469655:US	53037408	R2XRS71KZL25HK	0078823900	443280345	Oracle8 Tuning (Oracle Press Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Complete coverage of tuning for new &amp; experienced DBAs	There is a wealth of information in this book for both new and experienced DBAs.  For the new DBA the book presents a panoramic view of database tuning that begins with installing a new instance, coverage of each facet of tuning, and putting it all together as a holistic approach.  Experienced DBAs will probably discover that they already know most of the techniques; however, having them collected in a single book that systematically addresses each facet of the tuning process makes for a useful reference.<br />What I especially like about this book is the collection of rules that are on almost every page. These would have been even more useful if they were repeated in an appendix and cross-referenced to the chapters in which they appear.  This would allow DBAs to skim through the rules, then jump to the applicable chapter and drill down into the details. I also like the chapter on Other Database Issues. Even experienced DBAs will discover something new in that chapter.<br />Some parts of book are irritatingly redundant - the authors state a rule or fact, then restate it again a few paragraphs later.  This does not, in my opinion, diminish the overall value of the book, although it can slow you down when you're concentrating on a specific topic.<br />I found that the best way to read this book for maximum benefit is to do a pass from start to finish with a yellow highlighter.  This approach allows you to tag information that may be new to focus upon during the second pass through the book.  Also note that the book is true to its title - it thoroughly covers tuning, but only touches upon capacity planning, which is closely related and often included in similar books.  This is not a criticism of the book (after all, the title is accurate), but to inform potential readers of what's actually covered.	2002-07-19
1476193:US	53037408	R3FEK1VAOBPAKZ	0070479097	668266883	Handbook of Material and Capacity Requirements Planning	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Keys to understanding ERP	Although this book is focused on material and capacity requirements planning from an MRP perspective, the information directly translates into ERP, making this book essential reading for anyone, business- or technically-oriented, in ERP.  The reason is the techniques, issues and factors that this book covers are the same for either environment.<br />First, this book thoroughly describes materials management, workflow and production capacity, and does so in a clear manner.  I especially appreciate the fact that the authors take pains to define and explain every term and concept that they introduce.  This is a refreshing change from many book in which assumptions about the reader's knowledge is made, which often leads to frustration or misunderstanding.  It also removes any ambiguity and ensures that terms that can have multiple meaning are placed into their proper context.<br />Second, some of the material is out of date.  For example the cited limitations of MRP software applications that existed when this book was written in 1993 have long since been rectified in the newer ERP packages from SAP, Baan and J.D. Edwards.  However, even in the obviously out-of-date sections of this book are hidden gems, such as the Class ABCD System that was first developed by Oliver Wright as a means of classifying the maturity of MRP implementations based on answers to a 35 question checklist.  This checklist can be applied with virtually no modification to ERP systems. Other gems include the way the authors distill major concepts into their salient points, such as TQM, and show how they relate to MRP, again, the same comparisons can be applied to ERP.<br />The best thing about this book, however, is the detailed treatment of inventory control, materials requirements management, capacity planning and workflow - all of which are as integral to ERP as they are to the older MRP systems that this book describes.  As you read this book you will gain an intimate knowledge of how everything works and fits together instead of a high-level conceptual understanding.  That, in my opinion, is the best reason to get this book and thoroughly read it.  In addition to this book I also recommend &quot;Manufacturing Data Structures: Building Foundations for  Excellence With Bills of Materials and Process Information&quot; by Jerry Clement, John Sari  and Andy Coldrick.  That book adds the information systems perspective that is based on modern ERP systems and seamlessly augments the material in this book.works and fits together instead of a high-level conceptual understanding.  That, in my opinion, is the best reason to get this book and thoroughly read it.  In addition to this book I also recommend &quot;Manufacturing Data Structures: Building Foundations for  Excellence With Bills of Materials and Process Information&quot; by Jerry Clement, John Sari  and Andy Coldrick.  That book adds the information systems perspective that is based on modern ERP systems and seamlessly augments the material in this book.	2002-07-14
1476295:US	53037408	RKNGHOTVYS9OF	0471412589	252381438	Computer Security Handbook	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Covers all IS Security Critical Success Factors	This book is an anthology of carefully selected papers by experts in their respective knowledge areas.  The organization of the papers is consistent with the basic principle of security - layered security in depth, and covers management responsibility, basic safeguards, and physical and technical protection, and special issues.<br />What makes this book such a valuable reference is the care with which the editors chose topics.  Each topic area is a critical success factor to implementing and managing an effective security posture, and I especially like the inclusion of papers on &quot;Policies, Standards and Procedures&quot; and &quot;Legal Issues in Computer Security&quot; in the section devoted to Management Responsibility.  The paper on risk management in this section is also excellent.<br />The section on basic safeguards actually goes beyond the domain of IS security by addressing disaster recovery (this discipline is independent of IS security, but is closely related), and cross functional topics, such as auditing and application controls. These topics are the core of IS security and I was pleased to see them included in the form of exceptionally well written, in-depth papers.<br />Other highlights, in my opinion, are &quot;Security of Computer Data, Records, and Forms&quot; (an often overlooked, but critical element of IS security), and &quot;Outside Services&quot;.  Both of these papers show the width and depth of the topics covered in this excellent book.  If you are an IS security manager this book is an essential desk reference, and it is also useful to anyone managing production support and service delivery functions, or tasked with vendor management.  In my opinion this is one of the best IS security references available and I highly recommend it.	2002-07-14
1476446:US	53037408	R65CC5UOHTDWX	1558604154	570494611	Principles of Transaction Processing for the Systems Professional (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Clearly written, understandable intro to a complex subject	Transaction processing is a daunting topic, and this is one of the few books that provides the basics in a clear, understandable manner without overwhelming the reader.  Most of the book is focused solely on transaction processing, but it touches on queuing as well, which makes it the ideal first book for anyone who is seeking details that extend beyond pure TP.<br />I like the way that the authors use real products to reinforce key points made throughout the book.  While some of the products are no longer mainstream (indeed, some were never mainstream), the fact that real world implementations are used makes the information realistic. If you are using CICS, MQSeries, Tuxedo or similar products this book will have even more value.  I also like the way difficult topics,  such as locking, high availability and database recovery are given entire chapters because these topics need to be thoroughly understood in order to completely understand transaction processing.<br />After reading this book you will be armed with sufficient knowledge to make intelligent choices in selecting the right approach for transaction processing in a system design, or to understand the nuts and bolts of any TPM that you are supporting. I also agree with Cem Kaner's earlier comments that this book is an ideal resource for software test professionals who need to understand the entire environment that they will be testing.  If you want to go deeper into TP, I recommend &quot;Transactional Information Systems: Theory, Algorithms, and the Practice of Concurrency Control&quot; by Gerhard Weikum and Gottfried Vossen, which drills much further down into the details of both transaction processing and queuing systems.	2002-07-14
1485452:US	53037408	R2X8440KWXGMCV	1567260985	100945361	IT Project Management Handbook	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Unique collection of contextual and practical info	This book doesn't seem to fit the mold of any other PM book I've read.  Although it's written as an end-to-end book by two authors, it is nearly an anthology in the scope and range of topics.  The structure and sequence doesn't appear designed to teach project management.  On the other hand, the techniques and processes presented are solid and reflect best practices in IT project management.<br />Section I starts out like any PM book by covering IT's unique environment and project management processes that align to it. This is one of the strongest sections because it covers project planning and estimating in detail.  The chapter on estimating techniques and tools is especially good, as is the chapter on quality control.  Section II follows with excellent material on risk management, best practices standards and system measurement techniques. This section also covers popular PM software applications, including Project Kickstart and MS Project, as well as other tools that are commonly used to plan, schedule and control IT projects.<br />It's in Section III where the book abruptly shifts direction.  The chapters in this section cover network management and internet applications, and distributed objects and associated technology.  While these are certainly topics that IT project managers need to understand, this section breaks the logical sequencing that was presented in the preceding sections.  Despite this, the material does portray the challenges faced by IT project managers, and gives excellent advice for dealing with them.  The wireless case study at the end of this section reinforces all of the key points that the authors make in the first three sections.<br />Section IV focuses on requirements and design, and, like Sections I through III, contain an abundant amount of information that represents best practices and sound PM methods.<br />Material that I particularly like include the focus on customer satisfaction (especially the approach to acceptance criteria), earned value, and project recovery methods.  If you want a book from which to learn IT project management you may want to look elsewhere.  However, if you're an experienced IT project manager you'll find this book to be full of techniques and information.  In spite of the problematic structure I find myself referring to it frequently and have made it one of my primary references.arned value, and project recovery methods.  If you want a book from which to learn IT project management you may want to look elsewhere.  However, if you're an experienced IT project manager you'll find this book to be full of techniques and information.  In spite of the problematic structure I find myself referring to it frequently and have made it one of my primary references.	2002-07-06
1486076:US	53037408	R18SB1YHEONC85	0849308097	511090462	Software Testing: A Craftsman's Approach, Second Edition	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Focused on techniques and on doing them right	Books on software testing fall into two basic categories: (1) those that deal with the test process and (2) those that deal with the actual techniques.  Most of the more recent books fall into the first category; although there is some degree of crossover in many of the books. This book, however, deals strictly with techniques.  The author doesn't dwell on the process or the associated administrative tasks, although he does touch upon them.<br />Techniques are presented within the context of formal mathematics.  This isn't because the material is academic - it's all based on realistic testing scenarios - but, instead, provides you with proven and effective techniques for testing software in a systematic manner.  Because many testers have not been exposed to the formal techniques and underlying math, the first section covers the basics: discrete math, set theory and graph theory. Once you've mastered the basics, which are heavily used in the chapters that address the actual techniques, you'll have all the knowledge that you need to go forward.<br />The remainder of the book is divided into four sections, each of which covers a specific type of testing.  These types are: functional, structural, integration and system, and object-oriented testing. For each there are two to three techniques, plus a retrospective on the section that ties everything together.  Also, issues and factors associated with each test type, as well as testing in the whole are discussed, giving you a complete picture of the full suite of testing categories.<br />Overall, this book is well written and illustrated, but requires effort to get through.  This isn't a criticism of the author, who did an outstanding job of conveying information and clearly explaining complex concepts and topics, but reflects the depth of the material.  In my opinion a copy of this book should be among the top five in any serious software test professional's library.	2002-07-05
1486273:US	53037408	R2QCIENUW0TYM2	1558605088	809765761	Transactional Information Systems: Theory, Algorithms, and the Practice of Concurrency Control and Recovery (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Up-to-date ... sends an old friend into semi-retirement	Before this book was published my primary reference and personal favorite TP book was &quot;Transaction Processing: Concepts and Techniques&quot; by Jim Gray and Andreas Reuter. At over 1100 pages that book thoroughly covered the basics and drilled down into the nuances of transaction processing in a way unmatched by other books on the topic since it was first published in 1993.<br />This book changes that by going far beyond transaction processing.  It starts with the same fundamentals as the older book, and even covers many of the same topics, such as concurrency control, but it addresses each topic from a much wider perspective.  For example, the discussion of concurrency goes far beyond the issues of transaction processing as a middleware component.  It extends into application, database and search issues.  Another indication that this book is more up-to-date is the material on queue managers.  While they are at the opposite end of the spectrum from transaction processing monitors, they are integral to any discussion of transactional information systems.  More importantly, both transaction processing monitors and queue managers are used in modern enterprise architectures.  Having both topics discussed in great detail is a major point in this book's favor.<br />Personally I intend to keep my copy of the older &quot;Transaction Processing: Concepts and Techniques&quot; because it does cover some of the subject matter more deeply.  However, this book has replaced it as my principal reference and if I had to choose between them this is the one I'd go with.	2002-07-05
1486331:US	53037408	R3A4E1TKFEW3ZL	0201741296	992504494	Database Administration: The Complete Guide to Practices and Procedures	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Comprehensive, thorough and unique	This book has three things going for it:<br />(1) It describes the DBA function as it exists in the real world.  More importantly, it breaks the categories of \\"DBA\\" out into specialities, such as system DBA, data architect, analysts and modelers, developers and data warehouse DBAs - each speciality is vastly different in practice - and provides skill profiles and roles and responsibilities for each.<br /><br />(2) Proposes an organizational structure for all DBAs, regardless of database (DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, etc.) and skill.  As a consultant who specializes in IT organizational management and processes I heartily endorse this structure.  It's also consistent with recommendations made in \\"IT Organization: Building A Worldclass Infrastructure \\" by Harris Kern, Stuart Galup and Guy Nemiro, and \\"Building Operational Excellence: Strategies to Improve It People and Processes\\" by Dale Kutnick and Bruce Allen.<br /><br />(3) A complete and comprehensive listing of tasks and responsibilities for DBAs, ranging from creating the database environment to data warehouse administration, and everything in between (data modelling, performance and capacity management, tuning, back-up and recovery, etc.)<br /><br />While achieving the recommendations for organizational structure is a daunting and complex task, assimilating the extensive list of tasks and recommendations can be accomplished quickly.  One way to attain immediate value from this book at the organizational level is to derive database administration policies and processes from this book, and refer to this book for the procedures.<br /><br />The ideal audience for this book includes IT managers who need to understand the complexity and scope of the DBA function under their cognizance, senior DBAs who want to implement consistent procedures, and HR specialists who develop job descriptions and recruit DBAs.	2002-07-05
1486514:US	53037408	R16GVFVQ2OOP9P	157870264X	543461091	Writing Information Security Policies	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Brings best practices to small companies	What makes this book an important addition to the IT security body of knowledge is that it makes a case for, and shows how to, create and implement IT security policies in small-to-medium enterprises.<br />The book itself is a short, somewhat superficial, treatment of IT security policies.  It has strengths and weaknesses:<br />STRENGTHS:  It makes a compelling business case for having IT security policies, then leads you through the creation of the more common ones. This material is augmented by the book's accompanying web site that provides all of the sample policies in Appendix C in HTML format (most modern word processing programs, such as MS Word can convert this to their native format without losing any of the embedded styles).  Note that the URL given in the book has changed, but it is still active and automatically redirects you to the new URL.<br />In addition, the book touches on important topics that you may not think of if you're attempting to develop policies on your own. For example, intellectual property rights, law enforcement issues and forensics.  These are touched upon, but will raise your awareness of their importance.<br />WEAKNESSES:  The actual development and maintenance of policies is almost an afterthought.  Moreover, I thought that a structured approach to threat and vulnerability assessments should have been covered (to be fair, the author discusses major threats on practically every page).  I also felt that the policies should have been linked to processes, which is the hallmark of a well written policy, and the importance of clearly defining roles and responsibilities should have been highlighted.  I recommend that readers also get a copy of Steve Pages \\"  Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures\\" (ISBN 1929065493) to supplement this book.  Page's book is focused solely on policies and procedures development, and will fill in the gaps left in this book.<br />Overall, this book deserves recognition for raising awareness of the importance of IT security policies to small companies.  It also deserves credit for sticking to the fundamentals (cited weaknesses notwithstanding), without overwhelming small enterprise IT professionals who are probably wearing many hats besides IT security.  For that audience this book shows the way, and earns my praise.aising awareness of the importance of IT security policies to small companies.  It also deserves credit for sticking to the fundamentals (cited weaknesses notwithstanding), without overwhelming small enterprise IT professionals who are probably wearing many hats besides IT security.  For that audience this book shows the way, and earns my praise.	2002-07-05
1486538:US	53037408	R30BKFI9SOJYPF	0735711178	71839614	ebXML: The New Global Standard for Doing Business on the Internet	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Clear and in-depth description of ebXLM (and XML)	This book doesn't purport to cover programming.  Instead it is a comprehensive guide that describes ebXML from business and technical perspectives, and does so is such a clear, well written manner that it deserves 5 stars.  If you're more interested in writing ebXML applications you may want &quot;ebXML Simplified&quot; by Eric Chiu (ISBN 0471204757), which shows how and provides sample code.<br />What I most like about this book is the way the authors manage to integrate the technical details with the business value of ebXML without going over the heads of business users or talking down to IT professionals.  I also like the fact that the book is kept up to date on the companion web site, and the additional information that is provided there to supplement what is covered in the book.<br />The highlights, in my opinion, are:<br />Chapter 2, ebXML in a nutshell.  This chapter uses clear prose and illustrations to portray ebXML, how it fits into an enterprise solution, and all of the underpinnings.  If you only read these 30 pages you'll come away with a solid understanding of what it is and how it works. The next chapter, ebXML at Work, takes this material a step further with case studies that are realistic.<br />All of Part II, which shows how ebXML fits into the much larger XML picture (including an interesting history of XML and how it evolved from SGML).  History aside, this section ties together a number of related technologies, such as Java, XML, HTML and platforms.  In fact, the four legs of a table metaphor that the authors use is one of the most elegant depictions of the interrelationships I've seen.  They don't stay at high level, however.  The book drills down into DTDs, and also does an excellent job of describing the business processes and technical architecture in terms that anyone can grasp.  I especially liked the way UML and use cases were introduced.<br />If you want a book that describes ebXML (and in a larger sense, XML) from business and technical perspectives this is the one to read.perspectives this is the one to read.	2002-07-05
1486569:US	53037408	R2MT9DPA0U3JPA	0471203351	646713049	Financial Crime Investigation and Control	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Applicable to more than auditors & compliance professionals	This is one of the few books about auditing and compliance that is written for general business managers instead of auditors.  To be sure, the material represents an excellent training tool for auditors and compliance specialists who need to develop a company-wide awareness program as one tier in a comprehensive initiative.  However, the main message in the book, and the approach it presents, is based on the fact that the responsibility for deterring fraud extends well beyond auditing and compliance.  Indeed, the most effective deterrent is an aware management and workforce that is vigilant at all levels.<br />Three objectives of this book are:  (1) serve as a primer on financial fraud, its impact on organizations and common exposures, and (2), give mangers who may not be trained in auditing guidance and techniques to investigate fraud if they find themselves tasked with doing so (a particularly common occurrence in small-to-medium businesses), (3) provide a comprehensive framework for detecting, investigating and dealing with fraud.<br />The full range of topics are covered and are presented without the professional auditing and compliance jargon, which makes it easy for general business professionals to understand.  I like the way the authors addressed ethics, and especially like the chapter on whistleblowing (see \\"Merrill Lynch: The Cost Could Be Fatal\\" by Keith A. Schooley for a realistic view of how tricky this can be for all parties).  In addition, I thought that the integrated approach that defines clearly articulated policies and procedures, and roles and responsibilities for all stakeholders is a critical success factor to making it all work.  The reason is, like security, fraud control requires a defense in depth that depends on no single element of that defense.  I also found the two appendices (A-Forensic Statement Analysis and B-An Introduction to Data Mining as a Fraud Risk Management Tool) invaluable.<br />For whom will this book be most useful?  Managers, regardless of functional area or specialty, will gain insights into causes and steps to prevent fraud. It will also provide basic tools for investigating suspected fraud.<br />Professional auditors or compliance specialists will find a viable approach to developing and implementing a company-wide initiative that will significantly reduce fraud.<br />Corporate and IT security specialists will find a wealth of material that will support their own detection, investigation and action procedures, especially for the IT security specialist who is trained in forensics.agers, regardless of functional area or specialty, will gain insights into causes and steps to prevent fraud. It will also provide basic tools for investigating suspected fraud.  <br />Professional auditors or compliance specialists will find a viable approach to developing and implementing a company-wide initiative that will significantly reduce fraud. <br />Corporate and IT security specialists will find a wealth of material that will support their own detection, investigation and action procedures, especially for the IT security specialist who is trained in forensics.	2002-07-05
1486879:US	53037408	R2VNTUYH2NQDCO	0130659037	499407363	Capacity Planning for Web Services: Metrics, Models, and Methods	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Old friend gets facelift and becomes more beautiful	Although the title is new, this book is based on the authors' 1998 book titled &quot;Web PErformance Metrics, Models and Methods (ISBN 0136938221).  This book is more than a minor rewrite - the chapters are in a different sequence, and each has been updated.  None of the information that made the older book such a valuable resource was lost in the process.  For example, the material on queuing theory and analysis remains, and it among the best written tutorials in print.  What has changed includes:<br />(1) Shifting of focus from client/server and web server environments to web services, with an emphasis on performance characteristics of SOAP and UDDI.  Client server issues are still covered because these issues are still germane.<br />(2)  An emphasis on architecture and how performance and capacity fit into a larger picture. Network and server performance characteristics are examined in detail.<br />What hasn't changed includes the excellent material on performance and benchmarking basics, detailed analysis techniques, and the support for this book that the authors provide on the book's web site.  I especially like the Excel spreadsheets that you can download to use in conjunction with material in nearly every chapter.<br />Overall, this is one more of a series of books on various aspects of performance and capacity management.  I also recommend reading their companion book, &quot;Scaling for E-Business: Technologies, Models, Performance, and Capacity Planning&quot; (ISBN 0130863289), which covers the applications level of e-commerce systems and seamlessly complements the material in this book.	2002-07-05
1487078:US	53037408	RF5EE6QO9Q1ID	0130675237	571710372	Spreadsheet Modeling in Corporate Finance (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Excellent learning tool	Although intended as a supplement for textbooks used in college level business courses, this book is also valuable to working professionals who deal with financial modeling.  Because I am a consultant and project manager I'm going to slant this review towards how my peers will benefit from the book.  It's value outside of my narrow scope should be apparent.<br />First, unlike other books that teach spreadsheet modeling, the spreadsheets that come on the CD ROM are not finished products. Instead the author has chosen spreadsheets that use dynamic charts to illustrate concepts in an interactive manner (drag a control to change the parameters and the chart changes - this is a powerful teaching tool in or out of the classroom).<br />Second, the book needs to be read in sequence because spreadsheets you build in one chapter are the basis for refinements and added complexity in later chapters. This leads to highly complex spreadsheets, such as the model in chapter 16 (Life-Cycle Financial Planning), which incorporates tax parameters (federal and state levels), benefits analysis and other factors.<br />In all there are 53 spreadsheets presented in this book, and you build them.  The author calls this &quot;active learning&quot; (as opposed to passive learning where you are provided templates), and it is effective because you are the one who builds the models and tools while following the book.  Note that this book does NOT purport to teach Excel programming, but how to build models using Excel's basic features and functions.<br />As a consultant and project manager the parts of this book that were immediately useful to me were: Parts I (Time Value of Money), III (Capital Budgeting) and IV (Financial Planning). In particular, project management requires a thorough understanding of time value of money and capital budgeting, and the chapters in these sections should be read by anyone who is assigned as a project manager.  Financial planning, especially from the perspective of IT asset management, is another knowledge area in which IT consultants should be well versed.<br />The other parts of the book (II Valuation and V Options and Corporate Finance) will be more useful to finance professionals and general business managers. There is a collection of supporting material on the author's web site that augment this book, including spreadsheets that can be downloaded. Another plus for the working professional is the book is fast-paced and, dare I say, engrossing.of IT asset management, is another knowledge area in which IT consultants should be well versed.<br />The other parts of the book (II Valuation and V Options and Corporate Finance) will be more useful to finance professionals and general business managers. There is a collection of supporting material on the author's web site that augment this book, including spreadsheets that can be downloaded. Another plus for the working professional is the book is fast-paced and, dare I say, engrossing.	2002-07-05
1487121:US	53037408	R2NPT50AOSCR1	0596001231	594798110	Building Java Enterprise Applications, Vol. 1: Architecture (O'Reilly Java)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Useful to me at the time	I bought this book specifically because it used building an LDAP solution to illustrate how to build Java applications. It fulfilled my expectations in that regard because the material went deep into details. If your sole goal was to learn LDAP and how to employ it as an enterprise solution this book would be worth its weight in gold. However, it also exceeded my expectations in every other respect.<br /><br />First, the author's approach reflects the best practices in software engineering - not merely development. Interwoven throughout are reuse, architecture first approach, business considerations, and a wealth of material on data modeling.<br /><br />Second, every facet of enterprise application development is addressed, including performance issues, deployment and support considerations and each layer in a typical architecture.<br /><br />This book will give you all of the technical details necessary to build enterprise-wide Java applications, as well as provide you with excellent advice on software engineering and enterprise architectures. SInce this book follows a storyline, I'm eagerly awaiting the other volumes that are supposed to follow this one.	2002-07-05
1488371:US	53037408	R13C911WJUB0C0	0970746504	249974027	Automated Testing Handbook	Books	5	15	16	N	N	First mainstream book on the subject and still important	When this slender book was first published mainstream software test automation was like the weather - everyone talked about it, but nobody seemed to be doing anything about it.  The author is a pioneer in software test automation, and wisely wrote a book that still has something valid to say seven years after it was first published.<br />What you'll get from this book is a clear and complete description of key characteristics and features to look for in an automated test suite.  Although one would think that every test group has been automated by now, that is sadly not the case, and this book will give you the foundation for the business case for implementation.<br />Parts that I especially like (and which every test manager should read) deal with the critical success factors for test management, including maintaining a test dictionary, managing the testing artifact library, and change and version control. These functions are essential to any well run test organization, regardless of whether the organization is automated or using manual methods. However, the emphasis on them reinforce your case for automation because manual methods are more prone to errors and are significantly more labor intensive.<br />I also like the clear explanation of the test automation process and the elements and activities that are associated.  If you mentally compare your testing organization against this process you will get many ideas for improvements, as well as form a vision for an encompassing testing process - even if it will remain manual.  The final part of the book deals with defect tracking, metrics and reporting.  This material describes best practices in both manual and automated organizations, and is as valid today as it was when this book was first written seven years ago.<br />While there are more modern books on the subject, they go too far into details for readers who need to quickly get up to speed on the key points.  This book does that. When you're ready for a more in-depth book I recommend &quot;Automated Software Testing: Introduction, Management, and Performance&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka and John Paul.n-depth book I recommend &quot;Automated Software Testing: Introduction, Management, and Performance&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka and John Paul.	2002-07-03
1488604:US	53037408	RA5WZ2WX6PSD1	0749424842	869451277	Make Things Happen (Quest Toolbox Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Even if you know the material you'll probably love it	I rarely get excited about a book that has information that I've already mastered, but this is an exception, and here are the reasons why:<br />- It's a short guide to the essential tools that will assure success if they are all used in  planning, scheduling and controlling a project.  In this respect the book is a memory jogger and sanity check.<br />- Each tool is succinctly, but thoroughly, covered.  The format is: What it is, How it's used and an example.  The copious use of graphics and the clear writing result in a small page count that is crammed with information.<br />- It epitomizes great document design. Like all consultants I spend a lot of time writing and communicating.  This book is the standard to which I compare my own work, and I appreciate the , thought and effort that went into writing and laying out this book.  It may look simple, but I assure you that the design alone is a masterpiece.<br />Even though I know the material the book has valid uses beyond serving as a model of technical writing. One use is to convey to team members (and stakeholders) the value of the techniques and tools that you're using to manage the project. Instead of spending valuable time drafting explanations, simply hand them a copy of this small book, or borrow heavily from it and throw together a presentation.  Another use is to use this book as both a framework and checklist during the project planning phase.<br />The book is divided into eight sections.  Section 1 is an overview that depicts project management as a process and superimposes the Plan-Do-Check-Act quality cycle on the process. This guides you in planning a project within the context of a quality-focused framework, and the potential pitfalls and prevention checklist in this section adds depth to the overview.  The remaining seven sections list tools that you'll use in each process stage:  project selection, selection and contract, planning, implement, monitor progress, and complete and review.  The final section covers tools for managing multiple projects, such as resource loading and monitoring.  The acid test is to assess whether the tools are appropriate and reflect best practices.  The book passes with flying colors, and I am basing this opinion on the content of the planning section. It contains all of the key tools used in proper project planning, including work breakdown structures, responsibility charts, cost breakdown structures, critical path analysis and contingency plans.<br />Regardless of your level of expertise or experience you'll appreciate this book.  If your budget allows a copy for every key member of your project team I predict a substantial return on your investment.section covers tools for managing multiple projects, such as resource loading and monitoring.  The acid test is to assess whether the tools are appropriate and reflect best practices.  The book passes with flying colors, and I am basing this opinion on the content of the planning section. It contains all of the key tools used in proper project planning, including work breakdown structures, responsibility charts, cost breakdown structures, critical path analysis and contingency plans. <br />Regardless of your level of expertise or experience you'll appreciate this book.  If your budget allows a copy for every key member of your project team I predict a substantial return on your investment.	2002-07-03
1488996:US	53037408	R2A5QJSHUCPYSB	1567261353	5027508	Effective Work Breakdown Structures (The Project Management Essential Ibrary Series)	Books	5	73	73	N	N	Decisions ... decisions ...	Of the three books that focus solely on work breakdown structures this is the most complete. The other two are &quot;Nuts and Bolts Series 1--How to Build a Work Breakdown Structure&quot; by Carl L. Pritchard, and &quot;Project Management Institute Practice Standard for Work Breakdown Structures&quot;.  The burning question is how do they compare and which is best.  For a no-nonsense and pragmatic book the &quot;Nuts and Bolts Series&quot; book wins. It has the distinction of being the first book on the subject, and is one that I used as a reference for the past 4 years.  If you are planning to certify as a PMP, your best bet is the PMI Practice Standard, because you're sure to encounter exam questions that are based on that book.  However, if you want a comprehensive book that covers every facet of principles and practice, this is the book to get.<br />What sets this one apart from the other two (all other factors being equal) is the clearer descriptions of the principles, and the checklists.  I also like the way that the author goes deeper into details about how to align the WBS to various project types (product-, service- and results-oriented projects), and the more complete life cycle view that this book provides.  As an aside, a results-oriented project, previously mentioned, is a project such as organizational change management, which doesn't produce a tangible deliverable in the same manner as, for example, a software development project does.<br />To put into context the comparison among the three books, I favor this one because of personal preferences.  Each merits, in my opinion, equal value, and any of the three will give you the knowledge necessary to develop a work breakdown structure.	2002-07-03
1489066:US	53037408	R2THSM1K7KWAH1	0201877562	644335630	Software Testing In The Real World: Improving The Process	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A wealth of vaulable material packed into a 252 page book	The title of this excellent book is appropriate with respect to real world issues are addressed.  It's unfortunate that the real world rarely reflects what's in this book, but that is offset by the good fortune that you can establish and manage a mature, effective test organization by following the well thought out advice that the author provides.  Since other reviewers have highlighted many of this book's key strengths I am going to touch upon what I like most and why.<br />First, the author doesn't confine himself to testing in a vacuum - he gives a framework that recognizes the dependencies between and among other software engineering processes, such as configuration management, issue management and how testing fits within the development life cycle.<br />Second, the underlying themes are risk management, cost containment and metrics.<br />Chapters that I especially like are 1, the six essentials of software testing (in many respects this is the heart of the book and everything else is commentary), 5, critical choices: what, when and how to test (these are the eternal questions of software testing - the answers given are on the mark), and 10, testing tasks, deliverables and chronology (a deliverables-based approach is the only viable way to plan and estimate realistically in my opinion).<br />While the above are my personal favorites, that does not diminish the value of the rest of the book.  They merely reflect parts of this book that most influenced me.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough - it's realistic, covers all of the important issues, and if you're like me you'll find yourself reaching for it when you have an issue to resolve or want to borrow a best practice.	2002-07-03
1489144:US	53037408	R1RZ1UZ7ISDBHQ	3540669833	716682660	Inter-organizational Cooperation with SAP Solutions: Design and Management of Supply Networks (SAP Excellence)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Focused on the topic and practical - highly recommended	This book's primary audience consists of SAP consultants and IT business systems analysts, and the ideal secondary audience should consist of  business process owners in an R/3 environment, IT managers in all functional areas who are involved with developing, implementing and supporting supply chain and extended logistics solutions.<br />The theme is logistics management, using SAP, in an extended supply chain or a corporate hub and their vendors.  There are three key sub themes in the book:  (1) an explanation of the business benefits of extending buyer-seller systems in an extended supply chain (with an emphasis on using the Internet as the communications infrastructure), (2) specifics on how to accomplish this using SAP, and (3) evidence that it can be done.<br />I like the practical approach taken by the authors - instead of succumbing to the temptation to careen off into blue sky solutions, they stick with what can be done in the here and now.  Although it's almost blasphemy to discuss EDI when everyone else seems to be hyping web services and other approaches and solutions that are relatively new, the authors show the strengths and weaknesses of this proven approach. They also discuss the strengths and weaknesses of XML, although ebXML is curiously missing. The reason its absence is so curious is that the EC appears to be wholeheartedly embracing it, and this book has a distinct European bias, especially in the chosen case studies.<br />More importantly, though, this book goes into the details SAP's internet components and how they relate to other modules that support logistics and supply chain management for an enterprise. The details go well beyond technology - this book gives equal treatment to business and technical issues, and that is one of the reasons why it's so valuable to the primary and secondary audiences I cited above. Although I thought ebXML should have been covered in depth, I found this book to be complete and to realistically cover the topic's key issues.c's key issues.	2002-07-03
1489220:US	53037408	R1TF5096IGJH6X	0471392014	756352694	ERP: Making It Happen: The Implementers' Guide to Success with Enterprise Resource Planning	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Complete focus on what's important: processes and management	If you're exploring an enterprise-wide solution, even if it isn't an ERP package, or are planning an implementation after the software has already been selected this book will prove invaluable.  Unlike other books about ERP (and e-business and enterprise application integration for that matter), this one is focused on the business processes and what it takes to prepare for and manage the implementation.<br />Of course, while much of this book applies at a high level to any enterprise application, it is all about ERP.  The authors take great pains to avoid talking about software, which in itself is refreshing.  They also skillfully guide you through a panorama of key issues, including what ERP is and how it fits into the overall scheme of business value and competitiveness.  However, the best part of this book is their implementation strategy, which explores how an ERP package is going to require changes at the business process level, how to break down the implementation into manageable stages.  In this respect the book is a combination of a management overview of ERP, organizational change strategies, and project management approach to implementation.<br />The key areas addressed by this book reflect reality.  For example, all of the major challenges that you're likely to face are addressed.  The critical success factors, such as training, preparing the organization for the system (from a people perspective), and the way the implementation phases are sequenced can either be learned from this book, or learned the hard way (which is sure to include schedule and cost overruns at best and a disaster at worst). In particular, the process-oriented approach that is reiterated throughout the book needs to be heeded.  This is the essence of any ERP package, and it will change your organization.  This book gives good advice on how to effect the shift from discrete jobs and procedures to a workflow.<br />In addition to this excellent book I highly recommend two other resources:  (1) &quot;Scorecard System For World Class Enterprise Resource Management&quot; by Travis Anderegg, which is a unique book/online survey combination you can use to evaluate the alignment of your ERP system to business processes, and (2) &quot;Enterprise Resource Planning Systems: Systems, Life Cycle, Electronic Commerce, and Risk&quot; by Daniel Edmund O'Leary.  O'Leary's book completely complements this one and fills in a few gaps.rces:  (1) &quot;Scorecard System For World Class Enterprise Resource Management&quot; by Travis Anderegg, which is a unique book/online survey combination you can use to evaluate the alignment of your ERP system to business processes, and (2) &quot;Enterprise Resource Planning Systems: Systems, Life Cycle, Electronic Commerce, and Risk&quot; by Daniel Edmund O'Leary.  O'Leary's book completely complements this one and fills in a few gaps.	2002-07-03
1491100:US	53037408	R1KHUR3BOJ1L11	0471894893	292173069	Soft Systems Methodology: Conceptual Model Building and Its Contribution	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Well written and informative introduction to SSM	Soft Systems Methodology (SSM) is an offshoot of systems thinking and has its roots in Peter Checkland's seminal 1981 book, &quot;Systems Thinking, Systems Practice&quot; (now out of print).  This book shows how to apply SSM to the problem sets for which it was designed: the unpredictable behavior of human actions, which are often counter to the logic we apply to &quot;hard&quot; problems such as computer systems behavior and other systems that follow predictable laws of physics.<br />As a consultant who aligns information systems to business processes this book provided me with a streamlined approach to dealing with the human factor, especially organizational politics and resistance to change - both of which I routinely deal with. The approach is reasonably straightforward, and involves the following steps:<br />- Frame the problem and surrounding situation<br />- Use 'rich pictures' portray the situation. A 'rich picture' is an informal rendering, and should capture issues and thinking, systems and interactions.<br />- Develop a root definitions and perspectives from which to view the situation (Clients, Actors, Transformations, World-view and Environment). A 'root definition' is a process that transforms  an input into an output - a typical process flow.<br />- Build a conceptual model of what the system to remedy the problem or situation needs to accomplish.  The basis of the conceptual model is human activity.<br />- Compare the model to the ideal, examine alternatives and select the best option.<br />- Design and implement the system or solution.<br />The approach taken by the author is to provide the knowledge needed to employ SSM in a sequence of chapters that lead you through models and methodology, the principles of human activity modeling, system selection, business process reengineering issues, the consensus primary task model, the relationships to training and HR, and generic model building.<br />Consensus primary task model (CPTM) is a key element of the approach in this book and is crucial to successfully employing SSM, which, after all, is designed to deal with the ambiguities of people.  The CPTM is an aggregation of the conceptual models, which results in a 'strawman' model that is used to build consensus.  From this evolves into the agreed upon model and approach.<br />The key differences between the usual 'committee' approach and SSM are the structure and framework, ensuring that viewpoints are systematically examined, and the emphasis on consensus instead of compromise.  While the book makes SSM appear to be easy, which is a function of the author's clear writing, employing it in the real world requires training and discipline.  It's especially well suited to organizational change management projects as well as strategic planning.roach in this book and is crucial to successfully employing SSM, which, after all, is designed to deal with the ambiguities of people.  The CPTM is an aggregation of the conceptual models, which results in a 'strawman' model that is used to build consensus.  From this evolves into the agreed upon model and approach.<br />The key differences between the usual 'committee' approach and SSM are the structure and framework, ensuring that viewpoints are systematically examined, and the emphasis on consensus instead of compromise.  While the book makes SSM appear to be easy, which is a function of the author's clear writing, employing it in the real world requires training and discipline.  It's especially well suited to organizational change management projects as well as strategic planning.	2002-07-01
1491318:US	53037408	R89WBWSIU2V04	0824787625	374976003	Ensuring Software Reliability (Quality and Reliability)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Old, but contains unique information that's still valid	Despite this book's age and the subsequent software reliability books that have since been published, it adds a perspective and information that is either not in more recent books, or is not given the same comprehensive treatment.<br />If you are familiar with software reliability as a discipline and with any of the major books, such as John Musa's &quot;Software Reliability Engineered Testing&quot;, you'll probably not find anything new in Part I, although chapters 3 (software failures and failure processes), and 6 (reliability terms and definitions) add clear, succinct descriptions and definitions to these topics.<br />Part II, however, is where this book shines and why I use this book as one of my principal references.  Specifically, chapter 7, which covers software reliability data collection, is thorough and comprehensive.  I \especially like the way data collection is integrated into a reporting process, and the near exhaustive list of error, product and process metrics and their associated descriptions.  Chapter 8 is another gem.  It describes 12 major reliability models, ranging from Musa's models to predictive models.  One of the most interesting models in this catalog is the 'Leone Test Coverage Model', which is based upon percentage of completion and coverage of specific development and testing tasks.  For each model the author gives a summary description, provides assumptions and parameters of the model, and the associated math.  Each model's summary contains strengths and weaknesses, and when in the life cycle the model is best employed.<br />Overall, this book contains some invaluable information and information that has been superseded by newer books (especially the last chapters in Part II).  If you're seeking information that I've highlighted above, this book is a worthwhile investment.  If you're looking for a book that is more up-to-date I recommend &quot;Software Reliability Engineered Testing&quot; by John Musa.  This book will remain an often referenced part of my library for some time to come.eferenced part of my library for some time to come.	2002-07-01
1491388:US	53037408	R218ZIL802QTXY	0072193999	792066351	XML Security	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Slight vendor bias - excellent info + W3C spec coverage	Given the fact that XML is a key component of web services, and extensively used in e-commerce and enterprise applications integration, this book addresses a genuinely important topic.  For one reason, XML is text-based and can expose proprietary information, which is a vulnerability for competitive intelligence specialists and corporate spying.<br />Before going into what the book contains it's important to know that much of the material is based on RSA's view of the security.  This isn't a criticism, but an up-front statement of fact because if you're looking for a book that is 100% vendor neutral you are going to have to wait until one is written - this is the only book I know of that is solely about XML security.<br />The book starts with primers on security and XML to set the context.  It then covers, in succession, digital signatures (chapters 4, 5 and 6), and XML encryption.  These chapters are consistent with work and specifications produced by XML Signature WG (joint the Working Group IETF and W3C for digital signatures) and the W3C working group for XML Encryption.<br />Chapter 8 is specific to RSA products. It shows how to implement XML encryption using RSA BSAFE Cert-J, which can be downloaded in a trial version from RSA's website.  Chapter 9 covers XML key management specification, which are consistent with the W3C working group's specifications, and how XML security relates to web services.<br />Despite the slight bias towards RSA this book is an invaluable reference.  It provides an in-depth discussion of major security issues, as well as how they are being addressed by the W3C.  It goes without saying that anyone who is responsible for system architecture, design and/or security should carefully read this book.	2002-07-01
1492500:US	53037408	R1E1JG0H2SLYJS	0787958921	571648121	The New Project Management: Tools for an Age of Rapid Change, Complexity, and Other Business Realities	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The best book for org change &amp; reengineering projects	This second edition is a minor update to the original that was published in 1994. When the first edition was published business process reengineering was in vogue. Today we're still doing reengineering, but it goes by the moniker of &quot;organizational change management&quot;.  A rose by any other name; however, this book remains one of the only project management texts that stays focused on reengineering and organizational change projects while including traditional project planning, scheduling and control techniques.<br />What makes this book unique is the way the author tackles organizational politics head on, and the sage advice given to deal with it.  These comprise the main theme of Part I's first three chapters, which address the business environment, how to bring order out of chaos and engaging change. The final two chapters in Part I cover risk management and customer satisfaction - two main critical success factors for any project, but are especially important in organizational change projects.<br />Part II starts with a chapter that is boldly titled &quot;Acquiring Political Skills and Building Influence&quot; and segues into another topic that most PM books sidestep: &quot;Building Teams with Borrowed Resources&quot;.  If you've ever attempted employing matrix management or virtual teams you'll appreciate the advice given in this chapter.  The author also gives an excellent discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of self directed teams, which may be ideal in theory, but are not easy to achieve in practice. Chapter 8 in this part is a well written piece on project selection techniques, which reflects the author's approach that is better documented in a book that he coauthored titled &quot;The Project Office&quot;.<br />The remainder of the book is focused on traditional PM techniques, including estimating, outsourcing considerations, earned value (now part of the PMI PMBOK), and project metrics.<br />If you are involved in organizational change projects this book is the best resource because of the way it combines organizational change management with traditional PM techniques.ts this book is the best resource because of the way it combines organizational change management with traditional PM techniques.	2002-06-30
1492648:US	53037408	R2CEVDYQ1BKMEO	3540426329	763208663	Software Quality and Software Testing in Internet Times (High-tech Software Quality Management)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Anthology of articles on QA in rapid deployment environments	This book is a collection of papers that address the full spectrum of testing issues and challenges in rapid development/rapid deployment environments.  Although the title implies that this book is about quality and testing of web applications, many of the papers go well beyond that narrow scope.<br />The papers are divided into five categories:<br />(1) Managing for Optimal Time to Market.  This categories contains an obligatory paper on high-speed web testing, which does address the key challenges.  However, two of the papers are exceptional:  Using QA for Risk Management in Web Projects drives home the relationship between QA and project risk, and Establishing Quality Procedures for Incremental Software Development is essential reading for anyone who needs to integrate testing into methodologies such as the Rational Unified Process or any other incremental/rapid development approach.<br />(2) Processes.  This section of the book has papers covering topics ranging from how to use Extreme Programming to manage project risks to adapting test processes to web applications.  In many respects the papers in this section capture the essence of the book's theme.<br />(3) Testing from the User's Perspective. This is my favorite section, especially the papers on business oriented testing for e-commerce and the paper titled &quot;Strategic Testing: Focus on the Business&quot;.  All of the material here reinforces my own experience and observations, and clearly shows the relationships among meeting business requirements, quality and project success.<br /><br />(4) Technical Testing.  Test professionals will get the most from this section because it provides techniques.  My favorite is &quot;Securing E-Business&quot; because this important aspect of testing is usually given superficial treatment (if it's covered at all) in most testing books. Another paper I liked in this section is &quot;The Back-End Side of Web Testing: Integration of Legacy Systems&quot;, which is applicable to enterprise application integration and e-business system testing.  In addition to papers on testing techniques, other aspects of quality are covered in this section, such as performance monitoring (more aligned to capacity planning and performance management than testing, but certainly applicable to quality and service level management).<br />(5) Test Automation Techniques and Tools contains a single paper titled &quot;Automated Testing of mySAP Business Processes&quot;.  If you're involved in web-enabled ERP or portal quality this paper is a treasure.<br />Although this book is an anthology, the topics and editing make it coherent and focused.  It is not a book that covers quality or testing as a unified methodology.  If you're seeking such a book read &quot;Quality Web Systems: Performance, Security, and Usability&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka and Douglas McDiarmid does go into details and is one of the best books on end-to-end web systems quality.to enterprise application integration and e-business system testing.  In addition to papers on testing techniques, other aspects of quality are covered in this section, such as performance monitoring (more aligned to capacity planning and performance management than testing, but certainly applicable to quality and service level management).<br />(5) Test Automation Techniques and Tools contains a single paper titled &quot;Automated Testing of mySAP Business Processes&quot;.  If you're involved in web-enabled ERP or portal quality this paper is a treasure.<br />Although this book is an anthology, the topics and editing make it coherent and focused.  It is not a book that covers quality or testing as a unified methodology.  If you're seeking such a book read &quot;Quality Web Systems: Performance, Security, and Usability&quot; by Elfriede Dustin, Jeff Rashka and Douglas McDiarmid does go into details and is one of the best books on end-to-end web systems quality.	2002-06-30
1492832:US	53037408	R2LMQKOFO4HADV	0527916390	961846190	SPC Simplified for Services	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful intro to SPC and excellent training tool	This is essentially the same book as &quot;SPC Simplified: Practical Steps to Quality&quot;.  The key differences are that the material is sequenced differently and the emphasis is on using SPC in service industries.  Like the book upon which it's based, it's divided into modules, each of which builds upon the preceding one.  The value of this approach is that this book can be used either as a training text or as a self-study guide.<br />Basic principles are covered in the first module, followed by modules on quality tools (module 2 covers problem solving tools, and module 3 covers quality improvement tools from the larger body of TQM tools and techniques).<br />The foundation of SPC is laid in module 4, which introduces variation, histograms and checklists.  This material prepares you for module 5 (variables control charts) and 6 (attributes control charts).  The service specific part of this book emerges in module 7 (sampling plans) and 8 (systems capability).  All examples in these two modules use examples that are common to services industries, which adds realism and practicality to the material for the intended audience.  Module 9 ties together the preceding modules by giving a framework for problem solving. Also included are answers to practice problems from the various modules, and an appendix of factors and formulas that make this book valuable long after it has served its purpose as a training tool.<br />If you're new to SPC or think it is beyond your ability to grasp this book will give you a solid foundation in the basics. After reading this book and working through the practice problems you will understand how to use the  highly effective problem solving and quality improvement tools, and will be able to develop and apply common control charts to measure variation and process capability. After you've mastered the skills this book provides you may want to read &quot;Design and Management of Service Processes&quot; by Rohit Ramaswamy, which goes much deeper into service processes, process improvement and SPC.per into service processes, process improvement and SPC.	2002-06-30
1492843:US	53037408	R17J3JMBIAUBVC	0070025665	522790675	Testing to Verify Design and Manufacturing Readiness (Practical Engineering Guides for Managing Risks)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Contains valuable info for HW/SW integration	This book, despite the editorial description on this page, is entirely about hardware/software integration as it pertains to managing acquisition risk for the buyer and the processes and procedures that need to be employed by the developer.<br />If you work within the framework of the FDA's General Principles of Software Validation or the FAA's DO-178B for safety-critical avionics the material is consistent with these governing documents, but is too outdated to be useful.<br />However, if you are working on integrated projects that are unregulated with respect to government controls you may find this book useful. It contains a wealth of useful guidelines for establishing and managing processes to support development of products that are based on embedded software or hardware/software integration,  The core of this book is a collection of templates that were developed and proven in the DoD industry, and are designed to manage integrated testing, failure management and field feedback.  Each element is applicable to commercial environments, especially for companies that are manufacturing intelligent network devices, data storage systems and specialty products such as digital control systems, sensors and other integrated hardware/software products.<br />The templates are introduced in Chapter 1, and each of the seven functional areas covered by the templates are discussed in separate chapters.  These functional areas are: integrated testing, failure reporting, design limits, product life, test/analyze/fix process, uniform test reporting and field feedback.  A chapter on applying these follows, but the material is slanted towards DoD issues. If you apply thought and imagination while reading this chapter you should get ideas on how to refactor the cases into your own environment.<br />Section 2 devotes three chapters to software design and test, which are based on the older waterfall development life cycle.  However, this particular life cycle lends itself well to developing embedded systems, making this material valid and applicable to commercial environments.<br />Overall, this is a useful book for the intended audience I cited above if you can track down a copy. In particular, the checklists and overall framework are valuable, and much can be learned from the risk-based approach taken in the book.ping embedded systems, making this material valid and applicable to commercial environments.<br />Overall, this is a useful book for the intended audience I cited above if you can track down a copy. In particular, the checklists and overall framework are valuable, and much can be learned from the risk-based approach taken in the book.	2002-06-29
1492868:US	53037408	R8KOMIRSN9GNR	0787958484	511820859	Strategies for E-Business Success	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Real world issues and solutions - excellent book!	This book contains one of the most forward-thinking collections of papers on e-business strategies that I've found between two covers. The material is based on work from MIT's Sloan School of Management and differs from most material coming from academia by being practical and reflecting what can be accomplished in the real world.<br />The book is divided into three topic areas: strategy, implementation and technology.  The material in each section appears to have been carefully selected to provide the essentials.  For example, each of the six papers under Strategy contain a distinct viewpoint of a distinct element of developing and implementing an e-business strategy.  My favorite paper in this section is &quot;Finding Sustainable Profitability in Electronic Commerce&quot; by John M. de Figueiredo because it shows not only what needs to be done, but also what will not work.  Each of the other sections follow this pattern - the papers are in touch with the harsh realities and challenges faced by businesses, not stuff cooked up in an ivory tower.<br />Although not stated as an objective by the authors (and editors), this book does a remarkable job of bridging the gap between business and IT.  For the business side, the slant towards strategy and marketing in the e-business environment will provide a solid foundation about what it takes to establish an &quot;e&quot; presence, and how to effectively build trust and a brand image, develop customer loyalty and manage online processes.  For the IT side this book provides insights about business challenges within the context of strategic and tactical requirements.  This is especially useful information for those who are working as business systems analysts.  Those IT professionals need to gain more than a cursory understanding of business requirements and translate them into technical solutions.  Moreover, for those few IT departments do anticipate business needs, or are integrated into the business strategic planning process this book will provide many ideas about how technology can support business imperatives.<br />In addition to the excellent material in this book, you'll find a wealth of information on Erik Brynjolfsson's personal web page, which also has links to even more relevant material on pages at MIT Sloan School of Management and MIT's Center for eBusiness.rocess this book will provide many ideas about how technology can support business imperatives.<br />In addition to the excellent material in this book, you'll find a wealth of information on Erik Brynjolfsson's personal web page, which also has links to even more relevant material on pages at MIT Sloan School of Management and MIT's Center for eBusiness.	2002-06-29
1492978:US	53037408	R1M172SIHKD1YQ	0201604442	427245750	Measuring the Software Process: Statistical Process Control for Software Process Improvement	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent book for CMM level 5 and 6-Sigma organizations	This book contains the keys to meeting core CMM level 5 requirements, which defines key processes for optimizing and continuous improvement, and for achieving 6-sigma processes. However, you need not be striving for either (or both) of these goals to use the techniques and approach in this book to full advantage.<br />Implementing and employing statistical process controls are the basis of this book. The authors lead you through the steps and techniques necessary to implement and use SPC, starting with background information on processes and a process measurement framework, and moving through topics such as planning your measurement strategy, data collection and analysis, and developing and interpreting process behavior charts using common SPC chart types. The most common controls are x-bar (mean) and r (range) charts.  Be aware that any SPC approach requires two conditions to be met:  (a) defined processes, and (b) the processes are in statistical control (meaning that the data points being measured have settled into a normal distribution that are randomly clustered around a mean and have defined upper and lower control limits).  New processes, or processes that are not managed well enough to have these characteristics are not candidates for SPC.<br />This book requires knowledge and skills in basic statistical analysis.  If you require a refresher I recommend reading &quot;Visual Statistics&quot; by Jack R. Fraenkel before tackling this book.  I also recommend &quot;Applied Statistics for Software Managers&quot; by Katrina Maxwell, which not only teaches the basics, but also approaches measurement from the perspective of multi-variable analysis, regression analysis and other basic measurement techniques, which nicely complements the SPC material in this book and gives a broader picture of metrics.	2002-06-29
1493457:US	53037408	R1QEHLRXXWBUEH	007040433X	846388606	Testing Very Big Systems (MCGRAW HILL SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SERIES)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mining for gold	After you've peeled back the layers of testing techniques that are better documented and more refined in more recent books, and archaic language that characterized the mainframe lingo that was dying out when this book was first written a decade ago you'll find gold.<br />First, the way test case management is presented stands the test of time.  The author is obviously well versed in managing complex system testing and it shows in his detailed approach to developing a test strategy and managing a large array of test cases. As good as this material is, it isn't a sufficient reason to track down a copy of this book because Rick Craig and Stefan Jaskiel have a more modern book, \\"Systematic Software Testing\\" that accomplishes the same goal.<br />The real gold is in the way that this book integrates testing, issue management and metrics.  Although there is a large body of knowledge on these topics, this book manages to sort out the complexities in the clearest terms I've encountered. I also think that the approach change management is excellent, and especially the way this is linked to issue management. On the subject of issue management, the taxonomy of issue types has served me as a model during numerous consulting engagements for service delivery and software engineering process development, and have been proven in the field.<br />Additional gold is in the chapters on test documentation (especially the treatment of status reporting) and managing management.  I also like the way that the author takes economic considerations into account, which was not much in vogue when this book was written in 1992.<br />If you're an SQA or applications delivery practitioner I strongly recommend tracking down a copy of this book.  Look past the archaic parts and you will find one nugget after the other of useful information.  I wish this book would be rewritten to reflect today's environment and the lessons that the author learned in the decade since this book was first published because there is much in this book that you will not find elsewhere.ause there is much in this book that you will not find elsewhere.	2002-06-29
1493567:US	53037408	R3FB0VK1YLUNMS	0130417890	737082171	Applied Statistics for Software Managers	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Clearly written tutorial and fact book on SW metrics	If you're working in SQA or managing software development projects this book is an excellent introductory text to statistical analysis.  Although I found &quot;Measuring the Software Process&quot; by William Florac and Anita Carleton to me a more in-depth book that book assumes that you've established a metrics program and that you already have a working knowledge of statistics.<br />What I like about this book is that it's a tutorial on the statistical skills and knowledge that you'll need, and it combines this learning goal with the basics of software metrics and how they can be employed to measure productivity, estimate projects, and manage costs and organizational quality. The core approach is data analysis, and the main tools that the book employs are multi-variate techniques, regression analysis and correlation and sensitivity tests.  The author has a talent for clearly explaining a dry subject, and while it will take a good deal of effort to master the material because of its nature, the excellent writing and illustrations will make it easy to quickly grasp statistical fundamentals and put them to use.<br />The lessons are taught within the framework of four case studies that are realistic and apply to the real world. The case study topics are: productivity analysis, analysis of time to market factors, development cost analysis, and maintenance cost drivers.  These cover the full range of both internal development and product-line software engineering.  I especially like the inclusion of maintenance costs as a topic of study because this area contributes significantly to total costs of ownership, but is often overlooked.<br />As of the date of this review there are two primary books that address measurement from a statistical perspective:  this one and Florac's and Carleton's &quot;Measuring the Software Process&quot;.  Deciding which is better is a matter of assessing your needs. The key strengths of this book is the tutorial nature and the wide range of case studies that are used to reinforce the learning.  The key strengths of &quot;Measuring the Software Process&quot; is that it goes much deeper into analysis and also includes statistical process controls and other techniques that are present in highly mature development organizations. Regardless of which book you choose (or if you choose both), the information and knowledge to be gained is the foundation of SQA and best practices in project management.se studies that are used to reinforce the learning.  The key strengths of &quot;Measuring the Software Process&quot; is that it goes much deeper into analysis and also includes statistical process controls and other techniques that are present in highly mature development organizations. Regardless of which book you choose (or if you choose both), the information and knowledge to be gained is the foundation of SQA and best practices in project management.	2002-06-29
1493928:US	53037408	R1FOPCKZIDL866	1880410648	645285737	Essentials of Project Control	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The basics and the essentials - great collection of articles	Project managers of all skill levels will find something useful in this collection of past articles from Project Management Journal and PM Network (Project Management Institute's quarterly professional journal and monthly magazine).  As the title implies, the articles are about various aspects of project controls, with an emphasis on earned value and related techniques.<br />No book about project controls would be complete without a chapter on controlling scope creep, which is the topic of Chapter 1.  However, this article has a unique perspective that shows how it's &quot;Not Necessarily a Bad Thing&quot;.  The next two chapters provide broad views of project controls, with a collection of best practices for technology projects in Chapter 2, and a bottom-up approach in Chapter 3.  Rework cycles are covered in chapters 4 and 5.  The inclusion of these chapters adds much to this book because rework is not a mainstream topic, yet it has everything to do with controlling cost, quality and schedule.  I like the succinct treatment of critical success factors across the life cycle that is provided in Chapter 6.<br />The remainder of the book addresses earned value project management and related controls.  The articles that cover earned value project management are thorough and complete.  Each should be carefully read.  I was delighted to see Stephen Devaux's &quot;When the DIPP* Dips: A P&amp;L Index for Project Decisions&quot; in this collection.  DIPP is [Devaux's] Index of Project Performance.  This index is aimed at project selection and prioritization techniques, and is particularly useful in product-based projects because it computes the cost of lost opportunity and the impact of being late to market. For internal projects it provides a clear link to business imperatives, which can bridge the gap between IT and the business. As an aside not related to this book, Devaux has found flaws in the way earned value's schedule performance index can mislead.<br />Chapters 10-13 wrap up the book with articles on planning for crises, avoiding large-scale IS project failures, an analysis of cost overruns on defense acquisition contracts and project monitoring for early termination.<br />This carefully selected collection of articles covers all of the major issues, challenges and techniques associated with project control. If you want to master the complexities of earned value project management I recommend &quot;Earned Value Project Management (2nd edition) by Quentin W. Fleming and Joel M. Koppelman.  I also strongly recommend reading &quot;Total Project Control: A Manager's Guide to Integrated Project Planning, Measuring, and Tracking&quot; by Stephen A. Devaux, which will provide a complete and comprehensive approach to controlling projects, including portfolios of projects at the program management office level.-13 wrap up the book with articles on planning for crises, avoiding large-scale IS project failures, an analysis of cost overruns on defense acquisition contracts and project monitoring for early termination.  <br />This carefully selected collection of articles covers all of the major issues, challenges and techniques associated with project control. If you want to master the complexities of earned value project management I recommend &quot;Earned Value Project Management (2nd edition) by Quentin W. Fleming and Joel M. Koppelman.  I also strongly recommend reading &quot;Total Project Control: A Manager's Guide to Integrated Project Planning, Measuring, and Tracking&quot; by Stephen A. Devaux, which will provide a complete and comprehensive approach to controlling projects, including portfolios of projects at the program management office level.	2002-06-28
1494645:US	53037408	R30TCL48DA0X8D	0471588040	462952048	Quality Assurance for Information Systems: Methods, Tools, and Techniques	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Aging gracefully with lots of life left - not for SW testing	This book represents a pivot point in Perry's prolific published works that date from 1981.  What makes it pivotal is the fact that this book synthesizes his approach to IS quality assurance from a production support viewpoint and his future work which focuses on software testing.<br />Although over 11 years old the QA approach contained in this book is still valid. To get at the gems, though, you have to overlook a few things.  For example, terminology common in the mainframe data center of past decades sounds quaint even to those of us who came from that environment.  Also, the code examples used to illustrate quality problems are sure to confuse the younger generation of C++ and Java developers and test professionals who probably never heard of PL/I and only vaguely know about FORTRAN.<br />What I like about this book and the reason why I think it's still an important reference is the fact that application quality from an enterprise perspective is addressed.  This goes beyond testing and release processes, as well as beyond project issues surrounding applications delivery and SQA.  The focus is on production and maintenance, although testing, SQA and project metrics are addressed.<br />In addition to the focus, the book contains checklists, questionnaires and sample forms that can be updated to reflect modern computing environments - and you may be surprised to find that much of this 'ancient' material requires very little modification.  Another aspect of this book that I like is the material on software maintenance, which seems to be a lost art, although it's as important now as it ever was.<br />Don't let the age of this book deter you if you're interested in quality assurance from a production support point of view.  If you are seeking a book on software testing this will not be useful (I recommend Systematic Software Testing by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel for that) or SQA metrics (any of Robert B. Grady's books are great starting places).  The best recommendation I can give is that this book has served me well in over a decade of consulting, and it probably will for years to come. However, it shouldn't be your only reference either.recommendation I can give is that this book has served me well in over a decade of consulting, and it probably will for years to come. However, it shouldn't be your only reference either.	2002-06-28
1494754:US	53037408	R13N0ILSP9OF6K	1880410117	537506228	Quality Management for Projects and Programs	Books	5	10	11	N	N	High-level, but covers the important points	If you're seeking a solid introduction to basic quality techniques and how to apply them to project management this book will meet your needs.  It starts off with a macro view of quality, starting with why quality is important and how it meets both project and business objectives within the context of competitive advantage.<br />There is nothing new in this book.  It's the way that the critical success factors for integrating quality into projects are presented that makes it valuable.  For example, the chapter on customer requirements is common sense, but the issues and challenges are exposed in the next chapter on planning for quality projects. In that chapter the elements and dimensions of a project and stakeholder requirements are dissected, which then adds insights into the previous chapter.  This material is then taken to a new level in the chapter on cost of quality, which explores the cost to achieve quality, and the costs of not having quality - these are the foundation for building a business case for taking a quality-focused approach in the project.  They will also provide ammunition to rebut management when they want to take short cuts as the project evolves (especially product development projects) by quantifying the ramifications of their decisions.<br />One chapter that I especially like is V, Statistical Concepts and Quality Tools. Not only does this chapter introduce tools and techniques that can be applied to project management, but it also introduces statistical process controls.  While statistical process controls are overkill for many projects, they can serve as a dashboard at the program management office level for tracking cost and performance indices, requirements churn and other key indicators across a portfolio of projects.<br />Overall, this book is brief and only touches upon many of the factors for incorporating quality into project management. However, it is sufficiently detailed to teach the concepts and the value, and will point you in the right direction.the right direction.	2002-06-28
1494848:US	53037408	R1I3AF6ZYIL6SU	187828990X	825404725	Information Technology Evaluation Methods and Management	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Specialized collection of papers for specialized audience	The collection of papers in this book represent the collective knowledge of a diverse group of international experts.  While this book has wide appeal to academic readers, it is also an invaluable source of material, case studies and approaches for consultants who specialize in IT management and/or strategic planning and operational reengineering.<br />There are five topic areas, each with two or more papers:<br />(1) Benefits Realization, which addresses how to assess and quantify IT investment benefits.  This topic area will be of interest to program management offices, governance committees, CIOs and anyone who is trying to develop a portfolio-based approach to IT investments that shows a clear ROI.<br />(2) Evaluation and Research Methods.  This is an extension of the previous topic area, and focuses on after-the-fact evaluation of investment decisions.<br />(3) Alternatives to Traditional Evaluation, which is one of the more interesting topic areas.  Each of the four papers are excellent, although I'd been exposed to the mechanics of each of the approaches from previous works.<br />(4) Evaluation of New Technologies. This topic area's three papers are each worth reading.  My favorite was by Murphy and Simon, titled &quot;Using Cost Benefit Analysis for Enterprise Resource Planning Project Evaluation: A Case for Including Intangibles&quot;.  What made this paper a favorite is the fact that cost-benefit analysis is a questionable technique for defining IS benefit because intangibles are difficult to quantify.  The authors tackle this problem and give what appears to be a workable solution.<br />(5) Evaluation Through Balanced Scorecard.  I'll confess that this topic area is why I bought the book in the first place.  I wasn't disappointed and felt that the five papers in this topic area justified, in my opinion, the cost of the book.<br />This isn't a book for the casual reader, nor does it give an end-to-end approach for evaluating IT investments and methods.  If you're seeking that kind of book I recommend and of Dan Remenyi's books, especially &quot;The Effective Measurement and Management of IT Costs and Benefits&quot;. However, if you are a consultant that works in any of the topic areas you'll find the material within to be thought provoking and informative.If you're seeking that kind of book I recommend and of Dan Remenyi's books, especially &quot;The Effective Measurement and Management of IT Costs and Benefits&quot;. However, if you are a consultant that works in any of the topic areas you'll find the material within to be thought provoking and informative.	2002-06-28
1496959:US	53037408	R2H6KP4QFS31TQ	0130889024	577763342	Definitive XML Application Development	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Complete reference for experienced developers	This book requires a solid working knowledge of XML and associated protocols (XLST, XPath, XML Schema), Python and Java), and is written for practicing developers who are involved with web services, e-commerce and extended supply chain applications.  You should also be reasonably familiar with DOM, data structures and relational databases to get the most from this book.<br />After a quick introduction to the XML processing  the author wastes no time getting to the meat by going into processing types in Sections II (Event-Based Processing), III (Tree-Based Processing) and IV (Declarative Processing).  Each of these sections are comprised of chapters and topics that cover the strengths and weaknesses of each approach, common tools and example applications, and tips and techniques.<br />Section V is focused on Java development, including SAX in Java, DOM in Java and XSLT In Java Applications.  This section covers APIs, tools and specific considerations for each topic.<br />The final section addresses XML processing in detail, and deals with alternative processing approaches (including hybrids of event-, tree- and declarative-based models), schemas, and RSS.<br />In addition the appendices are informative and add to the value of this book.  In particular, Appendix A, A Lightning Introduction to Python, will get seasoned developers up-to-speed (augmented by Appendix C which covers Python XML Packages).  Appendix B is a glossary that goes into considerable detail, making it a handy reference.<br />I found this book to be well written, complete and devoid of fluff. An excellent companion to this book is the three book bundle titled &quot;The Definitive XML Professional Toolkit&quot;, which contains CHARLES F. GOLDFARB'S XML HANDBOOK by Charles F. Goldfarb and Paul Prescod, DEFINITIVE XSLT AND XPATH by G. Ken Holman and DEFINITIVE XML SCHEMA by Priscilla Walmsley.	2002-06-26
1497248:US	53037408	RFYCFV27NCY2H	0201704846	885329758	Programming the World Wide Web	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Tired of RPG/400, JCL and the like?  Here's a ticket out	If you're seeking a book that will prepare you for a career as a web developer, this isn't what you're looking for. It's neither a programming tutorial nor a book on specific environments, such as .NET.  However, if you're doing maintenance programming in, say, RPG/400 or writing JCL and are wondering how you can refactor your skills and get out of the mid-range and mainframe environment this book is ideal.<br />Solid programming skills are assumed (preferably in C or C++, but that isn't essential).  You should have a basic understanding of databases and data structures.  If you have these skills this book will systematically familiarize you with the web programming environment and common tools and programming languages that you'll need to master in order to transition out of the data center.  I like the way the book touches all of the key knowledge areas, starting with HTML and going through javascript, perl and the usual cast of mark-up, scripting and programming languages.  More importantly, this book doesn't skim the surface - it does into databases, XML and server-side development.  If you've read the table of contents and are tempted to question why CGI was included in such a relatively new book, bear in mind that most of the information in this book is ideal for maintenance programmers, and there are literally thousands of systems that still employ CGI scripts.  This also reinforces my opinion about who will benefit most from this book - maintenance programmers from mid-range and mainframe environments.<br />In a nutshell, you bring your knowledge of algorithms, data structures and development methodologies, and the book will show you how to apply them to web programming.	2002-06-26
1497314:US	53037408	R1D8PO57WBR26E	0967584418	721877830	Translucent Databases	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Unique approach that turns theory into practical solutions	This book contains an innovative and viable approach to securing databases, and one that I've not encountered anywhere else.  In a nutshell the author provides techniques, based on standard SQL and Java, for securing sensitive data without restricting general access of less sensitive data to authorized users.  The core of this approach is based on encryption and one-way functions, including PKI and secure hashing, and accepted authentication techniques such as digital signatures.<br />What makes this book unique is that while it's based on solid theoretical ground, the material is practical.  As the techniques are discussed they are illustrated by 15 different scenarios, all of which contain problems faced by e-commerce, HIPAA and other high security environments, and code examples that show how to solve the problems. I like the way the author shows how to implement his solutions in common database environments (PostgreSQL, MySQL and Oracle - the approach should also work in the MS SQL Server environment). As I read this book I saw interesting possibilities for implementing role-based access controls and securing against SQL-based statistical attacks using the author's approach.<br />This book is essential reading for DBAs, system architects and IT security professionals, especially those in healthcare who are struggling with meeting HIPAA requirements, and in e-commerce who are challenged by protecting credit card and account information.  This book shows the DBA how to secure his or her database, and the system architects and security professionals what is possible using SQL and Java.  The book also has an associated web site which is supposed to have soft copies of all of the source code contained in the book. As of 6/25/02 the link to the source code is on the site, but the code itself is not yet available.  When it is the value of this book will increase even more because of the time it will save by not having to manually create the code from scratch.<br />If you are new to the cryptographic techniques introduced in this book I recommend &quot;Cryptography Decrypted&quot; by H. X. Mel and Doris M. Baker, which is one of the best introductions to this complex subject.  I also recommend reading &quot;Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World&quot; by Bruce Schneier, which covers the technical, organizational and social aspects of security and gives a clear description of the technical underpinnings discussed in this book.ou are new to the cryptographic techniques introduced in this book I recommend &quot;Cryptography Decrypted&quot; by H. X. Mel and Doris M. Baker, which is one of the best introductions to this complex subject.  I also recommend reading &quot;Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World&quot; by Bruce Schneier, which covers the technical, organizational and social aspects of security and gives a clear description of the technical underpinnings discussed in this book.	2002-06-26
1497596:US	53037408	R61Z5DGZXUZV4	0595223273	8605879	So You Want to be an Oracle DBA?: Still more useful information, scripts and suggestions for the new and experienced Oracle DBA.	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Best intro for the new DBA - will get you quickly started	First, you need to know that this book is based on version 9i and is focused on the UNIX environment.  If you're using Oracle 8i and have no immediate plans to upgrade you will find that the previous edition (ISBN 0595174485) to be more suitable.<br />The ideal audience for this book is the new Oracle DBA or UNIX system administrators who have either inherited DBA responsibilities or who want to gain cross-functional skills.  Experienced DBAs will find much of this book too basic, and may complain that it doesn't cover the full range of database administration topics.<br />In my opinion the relatively narrow scope of this book is one of its strengths. Instead of overwhelming the new DBA with hundreds of pages it sticks to the essentials. Another point in its favor is that the author doesn't attempt to go into gory details about how things work (information that you can get from other books as your comfort level and self-confidence improve), but remains focused on what you need to do in order to effectively manage and support an Oracle 9i instance.<br />While I liked the Getting Started and Some DBA tasks (Sections I and II) that start this book, I especially liked Section III, which covers tuning. This is the essence of what a DBA does, and the basics are well covered.  This section also gives some excellent scripts that the new DBA will find invaluable.  Section IV, is somewhat useful, but Section V is another favorite because it shows how to begin building your own set of tools, which is the hallmark of an experienced DBA. The scripts that are provided in this section are the foundation of database administration, and will spark ideas for additional and more specific scripts. The value is that you can learn much from what is provided.<br />Each topic in this book is given a brief 2-3 pages, which makes it somewhat terse.  In many cases you'll have to go to other books for deeper explanations, but at least you'll be quickly functional.<br />If I had to choose a single book with which to get started this would be it. Of course you'll outgrow this as your skills and experience evolve, but it will get you started and does so using good practices and workable techniques.ngle book with which to get started this would be it. Of course you'll outgrow this as your skills and experience evolve, but it will get you started and does so using good practices and workable techniques.	2002-06-26
1497630:US	53037408	R1Y6IM04DUKL4E	0769509991	646796291	Software Process Improvement	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Compendium of articles for SPI &amp; SPA practitioners	With exceptions that I've noted below this is an in-depth examination of standards, initiatives and methods for software process improvement (SPI) and software process assessment (SPA).<br />The book is divided into twelve chapters, each of which contains two or more papers written by top experts in the field, including Mark Paulk (of CMM fame), Watts S. Humphrey (creator of PSP and TSP, and prolific author of software engineering process papers), Robert B. Grady (author of three standard references on metrics), and others who key players, but are not as widely known outside of the SPI and SPA community.<br />Chapter 1 covers software process assessment with an article by Paulk that surveys the more common models for SPI and SPA, and a reprint of Sarah Sheard's excellent article from CrossTalk Magazine titled &quot;The Frameworks Quagmire&quot;.  Chapter 2 contains three articles on the SW-CMM, which seems to be the centerpiece of this book.  Chapter 3, &quot;Other Approaches to Software Process Assessment&quot; contains four articles that add balance by covering non-CMM approaches that are in common use, especially in Europe (Bootstrap).  I especially liked the article by David N. Card titled &quot;Sorting out Six Sigma and the CMM&quot;, which combines two hot topics.  One of the exceptions that I cited at the beginning of this review is the article on Trillium, which in my opinion has been superseded by TL 9000 in the telecommunications industry.<br />The three articles in Chapter 4 (Software Process Improvement: How To Do It) address common concerns and barriers to any SPI initiative, and each add well thought out ideas, especially  Sandra McGill's &quot;Overcoming Resistance to Standard Processes, or, Herding Cats&quot;, and William Florac's &quot;Statistically Managing the Software Process&quot;.<br />Watts Humphrey's Personal and Team Software Processes, and CMMI are the key topics in Chapter 5, which covers developments inspired by the SW-CMM.  All of Chapter 6's Software Product Evaluation articles were my favorites from among the collection in this book, and I particularly liked Jrgen Begh's &quot;Quality Evaluation of Software Products&quot; and Geoff Dromey's &quot;A Model for Software Product Quality&quot; because they go to the heart of key issues in both product line engineering challenges and user acceptance testing.<br />Chapter 7, ISO 9000 Series and TickIT, is the second exception that I previously noted.  Much has changed in ISO 9000 with the 2000 standard, which renders this entire chapter moot in my opinion.  I also thought the five articles in Chapter 8, The SPICE Project, would have been a better fit in Chapter 3. The same goes for Chapter 9, Experiences of Software Process Assessment, which is nearly an extension of Chapter 8, and is closely related to Chapter 3.<br />Two other favorite chapters are 10 (Software Process Improvement for Small Organizations) and 11 (Benefits of Software Process Improvement).  Chapter 10's three articles dispell any notion that SPI is only feasible for large organizations, and the three articles in Chapter 11 focus on the benefits of SPI, especially Herb Krasner's article titled &quot;Accumulating the Body of Evidence for the Payoff of Software Process Improvement&quot;. I also liked the final chapter, which covers software processes in general, including an excellent article on modeling. I felt that this chapter should have been at the beginning of the book instead of the end.<br />Overall, this is a book for those of us who are nearly religious about SPI; but is not a good introductory text.  It's main value will be to IT consultants who specialize in either SPI or SPA (or both), and who need to be familiar with the mainstream standards and approaches.SW-CMM.  All of Chapter 6's Software Product Evaluation articles were my favorites from among the collection in this book, and I particularly liked Jrgen Begh's &quot;Quality Evaluation of Software Products&quot; and Geoff Dromey's &quot;A Model for Software Product Quality&quot; because they go to the heart of key issues in both product line engineering challenges and user acceptance testing.<br />Chapter 7, ISO 9000 Series and TickIT, is the second exception that I previously noted.  Much has changed in ISO 9000 with the 2000 standard, which renders this entire chapter moot in my opinion.  I also thought the five articles in Chapter 8, The SPICE Project, would have been a better fit in Chapter 3. The same goes for Chapter 9, Experiences of Software Process Assessment, which is nearly an extension of Chapter 8, and is closely related to Chapter 3.<br />Two other favorite chapters are 10 (Software Process Improvement for Small Organizations) and 11 (Benefits of Software Process Improvement).  Chapter 10's three articles dispell any notion that SPI is only feasible for large organizations, and the three articles in Chapter 11 focus on the benefits of SPI, especially Herb Krasner's article titled &quot;Accumulating the Body of Evidence for the Payoff of Software Process Improvement&quot;. I also liked the final chapter, which covers software processes in general, including an excellent article on modeling. I felt that this chapter should have been at the beginning of the book instead of the end.<br />Overall, this is a book for those of us who are nearly religious about SPI; but is not a good introductory text.  It's main value will be to IT consultants who specialize in either SPI or SPA (or both), and who need to be familiar with the mainstream standards and approaches.	2002-06-26
1497850:US	53037408	R3AF3WI0WLEHBD	1929065078	487153661	Best Practices in Policies and Procedures	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Links strategy to policies &amp; procedures + best practices	This book is the latest in Mr. Page's series of books on writing policies and procedures, and it the one that ties together his previous work.  In particular this book extends his comprehensive &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot; book by adding both a process and an array of examples that policies and procedures writers will find invaluable.<br />Where his previous books focused on the process of developing and implementing policies and procedures, this one links corporate vision and strategy to policies and procedures.  The process to accomplish this is given in four steps (1) define the vision, (2) define the strategy, (3) define core processes that support the strategy and vision, and (4) align the policies and procedures to the core processes. As someone with extensive experience in developing and implementing policies and procedures I can attest that this method is critical to success.<br />Approximately the first two thirds of the book is devoted to stepping you through the process and does so clearly.  I like the way a graphical depiction of the process starts each chapter in the first half of the book to give you a point of reference and to also indicate what remains to be done.  The chapter sequence is (1) Vision and Strategic Directions, (2) Building the TOC, (3) Developing Policies and Procedures, (4) Writing Policies and Procedures, (5)Table of Contents Examples and Policy and Procedure URLs, and (6) Epilogue.  A great deal of emphasis is given to critical success factors, such as roles and responsibilities and cross-functional team management.  I also like the way each chapter ends with a checklist for understanding and references.<br />What makes this book unique, however, is the last third of the book (Chapter 5), which is a listing of URLs and descriptive information that point to 56 policies and procedures manuals accessible over the web that reflect best practices.  Since URLs frequently change, the book has an associated web site that keeps these up-to-date.  The descriptive information for each URL includes topic (type of manual), functional area (industry segment), subject area category (what it covers) and detailed subject areas (a summary of the TOC).  The best practices reflect most major functional areas, including accounting, child care, church, e-mail, information technology and software engineering, project management, risk management, purchasing, personnel, and more.<br />The research and effort that went into this book is both exhaustive and impressive.  This book is an ideal companion to any of the author's other books, especially if you choose &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot; book.  Combined, his set of four books is powerful set of tools for developing best-in-class policies and procedures.ed web site that keeps these up-to-date.  The descriptive information for each URL includes topic (type of manual), functional area (industry segment), subject area category (what it covers) and detailed subject areas (a summary of the TOC).  The best practices reflect most major functional areas, including accounting, child care, church, e-mail, information technology and software engineering, project management, risk management, purchasing, personnel, and more.<br />The research and effort that went into this book is both exhaustive and impressive.  This book is an ideal companion to any of the author's other books, especially if you choose &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot; book.  Combined, his set of four books is powerful set of tools for developing best-in-class policies and procedures.	2002-06-25
1498000:US	53037408	RU0CP8AABSOFI	0130994715	567566175	The Definitive XML Professional Toolkit	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Value package of three excellent books	This boxed set contains three books that have been published in December 2001 and represent the essentials for anyone who is working with XML and web services.<br />The books are:<br />(1) CHARLES F. GOLDFARB'S XML HANDBOOK by Charles F. Goldfarb and Paul Prescod. Goldfarb invented SGML, upon which XML is based and which had a significant influence on the design of HTML.  At 1200 pages this book is probably one of the most complete references that one can have.  It covers every conceivable topic, ranging from a good description of XML and how it evolved from SGML, to semantic web and web services (each of which are disciplines onto themselves).<br />Expected topics are given in-depth treatment (XML, schemas, DTDs, datatypes, XSLT, XSL-FO, XLink, XPath, XPointer, XSDL, namespaces, topic maps, RDF, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and VoiceXML), with a focus on the following:<br />- integration of XML and the older EDI approaches to e-commerce and extended supply chain systems<br />- a sound approach to content management<br />- how XML fits into the web services framework<br />- chapters on important topics such as portals, databases, content acquisition, conversion and publishing<br />- a series of chapters devoted to tutorials on XML basics, schemas, and transformation and navigation protocols<br />In addition this book comes with two CD ROMs that are packed with applications such as IBM's AlphaWorks suite and NeoCore XMS Native XML Database (Personal Edition). A trial version of TurboXML IDE &amp; Schema Editor is also included among the 175 programs on the CD ROM set.<br />This is an overwhelming book for beginners, but is a valuable resource for anyone who is deeply involved in web services, XML and related technologies.  If you fit the latter category this is probably the only XML reference you'll need.<br /><br />(2) DEFINITIVE XML SCHEMA by Priscilla Walmsley.  In a nutshell this book gives a detailed description of the XML schema and associated topics.  The author is a member of the W3C working group that created XML Schema, and the material in this book is consistent with W3C recommendations.  See the editorial description and reviews on this book's product page for specifics.<br />(3) DEFINITIVE XSLT AND XPATH by G. Ken Holman.  Covers everything you need to know about transforming information structured vocabularies and output formats. The author is the chair of OASIS's XSLT/XPath Conformance Technical Subcommittee. See the editorial description and reviews on this book's product page for specifics.<br />What's not included in this set, but worth getting is DEFINITIVE XML APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT by Lars Marius Garshol.  However, &quot;The Definitive XML Professional Toolkit&quot; will provide you with a solid foundation of the basics as well as software tools that you can evaluate as candidates for your own development environment.W3C working group that created XML Schema, and the material in this book is consistent with W3C recommendations.  See the editorial description and reviews on this book's product page for specifics.<br />(3) DEFINITIVE XSLT AND XPATH by G. Ken Holman.  Covers everything you need to know about transforming information structured vocabularies and output formats. The author is the chair of OASIS's XSLT/XPath Conformance Technical Subcommittee. See the editorial description and reviews on this book's product page for specifics.<br />What's not included in this set, but worth getting is DEFINITIVE XML APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT by Lars Marius Garshol.  However, &quot;The Definitive XML Professional Toolkit&quot; will provide you with a solid foundation of the basics as well as software tools that you can evaluate as candidates for your own development environment.	2002-06-25
1498695:US	53037408	R2OBDPKDXV3KF1	0130651982	4644794	Charles F. Goldfarb's XML Handbook (4th Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Comprehensive and covers a waide array of topics	At 1200 pages this book is probably one of the most complete references that one can have.  It covers every conceivable topic, ranging from a good description of XML and how it evolved from SGML, to semantic web and web services (each of which are disciplines onto themselves).<br />Expected topics are given in-depth treatment (XML, schemas, DTDs, datatypes, XSLT, XSL-FO, XLink, XPath, XPointer, XSDL, namespaces, topic maps, RDF, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and VoiceXML), with a focus on the following:<br />- integration of XML and the older EDI approaches to e-commerce and extended supply chain systems<br />- a sound approach to content management<br />- how XML fits into the web services framework<br />- chapters on important topics such as portals, databases, content acquisition, conversion and publishing<br />- a series of chapters devoted to tutorials on XML basics, schemas, and transformation and navigation protocols<br />In addition this book comes with two CD ROMs that are packed with applications such as IBM's AlphaWorks suite and NeoCore XMS Native XML Database (Personal Edition). A trial version of TurboXML IDE &amp; Schema Editor is also included among the 175 programs on the CD ROM set.<br />This is an overwhelming book for beginners, but is a valuable resource for anyone who is deeply involved in web services, XML and related technologies.  If you fit the latter category this is probably the only XML reference you'll need.	2002-06-25
1499076:US	53037408	R3RJEUEVGA0VGK	047141834X	254160506	Implementing the Capability Maturity Model	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Clear roadmap to levels 2 and 3	The author of this excellent book give a realistic roadmap to achieving CMM levels 2 and 3, which are major hurdles in capability maturity, especially level 2 from a culture-shock point of view.<br />What makes this book realistic is the way you're lead through the important steps, with a complete focus on what it takes instead of theory.  The book starts off with an obligatory overview of the CMM, but quickly segues into the steps needed to attain level 2 (repeatable), which are creating the structures, processes, training program and policies.  While each of these are important, I especially like the inclusion of policies because they are necessary to codify goals and are frequently overlooked. This section also includes subcontractor management, which is important for aligning those with whom you are using on projects with your own organizational capabilities.  This makes sense because if your organization is repeatable and your subcontractor(s) aren't, then you either need to go shopping for more compatible subcontractors, or get dragged back into ad hoc approaches.<br />The same approach to graduating to level 3 is used, with slight changes.  In the section that covers level 3 the first topic is about focusing on organizational process improvement, followed by an in-depth chapter on defining organization processes.  These reflect the key changes between level 2's repeatable goals and level 3's focus on defined processes.  After these are clearly and completely explained the same formula - structures, processes, training program and policies - is addressed for level 3.<br />Following the steps to get to levels 2 and 3, the next section is centered on implementation and assessment.  This section prepares you for the assessment process itself, and offers excellent advice on how to get through it.  Additional information of value is provided in appendices B (Annotated Level 2 Preassessment Questionnaire) and C (Samples of Level 2 Policies), both of which are provided in PDF format from the book's associated web site.<br />One key question that needs to be answered:  Which is better, this book or CMM Implementation Guide: Choreographing Software Process Improvement by Kim Caputo?  My opinion is that both books are equally important and both should be read because they cover two different aspects of attaining CMM levels 2 and above.  This book concerns itself with the nuts and bolts of processes, where Caputo's book is more focused on organizational change.  I recommend both books, and think that they nicely complement each other.ed in PDF format from the book's associated web site.<br />One key question that needs to be answered:  Which is better, this book or CMM Implementation Guide: Choreographing Software Process Improvement by Kim Caputo?  My opinion is that both books are equally important and both should be read because they cover two different aspects of attaining CMM levels 2 and above.  This book concerns itself with the nuts and bolts of processes, where Caputo's book is more focused on organizational change.  I recommend both books, and think that they nicely complement each other.	2002-06-24
1499629:US	53037408	R2TGEIEOTM71BR	0201748150	657594902	E-commerce: Business, Technology, Society	Books	5	28	28	N	N	College text that is based on the realities of e-commerce	This is more than a college text and it's of value to working professionals as well as to professors who want to provide a course that brings real world e-commerce issues into their curriculum.<br />What sets this book apart for the classroom is the web site that supports the book.  This site has subscription services (using the access code that is provided on a card inside the book), which includes book chapters, tutorials, streaming video lectures and more), and instructor services that provide lesson plans, PowerPoint presentations and a test bank.  There are also resources that are open to the general public that are valuable and provide e-commerce news, business plans, and research articles. I like the way that the WWW is integrated into a traditional paper book to provide a comprehensive learning tool that is always up to date and evolving.<br />For the working professional the material in the book (and associated web site) is applicable to real world issues.  What impresses me the most is how the authors manage to comprehensively address topics in business, technology and social issues in 600 pages.  Each section and each topic appears to be carefully selected to impart maximum knowledge on the key issues.  For example, the descriptions, case studies and key concepts in Chapter 2, E-commerce Business Models and Concepts, hits all of the salient points.  Another example, in Chapter 4, Building an E-commerce Web Site, is a discussion of the value of 100% uptime.  These are topics business and IT professionals are struggling with, and it's refreshing to see them included in a college text book.<br />As an IT consultant I found this book to be better than most I've read, and highly recommend it to business and IT professionals because it digs deep below the surface and uncovers the real issues. If you are an instructor or professor this book will allow you to prepare your students for the challenges that they will face on the job - and do so in an interesting manner.ner.	2002-06-24
1500488:US	53037408	R3VWM4NYD6INBW	0201776391	417529307	Winning with Software: An Executive Strategy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	5th book on the topic by Humphrey - aimed at business execs	This book is well written and makes a compelling case for the author's personal and team software processes (PSP and TSP respectively).  Whereas the first four books by Humphrey, published between 1989 and 1999, were aimed at individual software engineers and technical managers, this one is for higher level decision makers who are probably wondering why software development seems to be a money pit while other enterprise business units manage to operate with some degree of efficiency.<br />The case that is made in the book remains focused on business.  More importantly, it shows how to apply productivity accounting and quality techniques defined in both the PSP and TSP can introduce controls to software development.<br />What I like about the book is Humphrey's complete change of tone from his previous books, which were written for technical professionals, to appeal to business executives.  He addresses all of the key points: why projects fail and how to prevent the failures, the need for leadership instead of mere management, and the importance of not only building a team approach, but in changing the culture in the development organization.  These are points that business managers understand in practice, and it shows that development can be a controlled process much like manufacturing or service processes that are likely to be the company's core business. They also dispell the fallacy that software development is different.<br />Although the book stays focused on business aspects, Humphrey does drift off into technical territory at times, sometimes to the point of risking the attention of the business reader.  He also misses an opportunity to show how PSP and TSP are natural fits into organizations that are using Extreme Programming, which would have given the business audience some leverage when dealing with their technical counterparts.  However, that is probably beyond the scope of the book.<br />If you want to trace the evolution of PSP and TSP it's documented in the author's earlier books: Managing the Software Process (1989), A Discipline for Software Engineering [and one of the best in my opinion for its completeness and approach] (1995), Introduction to the Personal Software Process (1996), and Introduction to the Team Software Process (1999).  If you are exploring either the PSP or TSP with a goal of building a business case this book is ideal.  Also note that there are open source tools developed by the Process Dashboard Initiative and distributed at no cost that will greatly aid in implementing the recommendations that are made in this book.nted in the author's earlier books: Managing the Software Process (1989), A Discipline for Software Engineering [and one of the best in my opinion for its completeness and approach] (1995), Introduction to the Personal Software Process (1996), and Introduction to the Team Software Process (1999).  If you are exploring either the PSP or TSP with a goal of building a business case this book is ideal.  Also note that there are open source tools developed by the Process Dashboard Initiative and distributed at no cost that will greatly aid in implementing the recommendations that are made in this book.	2002-06-23
1500510:US	53037408	R3C8YV9WGO1IW9	0201703599	508025051	XML Family of Specifications: A Practical Guide (2 Vol Set)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thorough reference for developers and architects	This book is a comprehensive and up-to-date (as of this review) reference on XML as defined by the W3C.  Part I is more of a desk reference (with a lot of example code), which covers XML syntax, modeling and parsing, DTDs and schemas. Part II, also with many examples, is a complete treatment of parsing with APIs, with separate chapters on SAX, DOM, JDOM and JAXP. Transformation and display protocols are covered in Part III, including CSS2, XSLT and XPath. XSLFO for formatting is also covered in this part.  Xlink and Xpointer to facilitate referencing operations are the subjects of Part IV, and the book wraps up the formal descriptions of the family of specifications in Part V, which covers XHTML and RDF.  I have a personal interest in RDF, and found the chapter devoted to it complete, but terse.  This characterizes all of the chapters in this book.  What makes this book valuable is the way the information is displayed.  Each chapter starts with either an overview or concepts, and each clearly explains each specification and gives clear examples to demonstrate how they work in practice.<br />Appendices at the back of the book are especially valuable because they summarize much of the information in the body of the book.  For example, Appendix A depicts the family of specifications in a format that clearly shows the relationships among them.  In addition, the web site that supports the book provides a lot of supplementary material, including over 900 links to related resources and an image map of the family of specifications that is one of the most visually appealing and informative resources one can have at their disposal. Note that the web site is not up-to-date - some information that was cited as coming in April and May were still not online as of late June.<br />This is not a book for learning XML as much as it's a reference.  The main value over W3C material that is available over the web is the clear writing and many examples.  It reads much better than dry specs and is complete in its coverage.ecs and is complete in its coverage.	2002-06-23
1500559:US	53037408	R3M8I9CM5A71UQ	0201767376	790080677	Building Operational Excellence: Strategies to Improve It People and Processes	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Highly refined approach to attaining IT Ops capability	The objectives of this book are to achieve an operational posture that is based on mature processes and an organizational structure that is efficient and delivers value to the business.<br />The authors take a pragmatic approach by making the distinction between best practices from an industry-wide perspective and selective use of best practices to ensure that only those that make sense in the pursuit of your organization are chosen.  The three fundamental steps that are addressed by this approach are (1) determine your current operational posture, (2) define quality goals and (3) examine the gaps between where you are and where you want to be.  The book is organized to lead you through these three steps in great detail, starting with a definition of best practices (Chapter 1) and laying the foundation by defining tasks and processes and how to move from task- to process-driven methods (Chapter 2).  Gap analysis are process refinement are the topics of Chapter 4, which will provide the level of operational maturity to move to the most efficient model proposed in the book called centers of excellence (COE).  The collection of COEs are comprised of groupings of core processes that are found in mature IT organizations. By grouping these processes in COEs you can achieve end-to-end service delivery as well as economy of scale. On paper it looks logical, but in practice it is not easy to achieve.  In addition if COEs are not carefully structured there can be gaps of responsibility and accountability, which the authors note and provide advice about how to prevent these gaps.  Chapter 5 provides a thorough discussion of metrics, while Chapter 6 ties together the concepts in the previous chapters.<br />The most valuable parts of this book are Chapter 7, which is a complete catalog of core processes ranging from application optimization to workload monitoring (31 processes in all) and Chapter 8, which gives eight COE catalogs.  The processes in Chapter 7 are depicted with two scales ranging from 1 to 10 for automation and stability, with the following 8 characteristics: (1) tasks, (2) skills, (3) staffing, (4) automation technology, (5) best practices, (6) metrics, (7) process integration and (8) futures.  The COE catalogs are slightly different and are structured as follows: (1) attributes, (2) processes, (3) skills, (4) automation, (5) best practices, (6) metrics,  and (7) futures.<br />While I think this is a 5-star book that makes an important contribution to IT operational excellence, it isn't without a few flaws.  I noticed a few minor problems as the book leads you through a typical process-oriented structure to a COE-based one, such as system administration not being placed in one of the COEs.  This is a possible editing error in the book.  I also thought that the 1 to 10 scales for automation and stability were defined too ambiguously and the scales are too fine grained given the arbitrary definitions assigned.  Many of the illustrations were too busy and misleading. However, the material in this book is so well thought out and supported by compelling value propositions that the flaws are easy to overlook. Overall this book represents a major contribution to the small--but growing--body of knowledge about IT operations management.o scales ranging from 1 to 10 for automation and stability, with the following 8 characteristics: (1) tasks, (2) skills, (3) staffing, (4) automation technology, (5) best practices, (6) metrics, (7) process integration and (8) futures.  The COE catalogs are slightly different and are structured as follows: (1) attributes, (2) processes, (3) skills, (4) automation, (5) best practices, (6) metrics,  and (7) futures.<br />While I think this is a 5-star book that makes an important contribution to IT operational excellence, it isn't without a few flaws.  I noticed a few minor problems as the book leads you through a typical process-oriented structure to a COE-based one, such as system administration not being placed in one of the COEs.  This is a possible editing error in the book.  I also thought that the 1 to 10 scales for automation and stability were defined too ambiguously and the scales are too fine grained given the arbitrary definitions assigned.  Many of the illustrations were too busy and misleading. However, the material in this book is so well thought out and supported by compelling value propositions that the flaws are easy to overlook. Overall this book represents a major contribution to the small--but growing--body of knowledge about IT operations management.	2002-06-23
1501939:US	53037408	RYXSPAEUU9FP7	052180342X	638315018	Business Performance Measurement: Theory and Practice	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Informative and coherent collection of papers	This book is a collection of papers that are divided into five parts, all addressing a specific aspect of business performance measurement.  The parts and each paper contained in this book are as follows:<br />Part I. Functional Analyses: 1. Measuring performance: the accounting perspective, 2. Measuring performance: the marketing perspective, 3. Measuring performance: the operations perspective, 4. Finding performance: the new discipline in management.<br />Part II. Theoretical Foundations: 5. A conceptual and operational delineation of performance, 6. Anomalies of measurement: when it works, but should not, 7. Does pay for performance really motivate employees?, 8. Superior managers? tolerance to dysfunctional behaviour: a test.<br />Part III. Frameworks and Methodologies: 9. Performance measurement frameworks: a review, 10. The critical few: first among equals as parameters for measuring strategic effectiveness, 11. Auditing measurement systems, 12. Why measurement initiatives succeed and fail.<br />Part IV. Practical Applications: 13. What really goes on in the name of benchmarking, 14. Measuring marketing performance: in practice, 15. Loosely coupled performance measurement systems, 16. Redefining government performance.<br />Part V. Specific Measures: 17. Customer satisfaction and business performance, 18. Linking financial performance to employee and customer satisfaction, 19. Measuring innovation performance.<br />Part VI. Emerging Issues and Trends: 20. Measuring knowledge work, 21. Measuring ebusiness performance.<br />Each paper is written by an acknowledged expert in his or her field, and each covers their respective topic in depth.  I found each paper to be highly readable and informative, and attribute that to the editor's (Andy Neely) hard work in giving this book a consistent and coherent feel instead of just a collection of disparate articles.  If you're a business systems analyst in IT, a member of a process improvement or reengineering team, or a business process owner who is seeking to understand the finer points of business performance you will find this book to be thought provoking and full of ideas.business process owner who is seeking to understand the finer points of business performance you will find this book to be thought provoking and full of ideas.	2002-06-21
1502227:US	53037408	R7HH7JU4K48V0	0130353892	535868974	Building Professional Services: The Sirens' Song	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Finally!	This is a book that fills a sorely needed gap in the computer consulting industry, and is especially valuable for start-up consulting companies, established companies that want to achieve higher profitability, and for internal IT organizations that are seeking a way to move from a cost center to a profit center.<br />Regardless of your goals or motivations, the first two chapters helps you to clarify your objectives, decide on the appropriate business model and mission statement, and introduces key concepts that will be used throughout the book.  One of the most effective techniques in this section of the book is the way the authors lead you through framing your mission and goals and employing a service alignment risk factor to test the clarity of your mission and how it aligns to other business processes.  This is especially important if technical services is not your core business.<br />Chapters 3 and 4 are, in my opinion, the heart of the book because they address revenue and profitability, and organizational structure - two areas with which many companies struggle.  The information in these chapters will show you what you need to do to become and remain profitable, as well as how to best organize your resources to deliver in accordance with your chosen business model.  For start-ups Chapter 3 provides an excellent framework for business plan pro formas. Chapter 5, Selling, thoroughly covers the critical success factors and metrics for selling services.<br />In chapters 6 through 8 services delivery, productizing and promotion are given the same thorough and insightful treatment.  Of particular value is the customer engagement workflow that is provided in Chapter 11, and the four phases of professional services given in chapter 12.  The phases provide a path by establishing basic implementation services as a service offering, then building upon these to provide integration services, consulting services and productized services - each phase represents an increase in what you offer customers (external or internal).  For each of the phases the authors address the following factors: value proposition, profitability triangle focus, critical skills, required operational infrastructure, target mix, revenue growth rate, target gross margin and target operating profit.<br />I like the way that these (and all of the chapters) end with sample budgets and issues to watch, and the key financial models provided in Appendix D.<br />While this book is, in my opinion, the best starting point for anyone who is involved in establishing and managing technical services or starting a consulting company, \\"PSA: Professional Services Automation\\" by Rudolf Melik, et al is the second book you should read.  That book complements this one, and also covers automating the professional services organization after it has been established.e in what you offer customers (external or internal).  For each of the phases the authors address the following factors: value proposition, profitability triangle focus, critical skills, required operational infrastructure, target mix, revenue growth rate, target gross margin and target operating profit.<br />I like the way that these (and all of the chapters) end with sample budgets and issues to watch, and the key financial models provided in Appendix D.<br />While this book is, in my opinion, the best starting point for anyone who is involved in establishing and managing technical services or starting a consulting company, \\"PSA: Professional Services Automation\\" by Rudolf Melik, et al is the second book you should read.  That book complements this one, and also covers automating the professional services organization after it has been established.	2002-06-21
1502363:US	53037408	R3BFDYTUZ4N1GZ	0138220409	243202835	Software Project Dynamics: An Integrated Approach	Books	5	20	20	N	N	About defining and integrating PM processes - not about PM	This is not a book about project management per se, but a book about how to integrate project management processes into a large software development organization using analysis based on system dynamics.<br />If you are not familiar with system dynamics, it's a methodology for studying and managing complex feedback systems using time graphs and causal loops, and more formal analytical methods such as simulation and exploring alternatives in a structured manner.<br />This book uses those techniques to align project management processes to software development. The best way to determine if this book is right for you is to answer the following questions:<br />- Is your core business software development?<br />- Is your organization at approximately the same level as that described by SEI's CMM for level 3 or above?<br />- Is there a commitment to implement an integrated process that is driven by the executive or board level and does this commitment have a strong sponsor?<br />If the answer to at least two of the above questions is yes, then this book will be valuable.  Also note that some knowledge of system dynamics is assumed.  If you need to become familiar with this discipline I recommend &quot;Business Dynamics: Systems Thinking and Modeling for a Complex World&quot; by John D. Sterman. This book addresses system dynamics from public policy and strategy points of view, but will provide a thorough understanding of the subject.<br />Those who will benefit most from this book are organizations that have found existing PM methodologies to not fully meet objectives.  For example, the U.S. standard based on the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) is too generic for software development, and the U.K. standard called PRINCE2 is not as well suited for product-line and software vendor approaches to development.  While the PMBOK and PRINCE2 contain processes and procedures that can be used, the system dynamics approach defined in this book gives a method for selecting, evaluating and integrating the processes and procedures borrowed from these two standards.  Moreover, since the CMM and related models identify key process areas for project management, they do not prescribe how they are to be implemented. This book will provide the tools and techniques for tailoring the techniques to PM process areas.<br />If your objective is to find a book that describes a complete project management maturity model you will be better served by &quot;Strategic Planning for Project Management Using a Project Management Maturity Model&quot; by Harold Kerzner; if you are looking for an off-the-shelf methodology to use with iterative processes such as the Rational Unified Process I recommend &quot;  Software Project Management: A Unified Framework&quot; by Walker Royce. However, if you are seeking to develop and implement a best-in-class, tailored project management methodology that is seamlessly integrated into your software development processes this book will show you how to achieve that goal.ook gives a method for selecting, evaluating and integrating the processes and procedures borrowed from these two standards.  Moreover, since the CMM and related models identify key process areas for project management, they do not prescribe how they are to be implemented. This book will provide the tools and techniques for tailoring the techniques to PM process areas.<br />If your objective is to find a book that describes a complete project management maturity model you will be better served by &quot;Strategic Planning for Project Management Using a Project Management Maturity Model&quot; by Harold Kerzner; if you are looking for an off-the-shelf methodology to use with iterative processes such as the Rational Unified Process I recommend &quot;                     Software Project Management: A Unified Framework&quot; by Walker Royce. However, if you are seeking to develop and implement a best-in-class, tailored project management methodology that is seamlessly integrated into your software development processes this book will show you how to achieve that goal.	2002-06-21
1502716:US	53037408	R4GG0FTC3AM7Z	0787956406	11908782	The Change Leader's Roadmap: How to Navigate Your Organization's Transformation	Books	5	24	26	N	N	No fluff - provides a clear roadmap to implementing change	If you are involved in organizational change, including the introduction and rollout of new systems, steering company culture and/or reengineering this book is a gem. What sets it apart from other books on the subject is that it has no fluff - it jumps directly into what you need to do and how you need to do it to meet your change objectives.<br />What I like is the step-by-step approach that is process- and project-oriented. As a process the approach is provided as a change process model that meshes with the phases, activities and tasks that are required to effect the change.  Each of these are explained as they are introduced in the book, and are summarized in the appendix. This makes it easy to quickly develop a work breakdown structure, determine resources and create a schedule using project management software.<br />I also like the way the authors sequence the activities and the thoroughness with which they examine details and provide advice, questionnaires and other useful information and tools to cut through the complexities of the change process.<br />Among the growing pile of books I have read on the subject this one is the most pragmatic and provides the clearest path to effectively planning for and implementing change.	2002-06-21
1502731:US	53037408	R3AAVNVGF1ONWN	1883823129	468571508	Systems Thinking Basics: From Concepts to Causal Loops (Pegasus Workbook Series)	Books	5	89	90	N	N	Best used as a course book	At 144 pages this book is a short introductory text and workbook that is designed to introduce systems thinking.  It starts by building an awareness of systems thinking as a discipline, and by providing a series of learning activities that lead you through the basics.<br />The two main techniques that this book teaches are (1) behavior over time graphs and causal loops, both of which are the main tools employed in systems thinking.  These are also the foundation of system dynamics of which systems thinking is a subset (system dynamics uses expanded techniques such as simulation models and analysis of alternatives).<br />What I like about this book is the clear explanation of the basics and the use of illustrations and learning activities.  I also like the summaries of system archetypes and system thinking tools included in the appendices, which provide starting points for further study.  It's not the best book for self-study because it is written more as a workbook than an introductory text.  As such it is best used in an instructor-led course, or in conjunction with more in-depth books about system thinking (my favorite is Systems Thinking: Managing Chaos and Complexity by Jamshid Gharajedaghi).	2002-06-21
1504498:US	53037408	R1X3SMKQQO7H3Y	0849311497	575713375	Enterprise Systems Integration, Second Edition (Best Practices)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	SOlid desk reference that is up-to-date as of 6/18/02	The audience for this book are architecture and integration group members, making this book an ideal addition to group libraries.  The focus is on ERP architecture, although the range of topics overlap into non-ERP domains, and is best used as a desk reference because it's a collection of short papers written by 70+ authors instead of a book that focuses on a specific approach or methodology. The papers comprising this desk reference are organized in logical groupings that are akin to layers in an enterprise architecture.<br />Each section is devoted to carefully chosen papers, some of which reflect individual authors' experience. The strength of this approach is that you benefit from a rich diversity of viewpoints and deep subject matter knowledge. The weakness is that some of the material is inconsistent with what precedes or follows in the book.<br />Since this is a technology-focused book the highlights are that the information is current and reflects issues, methods and technologies that are valid as of the date this review was written.  The editors ensured that information that is not commonly used in ERP integration, such as web services, are not addressed.  This doesn't imply that web services will not play a future key role (such as in PeopleSoft 8), but that most ERP implementations are integrated using middleware, XML and other methods.  The more typical integration methods are covered in great detail, and the sections on database servers and data warehousing are especially informative.<br />I also like the section on Internet commerce, which covers topics ranging from web-based testing and capacity planning to XML-based B2B commerce - topics that are not commonly found in other ERP texts.  The section on project and systems management also contained excellent information, such as the paper titled &quot;Service Level Management Links IT to the Business&quot;, which touches upon a critical aspect of integration. Each of the four papers in the Component-Based Development section also included information that should be carefully considered by large enterprises, especially those that are using off-shore development of off-site contractors to develop modules.  This section goes into each of the major critical issues, including economic considerations, domain engineering, server-side Java development and object library management.<br />Some of the information in this book is time sensitive in that it will be rendered obsolete as web services play a larger role in ERP systems (which is already happening in a sense), and XML and/or ebXML emerge as a core component of all of the major packages, such as SAP, PeopleSoft, Baan, etc.  If you have a defined architecture or integration group this book will make a good investment because of the wide array of topics covered. If, however, you are seeking a book that provides a methodology or focused technology description this book may not be for you.ased Development section also included information that should be carefully considered by large enterprises, especially those that are using off-shore development of off-site contractors to develop modules.  This section goes into each of the major critical issues, including economic considerations, domain engineering, server-side Java development and object library management.<br />Some of the information in this book is time sensitive in that it will be rendered obsolete as web services play a larger role in ERP systems (which is already happening in a sense), and XML and/or ebXML emerge as a core component of all of the major packages, such as SAP, PeopleSoft, Baan, etc.  If you have a defined architecture or integration group this book will make a good investment because of the wide array of topics covered. If, however, you are seeking a book that provides a methodology or focused technology description this book may not be for you.	2002-06-19
1504669:US	53037408	R2WTEBE0SOL65Q	0201748061	754364295	How to Run Successful Projects III: The Silver Bullet (3rd Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Effective techniques and easy reading	I've read more than 50 books on project management, and have reviewed a good number of them, but this is the first one that was fun to read.  The author manages to keep the tone light and conversational, yet touch all of the important aspects of successfully managing software projects.  While I am one of those die hards who doesn't believe in silver bullets--those elusive shortcuts to accomplishing complex tasks--any more than I believe in the tooth fairy, I think that the approach in this book comes close.<br />Although the tone is light, the techniques are solid.  I like the way the author strips away non-essential tasks and focuses on what is essential to successfully managing a project.  He starts with visualizing the goal, which is an exercising in defining project objectives, and introduces a key concept that will be used through the book: Probability of Success Indicator (PSI).  These indicators are checkpoints for ensuring that all critical success factors are satisfied and are closely tied to risk management.  I especially like the common sense way projects are approached - develop a checklist, emphasize leadership and teamwork, carefully plan and manage expectations and communicate.  These are the essence of project management, regardless of whether you are using the U.S. standard set forth in the PMBOK or the UK PRINCE2 approach.  In fact, all of the techniques, including the 10-step methodology given in the book, will work with both the PMBOK and PRINCE2 approaches.<br />Chapters I especially liked covered assessing project plans, issue resolution and how to shorten projects using accelerated analysis and design.  I found some of the appendices valuable as well, especially Appendix 1 (ISO 9000 Estimating Procedure) and Appendix 2 (Structured Project Management, which summarizes the 10-step approach.  If you use MS Project (which I do not), Appendix 6, Learning Microsoft Project 2000, may be useful.<br />The only shortcoming is the lack of earned value as a project control tool, but for small projects this isn't a major issue.  Overall this is an excellent book for new project managers for software development projects and it is also full of tips and techniques that an experienced project manager will appreciate.as a project control tool, but for small projects this isn't a major issue.  Overall this is an excellent book for new project managers for software development projects and it is also full of tips and techniques that an experienced project manager will appreciate.	2002-06-19
1504735:US	53037408	R3J54HBJ70VAA8	0750670886	472382834	Knowledge and Strategy (Knowledge Reader)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Practical and informative	This unique and information rich book manages to tie intellectual capital to competitive advantage together in practical terms.  What makes this book different from most is that other books tend to either focus on knowledge management as a process or go deep into details of that discipline, or treat the value of knowledge in theoretical terms with no solid link between competitive advantage and organizational knowledge.<br />Part I of the book covers resource-based strategies and how they support competitive advantage, with knowledge and intellectual capital as the primary resource.  Part II extends the business imperatives by providing a resource-based view of knowledge itself and how it relates to organizational strategy.  In Part III a compelling case is developed with a central theme that knowledge is a strategic asset.  While few would dispute this fact, putting it into practice and incorporating this into organizational culture is the tricky part.  The three chapters in this part of the book provide the basis for a value proposition to begin assimilating this into the corporate culture.  Part IV is where it all comes together with four chapters that cover issues that will be encountered when integrating knowledge and strategy.<br />Chapters that I thought were particularly valuable or on the mark include: Knowledge and Competence as Strategic Assets (Chapter 9), Strategic Analysis of Intangible Resources (Chapter 10), and Leveraging Intellect (Chapter 15).  Each of these were exceptionally well written and highlighted and synthesized the key theme of the book.  If you're interested in linking knowledge to strategy for competitive advantage this book provides clarity and is full of ideas.  I also recommend &quot;CyberRegs: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents&quot; by Bill Zoellick, especially Part II (Patents), which shows how to further leverage intellectual capital.	2002-06-19
1504976:US	53037408	R29NCOGVKWUUVC	3540652493	715375735	Perspectives on Business Modelling: Understanding and Changing Organisations	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For experienced business modelers - short on technques	This book is not about modeling techniques.  Instead it's a compendium of papers that address the underlying issues and factors related to business modeling from the point of view of business imperatives and requirements.  The papers are grouped in three parts: (I) Development on Different Levels, which addresses foundation material in the form of case studies that underscore the value of process modeling for specific companies; (II) Exploration of Different Points of View, which covers aspects of modeling techniques at a high level with an emphasis on IT and business alignment; and (III) Description of Different Aspects, which covers specific tools and approaches.<br />Each paper is written by a subject matter expert, and each exposes key factors that need to be considered when selecting and using a particular modeling technique.  Techniques are not addressed in detail; however, as an analyst who uses both UML and IDEF0 I found that the book supports those two widely divergent methods.  This is because of the focus of the book, especially with respect to organizational change and business-to-IT alignment that are addressed in Section II, and the tools and checklists provided in Section III.<br />The ideal audience for this book is someone who is experienced in one or more modeling methodologies, with a good understanding of business processes and technology integration. Readers who are new to business modeling will be frustrated by the diversity of the topics and the absence of techniques. The experienced modeler, on the other hand, will find this book to be a treasure trove of facts and information.	2002-06-19
1504985:US	53037408	RLAHSWHYWM53O	1574443038	867869942	Totally Integrated Enterprises: A Framework and Methodology for Business and Technology Improvement	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent business and technical overviews of ERP	This book bridges the business and IT domains.  It educates business process owners on the capabilities and technologies that provide tools to support operations, and gives IT insights into how to best develop and deploy systems that meet business requirements.<br />Integration is assumed to be within the context of ERP systems, which are enterprise-wide in scope. The level of detail is kept reasonably high so that both audiences can easily grasp the key issues and understand the challenges and needs of the other.  What I like about the book is the fact that it never loses sight of business requirements, and the manner in which it stays focused on quality and real world issues.  I also like the way case studies are used to reinforce some of the more abstract aspects of enterprise integration.<br />Highlights of this book that will interest both business and IT include:<br />- Totally Integrated Enterprise Goals and Agile Enterprise, which give a business framework for the technology solutions that are discussed later in the book<br />- Methodology for Understanding Enterprises, which places integration and technology into the context of meeting business requirements<br />- Business Development and Product Management, which provide insights to IT about the challenges that their business constituents face and their support requirements<br />Because this book is a high level view of enterprise integration many details that support the decision to employ integrated systems and how to implement them are missing.  However, the true value of this book is the way it brings together business and technical information and the way the authors have managed to address both groups that are normally widely separated.<br />If you are seeking a book about deciding whether of not to implement an enterprise-wide system I recommend &quot;Enterprise Resource Planning Systems: Systems, Life Cycle, Electronic Commerce, and Risk&quot; by Daniel Edmund O'Leary. If you are more interested in an implementation methodology I recommend &quot;E-Business and ERP: Rapid Implementation and Project Planning&quot; by Murrell G. Shields.in an implementation methodology I recommend &quot;E-Business and ERP: Rapid Implementation and Project Planning&quot; by Murrell G. Shields.	2002-06-19
1505473:US	53037408	RM5UGN60BQ4JP	1580530508	480093855	Systems Modeling for Business Process Improvement	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Technology oriented collection of essays	This book is technology-focused with an emphasis on software-to-business alignment from the perspectives of quality and fit.  It's a collection of papers that cover the range of related topics, including systems dynamics, object-oriented business process modeling, exploiting knowledge in adaptive workflow systems and modeling and metrics techniques.<br />Process improvement strategies are related to software quality and are highlighted in two chapters: (1) ISO 15504, SPICE (Software Process Improvement Capability dEtermination) and FEAST/1 (Feedback, Evolution And Software Technology), which was sponsored by Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).  The material on FEAST/1 has been superseded by FEAST/2, but is still valid.  Both SPICE and FEAST/1 chapters provide evaluation frameworks for determining software processes, which in turn is an indicator of how well systems modeling aligns to aspects of business processes.<br />The chapters which I felt were especially useful dealt with requirements and modeling, including:<br />- &quot;Information Systems Specifications within the Framework of Client-Led Design&quot;<br />- &quot;Developing a Business-IT Co-Evolutionary Change Plan&quot;<br />- &quot;Relating Organizational Symbiotics, Process Modeling, and Stakeholder Viewpoints to Elucidate and Record Requirements&quot;<br />- &quot;Modeling Organizational Communication: Top Down Analysis &amp; Bottom Up Diagnosis&quot;<br />These reflect my current professional interests; however, I also gained insights from the chapter on FEAST/1 and  &quot;Modeling Information System Requirements for Complex Systems&quot;, both of which were thought provoking and addressed subtle issues that I hadn't previously thought of.<br />This book is not a primary text on business process modeling.  It is most useful to experienced process improvement and requirements analysts and modeling professionals. Also not that much of the material needs to be force-fit to approaches such as UML, but does supplement UML and Unified Process methodologies if you keep an open mind and extract the key ideas presented.h as UML, but does supplement UML and Unified Process methodologies if you keep an open mind and extract the key ideas presented.	2002-06-18
1505674:US	53037408	R23EZTIGFTXTS4	0471132691	754074446	Manufacturing Data Structures: Building Foundations for Excellence with Bills of Materials and Process Information	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Highly focused and essential for any ERP analyst/developer	This book is an essential reference for ERP analysts, developers and DBAs.  It is unique in that it addresses data requirements for materials management within the context of manufacturing processes, with an emphasis on bills of materials.<br />The chapter on engineering change control stands out because this aspect of both data structures and process change management are not covered (or only lightly touched upon) in other ERP references.  This chapter and its companion on implementing change add significant value to the book and reflect mature and best practices.  I also liked the chapter on new product introduction and custom manufacturing because these aspects of the manufacturing process come with a different set of challenges and requirements from steady production processes.<br />Regardless of whether you're using SAP, Baan or another ERP package (or are developing custom applications to automate manufacturing materials management) this book will expose the relevant details of the data structures, which are the foundation of any application.	2002-06-18
1506202:US	53037408	R3QBQ3DQD8EKYL	1878289683	289826423	Process Think: Winning Perspectives for Business Change in the Information Age	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mature Organizational Change Ideas and Practices	This book is one of the best repositories of ideas and practical information about organizational change management that I've come across.  While I've been heavily influenced by many of Thomas H. Davenport's books, I've found a wealth of fresh ideas in this book because each chapter is a paper written by one or more experts in a specific aspect of organizational change.  I also like the way the book is organized into four sections that examine change and process.<br />Part I is among my favorites because each of the five chapters build upon each other to provide a clearly defined map for defining and implementing change strategies. Part II's three chapters drill down into the mechanics of processes and how they fit within the context of a change management strategy.  I especially like chapter 7, which covers gap analysis and a framework with which to identify, define and understand business processes at a level that allows you to see the dependencies and impacts of proposed changes.  I also like chapter 8, which links IT strategic planning to enterprise processes.  This is a major gap that I find in one consulting engagement after another and the information in this chapter will provide a clear--if briefly described--approach to closing that gap.<br />More advanced process management topics are covered in Part III, are each of the five chapters can be read as standalone papers.  My favorite was &quot;The New Waves of Business Process Redesign and IT in Demand/Supply Chain Management&quot;, which reflects professional interests.  Other chapters that are equally valuable cover process innovation, reengineering effectiveness and business process impact case studies.<br />The final four chapters that comprise Part IV are predictions about the nature of IT and services in this century. Each are interesting and will contain ideas that can be incorporated into current projects or future plans.<br />Overall this book is invaluable because it provides the points of view of a large number of academic and industry experts, and all of the material can be put into practice.of a large number of academic and industry experts, and all of the material can be put into practice.	2002-06-18
1511492:US	53037408	RQXBNLRUKA4SY	027364436X	393750105	Project Workout: A Toolkit for reaping the rewards from all your business projects (2nd Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Superb book for PM processes and PMO	This is one of the few books that covers project management as a coherent process while providing detailed guidance for enterprise-level program management.<br />The project management processes covered are strikingly similar to PRINCE2 (the UK PM standard), especially with respect to organizational structure.  If your approach is aligned to the US standard set forth in the Project Management Institute's PMBOK you discover that you'll have to compensate for gaps between the author's approach and the PMBOK.  An example of where such a gap exists is in the chapter on project accounting, where status reporting is not consistent with earned value, which the PMBOK now covers.  There are other such gaps in the way process flows are presented.  However, this book contains so much valuable information and such a strong approach to managing projects at the enterprise level that the effort to fill in the gaps will be repaid many times over with an approach to project and program management that is absent in the PMBOK.<br />What distinguishes this book and why I think it's invaluable include:<br />(1) Strong emphasis on making a business case quantifying project benefits up front, and managing stakeholder expectations.<br />(2) Focus on deliverables instead of managing to a Gantt chart.<br />(3) Viable approach for managing project portfolios, which is a true enterprise-approach to program management and an excellent framework for establishing and managing a PMO.<br />(4) Copious details about the important aspects of project management, including handling issues, quality, and resources.<br />I particularly like the staged approach to managing projects, which is consistent with PRINCE2, and the use of 'quality gates' as stage entry and exit criteria.  I also like the way the book steps you through how to properly set up and manage a single project, then a collection of projects, and finally a portfolio of projects.  It is here that the PMO concept starts to become clear and structured, and where the book has the most value to organizations that are struggling with establishing a PMO.<br />The CD ROM that comes with the book is, in my opinion, more of a novelty than a collection of useful artifacts.  The documents are in Acrobat format, making them nearly useless you have the full version of that program, and cumbersome to modify if you do.  I would have preferred documents in rich text format, which can be edited by any word processor (MS Word, StarOffice, etc.).  However, the forms and checklists are also provided in the book and can be easily replicated.<br />If your goal is to establish and manage a PMO this book is worth its weight in gold. It's also valuable to project managers who are seeking advanced, proven techniques for single project management.  If you fit either of these criteria I also recommend TOTAL PROJECT CONTROL by Stephen A. Devaux, which contains advanced PM and PMO techniques that complement this book nicely.d, and where the book has the most value to organizations that are struggling with establishing a PMO.<br />The CD ROM that comes with the book is, in my opinion, more of a novelty than a collection of useful artifacts.  The documents are in Acrobat format, making them nearly useless you have the full version of that program, and cumbersome to modify if you do.  I would have preferred documents in rich text format, which can be edited by any word processor (MS Word, StarOffice, etc.).  However, the forms and checklists are also provided in the book and can be easily replicated.<br />If your goal is to establish and manage a PMO this book is worth its weight in gold. It's also valuable to project managers who are seeking advanced, proven techniques for single project management.  If you fit either of these criteria I also recommend TOTAL PROJECT CONTROL by Stephen A. Devaux, which contains advanced PM and PMO techniques that complement this book nicely.	2002-06-12
1518782:US	53037408	RU82Z0DRS05TT	0849312728	330967426	The Complete Book of Middleware	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Covers major vendor offerings and middleware in general	This collection of papers is divided among eight major topic areas, each on a specific middleware category.  The main value of this book is the wide range of technologies and vendor solutions, and the fact that it's up to date (at the time of this review).<br />I like the complete coverage of both transaction and queuing approaches, and the vendor-specific information that includes Microsoft's .NET and Sun's Java, as well as everything in between.  The sections database middleware and middleware performance are especially valuable because they are more generic and applicable to a wider audience than the MS- and Java-centric sections.<br />While individual papers have a slight vendor bias, the book as a whole is vendor neutral. This is not a book for learning about middleware as much as a good description of what's currently available and their strengths and weaknesses.  If you are looking for a more general book I recommend Chris Britton's &quot;IT Architectures and Middleware: Strategies for Building Large, Integrated Systems&quot; for the fundamentals, and David Linthicum's &quot;B2B Application Integration&quot; for a detailed text on how to employ middleware in practice.  However, this book will give vendor-specific details and a more up-to-date view of middleware that are missing from Britton's and Linthicum's books.  If you're a system architect or consultant this book is an excellent desk reference.	2002-06-06
1518815:US	53037408	RMOPKGNPGABWT	1890009946	783659965	Smart Business	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Serendipity	I purchased this book on a whim expecting another mediocre book on IT business investment.  Instead I got a deeply influential book about how to effectively assure project success and realize best value from IT investments.<br />This book maintains a brisk, but easy-to-follow pace - by page 18 you get nine unwarranted beliefs about the reasons who IT initiatives fail and well crafted counter arguments to dispel them. This leads into a well written chapter on pathologies of failure and patterns of disaster, which the rest of the book addresses in the form of a methodology that integrates risk, value and gap analysis to give a clear map to assuring success.<br />Part I contains seven chapters that discuss the underlying elements of the methods, including risk management, value management, process management, measurement and assessment.  These are the knowledge areas and tools.  Among the tools are business initiative value assessments, business knowledge value, progress and performance curves, and risk-to-value analysis.<br />Part II consists of seven more chapters that provide case studies to illustrate a failed project and how the authors' methods apply.  Five of the chapters in this section deal in detail with closing leadership, knowledge, process, resources and judgement gaps. One of the core measurements used is knowledge, experience and performance used to identify and close gaps that threaten project and IT initiatives.<br />I especially liked the way the authors frame value propositions, which includes a list of 22 major values (each of which can have many sub values), and how these are divided into hard and soft values.  What makes this useful is the fact that each value can be quantified. These are augmented by five key questions about the value proposition to validate it. In each of the gaps discussed in Part II are equally useful checklists and questions.  This material transforms the authors' approach from theory to the practical and is one of the reasons I was deeply influenced by the book.<br />There are also parts of the book that I take issue with:  the authors never miss an opportunity to 'plug' their consulting company.  This is more of an irritant than a real problem.  Also, as I was reading the book it seemed as though I would need their services in order to get a complete picture.  As it turns out everything you need is in the book, but it was still a distraction.  Quibbles aside I think that the approach the authors give in this book and the valuable checklists and questionnaires that are included make this one of the best books one can reference for assuring the success of IT initiatives.s I was deeply influenced by the book.<br />There are also parts of the book that I take issue with:  the authors never miss an opportunity to 'plug' their consulting company.  This is more of an irritant than a real problem.  Also, as I was reading the book it seemed as though I would need their services in order to get a complete picture.  As it turns out everything you need is in the book, but it was still a distraction.  Quibbles aside I think that the approach the authors give in this book and the valuable checklists and questionnaires that are included make this one of the best books one can reference for assuring the success of IT initiatives.	2002-06-06
1521793:US	53037408	R359WF3P98RA66	007044093X	370294859	Software Reliability: Measurement, Prediction, Application (McGraw-Hill Series in Software Engineering and Technology)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Seminal book that is still up-to-date	This book is classified as a seminal work in that it was the first mainstream book to address software reliability.  The author is considered to be one of the founders of the discipline.  Although the body of knowledge has grown significantly since this book was first published it remains a valid text because unlike technology, the underlying math and modeling are nearly timeless.  The book serves as an introduction to software reliability as a discipline, and gives a solid foundation of the basics.  Be aware that this is a math-intensive text and requires both statistics and probability skills.  You also need a background in software development to fully benefit from this book (although the author provides appendices to fill in knowledge and experience gaps if your background isn't strong or recent).<br />Software and hardware reliability concepts, common reliability models and how the concepts and models apply to systems engineering and project management are provided to set context.  The next part of the book goes into the practical application of reliability models and techniques.  This part of the book is complete and covers all of the key elements of software reliability from design, development and implementation perspectives.<br />This book is more suited to college-level courses on software reliability. The author's later work, &quot;Software Reliability Engineered Testing&quot;, is better suited for real world application because it approaches reliability from process and methodology perspectives and is more focused on practice than theory.  However, this is still useful as a primer for practicing professionals.	2002-06-03
1522953:US	53037408	R1HFX4KEGR39YS	1931777020	653882132	Data Warehousing and Web Engineering	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wide survey of data mining and data warehousing issues	This is a collection of papers that cover salient issues in data warehousing with an emphasis on business intelligence, data mining and knowledge management applications.  While many of the papers in this book are more useful to technical professionals, there is a lot of material that will also be useful to marketing and competitive intelligence specialists in the business domain.<br />Some of the papers are more basic and introductory, such as &quot;Justification of Data Warehousing Projects&quot;, &quot;An Introduction to Information Technology and Business Intelligence&quot; and &quot;Some Issues in Design of Data Warehousing Systems&quot;.  Some, however, address advanced topics such as &quot;Data Mining Methods Databases and Statistics Point of Views&quot; and  &quot;Incremental Data Allocation and Reallocation in Distributed Database Systems&quot;.<br />My personal favorite papers were &quot;Specification of Components Based on the WebComposition Component Model&quot; (reflecting professional interests in component-based development), &quot;Complementing the Data Warehouse with Information Filtered from the Web&quot;, and &quot;Using Business Rules Within a Design Process of Active Databases&quot; (another area of professional interest).<br />In addition, the papers cover topics in data mining, data quality and knowledge management, which means that there is at least a few papers that will intersect with a reader's professional interests. The best audience for this book includes academics (the papers are citable), consultants who specialize in business intelligence and data mining, and organizations that have a solid base of experience with advanced uses of data warehousing.	2002-06-02
1523180:US	53037408	R2OAZFC5G66O7	0471412546	35612939	Data Warehousing Fundamentals: A Comprehensive Guide for IT Professionals	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Superb &amp; filled with useful and practical info	This is one of the best introductory books on data warehousing I've read.  The authors make few assumptions of reader knowledge beyond the fact that they are IT professionals who have a technical background that doesn't necessarily include database and data warehouse knowledge.  They do assume a basic knowledge of IT operations, project management skills and systems analysis and design - skills that IT professionals are expected to have.<br />The book is divided into five parts: Overview and Concepts, Planning and Requirements, Architecture and Infrastructure, Data Design and Data Preparation, and Implementation and Maintenance. These follow a development life cycle, making the structure of the book easy to follow.<br />What I like about this book is it doesn't just cover the theory and concepts (which it does do well), but sets data warehousing in the context of a larger architecture designed to meet specific business requirements.  I also like the way the authors address real world issues such as planning and managing a data warehouse project, and the issues and factors surrounding adding a data warehouse into an existing technical architecture.  This information is what IT professionals are seeking when they are faced with a technology with which they may not have strong knowledge, and it makes this book useful to the intended audience.<br />Among the chapters that I most liked are: Principles of Dimensional Modeling, Data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading, and Data Quality: A Key to Success.  These capture the essence of data warehousing in my opinion and are topics that IT professionals without a data background need to understand.  I also thought that each of the appendices were useful. They provided a finishing touch by covering project life cycle steps and checklists, critical success factors and guidelines for evaluating vendor solutions - each of which provide practical information.	2002-06-02
1523447:US	53037408	R3P8TX5TJ55300	9810206402	761913875	Software Reliability Modelling (Series on Quality, Reliability and Engineering Statistics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still valid despite age and necessary foundation material	Although this book is 11 years old the material is as useful today to software engineers who are seeking foundation material about reliability modeling as when it was first written.  If you're working with software reliability your primary resources are probably by John D. Musa. Unlike John D. Musa's body of work, the latest of which is &quot;Software Reliability Engineered Testing&quot;, this book does not prescribe a process or methodology, but concentrates instead on the underlying math.<br />The book starts with Introduction to Software Reliability and Elements of Software Reliability Modelling to provide a context.  Next are chapters on the underlying math and techniques, and how they apply to reliability modelling. These include chapters on Markov Models, Nonhomogeneous Poisson Process (NHPP) Models, Static Models, Bayesian Analysis and Modelling, Statistical Data Analysis Techniques and Determination of Optimum Release Time.<br />This book will not replace or supplant the growing body of knowledge about reliability modeling, but does provide all of the requisite knowledge factors and techniques to effectively model software reliability.	2002-06-02
1523492:US	53037408	R1LX8CCSXA5PN7	157820092X	280274639	The Unified Process Transition and Production Phases : Best Practices in Implementing the UP	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Closes gaps in the Unified Process (or any other SDLC)	In the Unified Process (or any systems life cycle) the milestones/phases up to transition are well documented, but these represent the tip of the iceberg with respect to determining project success and total cost of ownership.  This unique book examines the transition and production support requirements, addressing some of the deficiencies in the Unified Process (production support is all but ignored), and can be applied to other development life cycle models, nearly all of which have the same blind spots.<br />Many of the ideas and the approach for this book were born in the author's earlier book, &quot;  More Process Patterns&quot;, which examined the very transition and support requirements in a more generic manner. In fact this book, like the earlier one, is a collection of best practice patterns that cover the transition and production milestones.  After an introduction that explains the rationale and approach, the book covers the workflows and patterns in the sequence in which they will occur: testing, deployment and environment, operations and support, project management and infrastructure management.<br />What makes this book important is that it extends the Unified Process to include the key milestones that account for cost and quality, and goes into great detail about what is required and how to avoid failure.  If you work in operations and support you will find the material in this book invaluable - you should also buy copies for key members of the project team that is delivering your system so they have an understanding of and appreciation for the task of supporting their creation.  While this book will obviously benefit shops that employ the Unified Process, the information and workflows are equally useful in any development approach.	2002-06-02
1523813:US	53037408	R3LPQHA0TRUDKN	0471230189	885783588	PSA: Professional Services Automation: Optimizing Project and Service Oriented Organizations	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Definitive reference and unique source of information	This is, to the best of my knowledge, the only book that covers professional services from a technical workforce and consulting perspective.  In the past I gleaned information and techniques from books about managing professional services from the perspective of law firms and other industries - good information to be sure, but fell short of the realities of technical services.<br />What I like about this book is the complete look at professional service management, with an emphasis on both personnel and cost management.  I especially like the way the authors show how to go beyond mere cost management to optimize revenue and profit.  The information and strategies they provide reflect extensive experience and a strong focus on the business aspects of professional services. I also like the ties to customer relationship management and various types of services, and the PSA components.  This first decomposes the components of professional services management (manual or automated) into the critical success factors, then reconnects them into a coherent whole.<br />Although this book is about automating professional services management, most of the information, especially part 2, can be used effectively without automation.  Therein lies the main value of this book and the reason why I think it's simply the singlemost important book a professional services manager can have. In order to get the information collected between the covers of this book you'd have to purchase a pile of related books from other industries, and spend a significant amount of time reading articles and surfing the net.  If you are a professional services manager you already know that you don't have time for that.  If you're being placed in a professional services management position you *need* this book.	2002-06-01
1523820:US	53037408	RC3YY87GZTL9A	0814405533	802914895	A Guide to Software Package Evaluation & Selection: The R2ISC Method	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Practical and solid approach to selecting software	This book provides both selection criteria and a process in which to apply them.  It's based on the author's R2ISC method.  This method stands for Requirements (current and future), Implementability, Supportability and Cost. Both the criteria and the process are provided in detail and in a step-by-step approach, which has the following benefits:<br />(1) Ensures that the major selection factors are thoroughly examined.<br />(2) Reduces cost and technical risks by examining those aspects of the selection.<br />(3) Addresses the alignment of requirements to business needs, which is often overlooked when IT is entrusted to perform selections (the main failure I've observed is that IT gets too caught up in technical details and features without looking at the way packages support business requirements - this book's approach will prevent that from happening if followed).<br />Criteria in more detail are:<br />- Current requirements: how well does the package being evaluated map to current<br />business needs<br />- Future requirements: can the package being evaluated be modified to support future business needs (which you will need to forecast).<br />- Implementability: what is required to implement the package (how well does it fit into your existing technical environment and strategic technology plan)<br />- Supportability: How much training is required?  Are special skills needed that need to be hired or contracted?  Are there impacts to existing systems, processes and workload?<br />- Cost:  TCO - total cost of ownership. What will ongoing support, including vendor contracts, cost.  This is where the real surprises emerge because the initial costs of a package are but a fraction of the true cost.<br />The R2ISC process is straightforward and looks deceptively easy at a high level.  It consists of the following Set the Goal (rate each package under evaluation against the R2ISC criteria), Narrow the Field (the short list), Select the Winner and Sign the Contract.  The last step is the one that is fraught with peril and can undo the best evaluation if the contract is improperly negotiated.  The book gives excellent pointers.<br />If you are faced with software selection this book will give you a clear set of criteria and a process.  Be aware that the approach looks easier on paper than it is in practice. This is not a criticism of the book or the approach, both of which are excellent, but a warning that the process takes hard work and due diligence - two ingredients that no book can provide.he one that is fraught with peril and can undo the best evaluation if the contract is improperly negotiated.  The book gives excellent pointers.<br />If you are faced with software selection this book will give you a clear set of criteria and a process.  Be aware that the approach looks easier on paper than it is in practice. This is not a criticism of the book or the approach, both of which are excellent, but a warning that the process takes hard work and due diligence - two ingredients that no book can provide.	2002-06-01
1524017:US	53037408	R2OEE8E95QBP81	0805821341	180403091	Situation Awareness Analysis and Measurement	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent book with wider appeal than just intended audience	This book is a collection of papers that address exactly what the title implies - how to analyze and measure situation awareness qualities of systems.  The most obvious uses for this specialized human factors discipline is in safety-critical combat systems, with a good deal of the body of knowledge coming from military and commercial aviation.  My perspective is different - I purchased this book to glean knowledge and techniques for application in the design of large scale IT systems management.  I was not disappointed.<br />This three part, 16 chapter book starts with a brief introduction to situation awareness theory and concepts, and gives a synopsis of the current body of knowledge and state of the art.<br />Part II covers measurement approaches with nine chapters (each are individual papers written by experts in their respective fields), that cover topics ranging from the use of SA in critical incident reports to testing and metrics.  I found two thirds of these papers helpful to my narrow purposes, which are outside of the SA field.  That alone speaks highly of the book and the wide applicability of the material it addresses.  Part III addressed special topics, and of the five papers I found four directly applicable to my learning objectives.<br />As I was reading this book it because apparent that SA is a topic that touches disciplines outside of the domain in which it's traditionally used.  For example, a software game designer (which I am not) could learn much about developing user interfaces that maximize the user experience. On the business side, developers who design decision support systems would find many of the ideas and concepts extremely useful, as would any analyst or developer who is designing advanced user interfaces (hardware or software) for interactive systems.  In my opinion this book is a hidden gem that changed my thinking and approach about situation awareness on a number of levels.  I also recommend &quot;The Power of Events: An Introduction to Complex Event Processing in Distributed Enterprise Systems&quot; by David Luckham as a companion to this book for readers who are in software and hardware engineering disciplinesion to Complex Event Processing in Distributed Enterprise Systems&quot; by David Luckham as a companion to this book for readers who are in software and hardware engineering disciplines	2002-06-01
1525988:US	53037408	R2H3R67393CI0T	0521771641	635584437	Foundations of Component-Based Systems	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Useful as a secondary resource to the right audience	This book is an excellent secondary companion to \\"Component Based Software Engineering\\"  by Heineman and Councill. It is a secondary text for practitioners and academics that will provide insights into a narrow slice of component-based software engineering issues.<br />Organization is a collection of papers that are grouped in four sections:<br />(1) Frameworks and Architectures.  Consists of four papers of which I particularly liked Key Concepts in Architecture Definition Languages and Acme: Architectural Description of Component-Based Systems because of professional interests in ADLs.<br />(2) Object-Based Specification and Verification. The three papers in this section were focused on narrow topics; however, I gained much from Modular Specification and Verification Techniques for Object-Oriented Software Components.  This paper alone made the book worthwhile to me, but this is a subjective remark with which you may not agree.<br />(3) Formal Methods and Semantics.  Each of the three papers in this section were, in my opinion, valuable.  My favorite, Toward a Normative Theory for Component-Based System Design and Analysis, contained a viable framework and approach to component design, which is a topic that receives little coverage in other component-based books.<br />(4) Reactive and Distributed Systems.  The two papers in this section are interesting in that their topics intersect nicely with the discipline of semantic web engineering.  If your interests or work also includes that knowledge area then the papers (Composition of Reactive System Components and Using I/O Automata for Developing Distributed Systems)will 'connect the dots' in a manner of speaking.<br />Much of the material in this book is academic and/or theoretical, but is backed up with results from projects and supporting project data.  What I like most is that the material uses tools and technologies that are hot topics, such as UML, EJB and COM.	2002-05-30
1526094:US	53037408	R2YHTFQQ4013FC	0201737914	386148563	Component-Based Product Line Engineering with UML	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A primary text on CBSW with unique features	Until I read this book my primary text on the topic was \\"Component Based Software Engineering\\"  by Heineman and Councill.  This book now shares the distinction of being a primary source of information and deservedly so.<br />Where most books on the subject cover the component-based development life cycle at a high level with an emphasis on the development, deployment and QA aspects, this one is about requirements and design.  That is what sets it apart and an important work. It becomes even more important if you are using or trying to adapt the Unified Process to a component-based environment. Obviously if your environment also includes product line development the value of this book increases even more.<br />The book contains five parts which build upon each other.  Part 1 is a thorough, 60-page introduction that compares and contrasts development life cycles, summarizes the approach the book proposes, and the concepts, artifacts and process associated with \\"KobrA\\" (a German abbreviation for \\"Component-based application development\\".<br />Part 2 is devoted to component modeling based on the KobrA component model, and covers all aspects in 153 pages.  This part ends with an excellent introduction to patterns and UML, which lays the groundwork for the next part. The information in this part drills down into requirements and specifications, which is one of the reasons I cited above that sets this book apart.<br /> In  Part 3 (Embodiment) refinement and translation, component reuse and incremental development are covered in detail.  Part 4 introduces and covers product line, framework and application engineering.  It is here that the KobrA foundation laid in the previous parts begins to become coherent and the viability of the approach becomes apparent.<br />Part 5 is my favorite because, like Part 2, it gives a view of component-based development that most books gloss over. In particular, the chapters on maintenance and QA are filled with information that reflects the realities of component-based development, and the chapter on quality modeling is among the best treatments of the topic in any book or paper I've recently read.  The 60 pages of appendices are also valuable sources of information and knowledge about metamodels, maintenance and process.  I found this book to be an invaluable reference and recommend it to anyone who is heavily involved in component-based software engineering in conjunction with product line development.rmation that reflects the realities of component-based development, and the chapter on quality modeling is among the best treatments of the topic in any book or paper I've recently read.  The 60 pages of appendices are also valuable sources of information and knowledge about metamodels, maintenance and process.  I found this book to be an invaluable reference and recommend it to anyone who is heavily involved in component-based software engineering in conjunction with product line development.	2002-05-30
1528283:US	53037408	R1FG0CW4APK790	0792386450	749677724	Validation and Verification of Knowledge Based Systems: Theory, Tools and Practice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A gem for the right audience	This collection of papers are the proceedings from the EUROVAV'99 conference, and represent a even mix of theoretical and technical topics.<br />The burning questions and their answers will help you make a purchasing decision:<br />IS IT OUTDATED?  Although over 3 years old, the papers and the information they provide are invaluable to advanced practitioners who are involved in the design, implementation and managment of knowledge based systems.<br />WHO WILL FIND IT USEFUL? The most appropriate audience will be the SQA and quality teams who are responsible for verifying and validating the system.  As such this book provides that audience with unique insights that are not available in any more general text on system quality assurance and testing. Knowledge management analysts and data quality specialists will also find many of the papers applicable.<br />HOW MUCH OF THE MATERIAL IS PRACTICAL?  I found the papers under the following chapters to be reasonably practical:  Safety critical KBS, Knowledge Revision and Refinement and Applications.<br />Some of the writing is stilted.  In fact, none of the papers in this collection are what one would call 'page turners'. However, for the audience I cited above the book has value because much of the content is still as valid as it was in 1999.  The book earns high marks for completeness and for filling a unique niche, but is not intended to be a primary or fundamental text on any of the topics covered.<br />I found the papers to be useful to my purposes, which focused on V&amp;V of community- and portal-based system used to manage knowledge. The key questions to determine if this book will be valuable to you are: (1) Does your organization have extremely mature software engineering processes in place?  (2) Do you or your staff) have advanced skills in knowledge management systems? (3) Is a formal system if IV&amp;V or V&amp;V in place?  If the answer to all three is yes, then this book will be valuable.  If yes to two out of three, then it's a judgement call.ut of three, then it's a judgement call.	2002-05-28
1528762:US	53037408	R2VJBXVZT23NC0	0971056900	730628587	Decision Analysis for the Professional	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent refresher and reference for working professionals	This book is an excellent intermediate-level text on decision analysis that deals with both uncertainty and risk.  It uses realistic examples that working professionals will appreciate and to which they can relate.<br />It's written as a tutorial that uses two tools, Sensitivity, which is used with the chapters dealing with decisions under uncertainty, and Supertree for developing decision trees related to risk analysis.  Instructions on obtaining the student versions of these programs are included in the book.  Note that the student version of Supertree accommodates trees with up to 250 endpoints, and the student version of Sensitivity performs sensitivity for up to 12 variables.<br />My most used text on decision analysis is Making Hard Decisions by Robert T. Clemen.  Where that book is more comprehensive, it's also less suitable for the working professional who needs a refresher and a desk reference.  Therein lies the main value of this book - it's more aligned to real world problems that you'll find in the workplace and is written to be both a tutorial and a reference.	2002-05-28
1529006:US	53037408	RWZSE10HCIZ9B	1852335556	514329273	Coping with IS/IT Risk Management: The Recipes of Experienced Project Managers (Practitioner Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Finally - a book on risk management that's fun to read	This is probably one of the most unique books on IT project risk management in that it doesn't go into the process and techniques of risk management, but in the common risks and how to deal with them.<br /><br />Don't expect qualitative or quantitative risk assessment methods, or even a risk management process that is almost an obligatory part of most project management books. Do expect the collective wisdom of real people who were interviewed, and their recommendations for dealing with the 'real risks'.<br /><br />These risks range from misaligned or unwarranted expectations to slippery requirements. If you've managed an IT project many of the risks will be familiar. How the PMs who were interviewed handled them will be illuminating.<br /><br />Aside from the fact that this is a highly readable book that is packed with wisdom and advice, the appendices also add a considerable value. Appendix 1 cross references the risks (constructs) by theme making it easy to quickly find the solution to a particular issue. Appendix 2 gives 5 hypothetical project profiles that reinforce the information in the body of the book, and Appendix 3 is a collection of strategies from the body of the book.<br /><br />Regardless of whether you are preparing to manage your first project or are seasoned and battle-scared, this book provides knowledge and advice that you can use.	2002-05-28
1529467:US	53037408	R2JK8D1128DEYX	0971610363	982729999	Merrill Lynch: The Cost Could Be Fatal: My War Against Wall Street's Giant	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Modern lessons in integrity and ethics	This book has four levels:<br />(1) A personal account of an individual of high moral integrity who took a stand against a large, powerful corporation and lost.  At this level the book is a moral compass for each of us because as the story unfolds there are indications of compromises that could have been made on both sides that would have possibly influenced the end result.<br />(2) Valuable lessons for both whistle blowers who feel an obligation to do the right thing, as well as corporate management for containing and controlling unwanted bad publicity.  I do not think the author intended the latter, but it's there.<br />(3) A tale of raw corporate power and an ineffectual regulatory oversight by the government.<br />(4) An eye-opening lesson on the differences between arbitration and jury trials and an examination of critical clauses in employment agreements.<br />A synopsis is that the author worked at Merrill Lynch, and shortly after joining discovered that the reputation for integrity and ethics upon which the company grew into a powerhouse corporation was flawed when viewed from the inside.  He naively attempted to bring it to management's attention, and eventually brought it to the attention of the board of directors.  His actions triggered a response that attempted to contain the situation, but escalated when internal investigators and the author were unable to agree on a resolution that was satisfactory to all parties.  This escalated into termination, an attempt at resolution in a jury trial and the discovery that he was obligated to submit to arbitration, which he lost.<br />The story is illuminating, but the heart of this book is the issues of ethics, integrity and where does one draw the line.  Reading the book I spotted a number of occasions where this episode could have had a happy ending if the author would have yielded to a degree. However, this is the crux of the matter - where is the line between true integrity and selling out?  To me that was the real question and one for which I still don't have a definitive answer.  I like the way the author fairly and objectively treated all of the players, which speaks highly of his personal integrity.  However, I was also able to see the efforts that Merrill Lynch were making to reach a compromise.  On one side is the author's unbending integrity, and on the other a group trying to protect shareholder value and the company's reputation in a large organization that, by its nature could not be immediately changed.<br />Most readers who work for large corporations will relate to the disparity of their company image as projected to the public versus the reality of what goes on inside.  Some will even relate to the moral and ethical dilemmas the author faced, and this book will perhaps inspire some to go with their conscience and others to take the easier path.  Regardless of the path chosen, the story is a real life examination of integrity and ethics and how they relate to contemporary business values.  It would make an excellent case study in a course on business ethics.  It's also a book that should be read by anyone whose profession has a code of professional ethics.e real question and one for which I still don't have a definitive answer.  I like the way the author fairly and objectively treated all of the players, which speaks highly of his personal integrity.  However, I was also able to see the efforts that Merrill Lynch were making to reach a compromise.  On one side is the author's unbending integrity, and on the other a group trying to protect shareholder value and the company's reputation in a large organization that, by its nature could not be immediately changed.  <br />Most readers who work for large corporations will relate to the disparity of their company image as projected to the public versus the reality of what goes on inside.  Some will even relate to the moral and ethical dilemmas the author faced, and this book will perhaps inspire some to go with their conscience and others to take the easier path.  Regardless of the path chosen, the story is a real life examination of integrity and ethics and how they relate to contemporary business values.  It would make an excellent case study in a course on business ethics.  It's also a book that should be read by anyone whose profession has a code of professional ethics.	2002-05-28
1534649:US	53037408	RP33S6Z4PNAXD	0201788985	165252895	Mobile Business Strategies: Understanding the Technologies and Opportunities	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Solid introduction to the technology and how to employ it	This book is not overly technical.  It's written to provide a basic, but complete, introduction to mobile commerce from a business strategy point of view.  It helps you answer some fundamental questions, such as:<br />Does mobile commerce make sense as a part of our business strategy?<br />What does it take to implement it?<br />What have other done to be successful?<br />From the above the most suitable audience consists of upper management on the business side, marketing and IT/IS management.  Upper levels of business management who are exploring how to integrate mobile commerce into the value chain, or develop a strategy for competitive advantage that taps into the proliferation of mobile devices (cell phones and PDAs) are going to benefit most from the following chapters: (2) Partnerships-the way to Success in the Mobile Era and (4) Corporate Applications: Aligning Mobile Commerce with your Business Goals.<br />Marketing will get the most from chapters (3) Consumer Mobile Commerce-Mass Market Solutions with Segmentation and (6) Portals-A Single Plate for Various Dishes. Another book that will serve marketing well is &quot;The Mobile Internet: How Japan Dialled up and the West Disconnected&quot; by Jeffrey Lee Funk because it provides deep insights into marketing issues, as well as how Japan's NTT DoCoMo became an international success story.<br />Both business managers and marketing will also gain keen insights from the case studies and scenarios that are used throughout the book to illustrate key points and show how others have successfully employed m-commerce solutions for strategic advantage or as service offerings.<br />IT/IS management will get a high level overview of the technical underpinnings, issues and factors associated with developing, deploying and maintaining m-commerce systems. The technical details are not deep, but are sufficient to gain a rough understanding of the scope and complexity of implementing and supporting m-commerce enabled systems.<br />If you are seeking in-depth technical details you will be disappointed.  However, if you are among the target audience or have the goals I cited above you'll find this book to be one of the best in its genre for introducing the business and strategic issues surrounding mobile commerce.<br />If you are seeking in-depth technical details you will be disappointed.  However, if you are among the target audience or have the goals I cited above you'll find this book to be one of the best in its genre for introducing the business and strategic issues surrounding mobile commerce.	2002-05-22
1535663:US	53037408	R2B8UJBI33FN18	0130609285	330957169	Object-Oriented Defect Management of Software	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wealth of information on an important topic	This is a niche book that has a narrow, but important, focus.  The approach the author takes is to apply mature defect management techniques that were proven in procedural development environments to object-oriented development.<br />The context of defect management in this book is defect density (defining the development life cycle phase in which the defect was injected) and inspection techniques to promote early discovery.  Neither of these are new, but are difficult to employ in OO development.  That is where this book becomes valuable, because it recognizes that systems developed using OO techniques are viewed and modeled differently.  Instead of the relatively flat dimensions of entity-relationship and data flow, OO uses encapsulation, and  structural, transformational, and causal-sequential. The changes in modeling and views require changes in process and attitude.  The techniques that are given reflect the necessary changes in defect density management and inspection techniques that are required.<br />Aside from the unique subject matter (there are few books devoted to defect management in any development environment), this book is invaluable to developers, requirements analysts, SQA and test professionals because it covers each of these domains in great detail.  Chapters 3 and 4 are focused on requirements defects and contain excellent advice for both preventing defects at this critical phase, as well as how to detect and manage ones that are introduced.  Chapters 5 and 6 address the same issues in the design phase, and 7 covers the build phase. The chapters that cover the test phase are particularly good because they provide techniques that are specific to OO testing.  Many books attempt to force-fit traditional testing techniques into OO environments and it plain doesn't work. The author did an excellent job of describing the approaches and knowledge needed to be an effective tester in OO development projects.<br />Appendix C is also valuable because it provides 17 scripts for inspections and walkthroughs.<br />This book fully supports the Rational Unified Process, as well as OPEN and other OO development approaches. At a higher level, this book is also applicable to procedural development from a defect management point of view because much of the general material, especially the parts related to software quality attributes and defect density, applies to any development environment.provides 17 scripts for inspections and walkthroughs.<br />This book fully supports the Rational Unified Process, as well as OPEN and other OO development approaches. At a higher level, this book is also applicable to procedural development from a defect management point of view because much of the general material, especially the parts related to software quality attributes and defect density, applies to any development environment.	2002-05-22
1535832:US	53037408	RK243EHQUN22H	1580535089	19139792	Systematic Software Testing (Artech House Computer Library)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Complete, practical and proven approach to testing	This book provides a detailed roadmap for establishing and managing a comprehensive test process that is closely aligned to the IEEE standards for software testing. The process, called Systematic Test and Evaluation Process (STEP) is designed to improve quality by early involvement in the development life cycle instead of having testing as an activity on the critical path at the end of the build phase.  This approach ensures early detection of defects, including those introduced in the requirements, specifications and design milestones.  Clearly, the STEP approach supports testing and SQA (where SQA is an oversight function outside of the testing domain).<br />The STEP process has three main steps:<br /> 1. Plan the test strategy (develop a master test plan and associated detailed test plans).<br /> 2. Acquire testware (define test objectives, design and create test plans).<br /> 3. Measure (execute the tests, ensure that tests are adequate and monitor the process itself).<br />This framework is supported in Chapters 2-8, each of which addresses supporting activities and artifacts in detail.  Chapter 2 covers risk analysis since testing is by its nature done to reduce the risk of defects escaping into production systems.  I like the way the authors separate technical and schedule risks in this chapter because each are integral to the realities of testing.<br />Chapters 3 and 4 show how to perform master and detailed test planning, and provide example plan templates and how to develop them, and requirements and factors for each test phase for the detailed planning (unit, integration, system and acceptance testing).<br />The analysis and design activities covered in chapter 5 are focused on test design. The systematic and structured way the authors approach these activities walks you through developing test cases. You're shown how to ensure that they account for requirements and features, and are given high level advice about how to types of tests to employ.  Test implementation covered in Chapter 6 introduces organization and process issues from a team perspective.  One of the strongest chapters, 7, does deeply into the issues and factors surrounding test execution, and gives metrics to consider and internal processes for managing defects. I felt that this chapter should have paid more attention to issue and defect management from an enterprise problem management perspective, but despite this the information is solid.<br />The chapters that will most benefit test managers, especially new ones, are 8 through 10 that address the test organization, people and management issues.  These sections would warm the heart of HR professionals and is unique in that leadership is given the same weight as management techniques. The detailed comparison of certifications from ASQ (CSQE), IEEE (CSDP), QAI (CSTE) and IIST (CSTP) includes everything you need to know to select the best certification to pursue, including salary increase data for each of these certifications. I also liked the chapter on improving the test process and thought the discussions of the CMM and the TPI model that is the subject of Test Process Improvement: A Practical Step-by-Step Guide to Structured Testing discussed.  The appendices are also valuable in that they provide a glossary and templates that are consistent with IEEE specifications for software testing, and other valuable aids, such as checklists, an example master test plan and process diagrams.<br />Overall, the 15 years of field experience in teaching testing that is embodied in this book shows.  It's practical, captures best practices and provides a solid model for a process-oriented test organization that employs preventive techniques.ion covered in Chapter 6 introduces organization and process issues from a team perspective.  One of the strongest chapters, 7, does deeply into the issues and factors surrounding test execution, and gives metrics to consider and internal processes for managing defects. I felt that this chapter should have paid more attention to issue and defect management from an enterprise problem management perspective, but despite this the information is solid.<br />The chapters that will most benefit test managers, especially new ones, are 8 through 10 that address the test organization, people and management issues.  These sections would warm the heart of HR professionals and is unique in that leadership is given the same weight as management techniques. The detailed comparison of certifications from ASQ (CSQE), IEEE (CSDP), QAI (CSTE) and IIST (CSTP) includes everything you need to know to select the best certification to pursue, including salary increase data for each of these certifications. I also liked the chapter on improving the test process and thought the discussions of the CMM and the TPI model that is the subject of Test Process Improvement: A Practical Step-by-Step Guide to Structured Testing discussed.  The appendices are also valuable in that they provide a glossary and templates that are consistent with IEEE specifications for software testing, and other valuable aids, such as checklists, an example master test plan and process diagrams.<br />Overall, the 15 years of field experience in teaching testing that is embodied in this book shows.  It's practical, captures best practices and provides a solid model for a process-oriented test organization that employs preventive techniques.	2002-05-22
1537294:US	53037408	R3DBTF26M6GE0I	0873893379	721601422	The Sales Quality Audit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A gem with a high ROI	In just 94 information-packed pages this book manages to not only cover the key points of auditing the sales process, but also gives excellent advice on the act of selling itself.<br />As a consultant whose role supports sales professionals, I had come to believe that sales was an art and the best sales professionals were born into it.  That may have some truth, but an across-the-board improvement in the sales process can be achieved if this book is followed.The approach itself is straightforward:<br /> * Perform an &quot;As-Is&quot; analysis.<br /> * Develop performance standards.<br /> * Conduct a quality audit.<br /> * Use audit results to refine and improve.<br />The book gives critical success factors for sales quality assurance and also provides sales quality guidelines.  It's a quick read, which should appeal to busy sales managers and especially the sales staff who probably spend much of their spare reading time trying to keep up with product specifications and industry directions (among other things).<br />However, this book is equally valuable to the IT professional who is involved with defining or implementing a sales force automation (SFA) system.  The clear description of the sales cycle and critical success factors (audit points) are a good baseline for SFA requirements and workflow design. More important, the general sales information in this book will give the IT analyst keen insights into the sales business process area.<br />Follow the step-by-step procedures in this book and the entire sales organization will benefit - the naturals will not have their creativity or talents stifled, and the average performers will have valid performance standards and a well designed process to aid them in achieving higher sales. A key benefit from the approach is consistent customer satisfaction and ability to deliver as promised. This book may turn out to be the best investment you have ever made if you're a sales professional or manager.	2002-05-20
1537356:US	53037408	R2CCSC5XM5BFXQ	0201796198	210334856	How to Break Software: A Practical Guide to Testing W/CD	Books	5	62	66	N	N	More serious than the title implies - excellent book	Don't let the title or description fool you into thinking this is a book about ad hoc playing with applications with a goal to break them.  In reality the book gives a structured approach to finding vulnerabilities in software.  These vulnerabilities are weak points commonly found in software, and should be included in any test suite.<br />The vulnerabilities are classified by a fault model, then the book systematically walks you through the procedures used to attack and break the software.  Each vulnerability type is addressed:<br />User Interface<br />- inputs and outputs, with 6 attacks for breaking common input flaws and 4 for output flaws.<br />- data and computation, with 3 attacks against stored data and 3 against computation and feature interaction.<br />System Interface<br />- 3 media-based and 3 file-based attacks against the file system.<br />- how to test the application/operating system interface.<br />The book also comes with a Windows application that helps you to create the hostile environment with which to 'attack' the software being tested.  Therein lies the sophistication of the book, which employs fault injection as a technique. This technique is not commonly used in any but the most advanced testing environments, which raises this book's credibility from ad hoc to a serious approach to software engineering.  More importantly, it provides test professionals, especially those who are testing Windows applications, a catalog of common vulnerabilities to address.  More importantly, it teaches test professionals to approach parts of the testing process from an exploitation point of view - after all, their job is to break the software.<br />My initial misgivings about this book vanished as soon as I started reading it, and were replaced by enthusiasm by the time I was finished.  This book addresses a niche topic, but deserves a place in every software testing library.	2002-05-20
1538209:US	53037408	R19WCTU9SEXOOP	0070331391	995484865	Integrated Logistics Support Handbook, Special Reprint Edition	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent ILS reference, with potential commercial uses	My motivation for buying this book came from my extensive experience with material maintenance management during my 22 year career in the navy, and subsequent experience with integrated logistics in Department of Defense contracting. I used the first edition of this book as a reference when I was on a proposal team for a DoD contract, and found it to be one of the best references available because it distilled tens of thousands of pages of directives, instructions and related material into less than 500 pages. It covered the topic in sufficient detail as to serve as an authoritative reference as well as to get other members of the team up-to-speed in ILS.<br />During subsequent consulting engagements for commercial clients I used many of the concepts and methods detailed in this book to outline requirements for automated materials and maintenance management systems.  In particular, any commercial business domain, such as refinery maintenance or maintenance data collection and analysis are candidates for applying parts of ILS to commercial uses.  This book then becomes more valuable to a wider audience than DoD contractors.<br />A second use for the concepts is the structured and proven approach to an encompassing systems maintenance management initiative within IT.  For example, the use of logistics support analysis is a sound approach to planning enterprise-wide maintenance from a cost management perspective.  Moreover, using a modified (and shortened) form of logistics support analysis records is a good foundation for enterprise asset management, as well as developing a reliability baseline.<br />While this book has obvious value to readers from the DoD contracting community, it also contains information that can be tailored to commercial uses.	2002-05-20
1539403:US	53037408	R1LTY0DFOMJISV	0137203845	294577360	Practical Software Metrics for Project Management and Process Improvement	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Seamless integration of development and project activities	This is Grady's first book and it sets the tone for his later two books, Successful Software Process Improvement and Software Metrics: Establishing a Company-wide Program.  What makes this book so important is that it is one of the first to integrate software metrics with project management metrics.<br />What I particularly like about this book includes:<br />(1) Complete view of metrics that matter, and the chronicle of how these metrics evolved in a large company (Hewlett-Packard).<br />(2) Recognition that any software metrics initiative extends beyond the project that delivers the software - Grady examines post-production metrics and ties them back to not only the development life cycle, but the product life cycle as well. Ten years after this book was published there are still large organizations that are struggling with doing this, yet Grady's book provides a clear roadmap to achieving this elusive goal.<br />(3) Continuous improvement is the central theme in this book.  Grady does not stop with collecting and analyzing metrics, but how to effectively employ them to spot improvement opportunities and develop a strategy to effect those improvements.<br />The book is written as both a story of how a successful metrics program evolved, complete with anecdotes that will prove helpful, and as a collection of data that illustrates what is and is not important to a comprehensive metrics program.<br />Among all of Grady's books I like this one the best; however, I recommend that his other two also be carefully read if software process improvement is your goal.  He has much to say and backs it up with data and a chronicle of his experiences from real projects.	2002-05-18
1539653:US	53037408	R2EJRR6ZSY1KMJ	0201745712	937787272	Software Testing: A guide to the TMap Approach	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Finally in English!	My first introduction to TMAP was in &quot;Test Process Improvement: A Practical Step-by-Step Guide to Structured Testing&quot; which the author co-authored.  It piqued my interest, but unfortunately all of the literature on TMAP was written in Dutch.  This book makes this powerful test management approach available to English speaking readers, making it invaluable.<br />First, a little about TMAP to explain why I think the approach is important and useful: It views testing as a process instead of a collection of procedures. The advantage is that once a process is in place it can be stabilized and improved upon. The key to testing is repeatability, and without a process there can be no repeatability. TMAP consists of four elements that combine to form a cohesive test management model:<br />(1) Testing life cycle that is aligned to the development life cycle.  This life cycle is encapsulated within a planning and control framework that easily fits into the project management activities of the development life cycle.<br />(2) Testing techniques - not the techniques used in the execution of test cases, but the techniques employed for defining a test strategy, developing test specifications, and the associated artifacts.  This book does cover some basic test execution techniques, but they are not the focus of the book and are not covered in great detail.<br />(3) Infrastructure and tools - addresses what are the minimums for an effective test process in the form of environments and tools. If you're establishing a test organization this aspect will be invaluable.<br />(4) Organization - how the test organization is structured and how it relates to external functions, such as development, configuration and release management, project management and other major stakeholders.<br />Each of the above elements and their parts are covered in great detail, resulting in a sound framework for test management.  That alone makes this book invaluable, but there are some additional gems that I especially liked:<br />- Test point analysis and estimation, which is an estimating method for test effort that is based on function point analysis.  This is incredibly valuable because accurate estimation is one of the shortfalls in testing. This alone is reason to buy the book.<br />- The wealth of checklists - I especially liked the comprehensive list of quality characteristics.<br />- Testing in maintenance situations - probably the most common situation for software testing and this book covers it well.<br />This book and the related one titled &quot;Test Process Improvement: A Practical Step-by-Step Guide to Structured Testing&quot; combine to give a complete picture of test management and test process improvement.  I recommend both, as well as &quot;Systematic Software Testing&quot; by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel which lays the foundation for, and is consistent with, both TPI and TMAP.I especially liked:<BR>- Test point analysis and estimation, which is an estimating method for test effort that is based on function point analysis.  This is incredibly valuable because accurate estimation is one of the shortfalls in testing. This alone is reason to buy the book.<BR>- The wealth of checklists - I especially liked the comprehensive list of quality characteristics.<BR>- Testing in maintenance situations - probably the most common situation for software testing and this book covers it well.<br />This book and the related one titled &quot;Test Process Improvement: A Practical Step-by-Step Guide to Structured Testing&quot; combine to give a complete picture of test management and test process improvement.  I recommend both, as well as &quot;Systematic Software Testing&quot; by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel which lays the foundation for, and is consistent with, both TPI and TMAP.	2002-05-18
1539703:US	53037408	R2EBFE8HK6NFGV	0201596245	858275033	Test Process Improvement: A step-by-step guide to structured testing	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	For mature, stable test organizations	This book provides a coherent process improvement approach for software testing.  It provides a model that supports the assessment of strengths and weaknesses of an existing software testing process and an approach for developing and implementing remedial action to rectify the weaknesses.  As such this book is not useful to organizations that have not achieved a mature and stable testing process because the model will not apply.  If you are seeking a book that will get your processes stable you will find &quot;Systematic Software Testing&quot; by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel a better place to start.<br />However, if your processes are stable this book is among the best because it stays focused on improving the testing process and does so in the same manner that SEI's CMM does for software development.  In fact, the TPI approach in this book is cross-referenced to the CMM, which gives you an approach that can be viewed as a testing maturity model that aligns nicely with the CMM (including the newer CMMI).  This is one of the strong points of the book and TPI.<br />Another thing to know about this book is that it's written more like a specification than a narrative. Some readers may find this difficult, but if you are involved in mapping the TPI key process areas to the CMM (or SPICE,  Bootstrap or PSM), you'll appreciate the format. Also, the book views TPI as a subset of software process improvement, and software process improvement as a subset of TQM.  While the authors focus on the software testing process, they do not isolate it from the bigger picture.  This allows you to view then entire quality process as a coherent whole when you're assessing the software testing process and developing improvement strategies.<br />I personally think this book adds considerably to the software testing body of knowledge, and that the approach the authors give is both practical and sensible. If you work in an organization that has a stable testing process or is at CMM level 2 or above this book is essential reading.vel 2 or above this book is essential reading.	2002-05-18
1540157:US	53037408	R5YNG3UQCDGTR	0136266231	445322987	Successful Software Process Improvement	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Remains one of the best	Five years after he wrote &quot;Practical Software Metrics for Project Management and Process Improvement&quot; Grady followed-up on the foundation he laid by showing how his metrics-based approach can be leveraged into a viable process improvement program.  This book uses the TQM Plan-Do-Check-Act framework as the basis for process improvement. However, he goes deep into the issues and factors to give a complete approach to developing and managing a continuous improvement posture.<br />Highlights of this book include:<br />(1) The same story telling approach he successfully used in his first book.  The conversational writing style and the logical sequence of the book makes it easy to read. Moreover, the real life examples add credibility and make the content practical instead of merely blue sky theory.<br />(2) A complete survey of assessment methods, such as the CMM, Software Productivity Research's Software Quality and Productivity Assessment, and Hewlett-Packard's internal QUality Maturity System.  The latter two are especially interesting because they are, in essence, balanced scorecards.<br />(3) Business-oriented - the approach taken never strays from cost/benefit and ROI.<br />The parts I especially liked included the chapter on software failure analysis (a personal interest), key lessons from adopting best practices, and moving past reasons not to succeed.  In fact, if you get nothing else from this book the last part will make this book a worthwhile investment because he shows how to deal with the six most common excuses for not pursuing process improvement (or any other initiative for that matter).<br />As in Grady's other books there is a wealth of metrics, data and examples. While this book is longer than his other books, it's still a manageable 314 pages and is highly readable.  If you are involved with software process improvement initiatives this book should be on your short list.	2002-05-18
1540600:US	53037408	R23U4UT64FQYEZ	0201719746	647789123	Introducing Software Testing (ACM Press)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Raises the bar for SW testing books	Teaches good habits to new testers, and offers much to experienced test professionals. I cannot imagine a better introductory book for software testers because this much needed text bypasses the theory that similar books inundate you with and goes straight to the essence of what testers spend most of their time doing: writing test plans and developing test cases.  In fact, the first chapter (Tackling the Testing Maze) is the roadmap for the rest of the book, as well as the test process itself.  The approach is modern in that it's aligned to iterative development life cycles, which is based on eight stages:<br /> 1. Exploration<br /> 2. Baseline test<br /> 3. Trend analysis<br /> 4. Inventory<br /> 5. Inventory combinations<br /> 6. Boundaries<br /> 7. Data<br /> 8. Stress the environment<br />What I like about this book is the no-nonsense approach to developing a test outline from which the test plan(s) and test cases will be derived, and the way that this documentation is aligned to the real world.  For example, due diligence in the form of meticulous attention to sign-offs and authorities to proceed is emphasized.  This alone is a common failure point in many test organizations. I also like the way that the realities of the project are highlighted, especially the interactions with the development team and the integration of project considerations into the process - in particular, the schedule constraints that all testers must juggle while meeting quality goals.<br />Other areas that make this a realistic look at testing include the chapters on object-oriented and web testing, and the inclusion of security testing - especially the latter which has been neglected in many advanced books and is an important, but overlooked, aspect of the full test suite.<br />Because this is an introductory text the author uses case studies and copious examples to illustrate and reinforce concepts and activities.  But most important, the focus is on activities that reflect what testers do and theory only when required.  This makes the book interesting and will give to anyone who follows the approach solid skills that will increase their worth to their team as well as dramatically increase their professional knowledge and skills.<br />For new testers this is probably the most important book you can buy. If you're a test manager you'll find this book to be an ideal training tool, and if combined with Systematic Software Testing by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel will give you a complete reference library.  The approach in the Craig and Jaskiel book is completely consistent with the approach in this one, making both books all the more valuable.ly when required.  This makes the book interesting and will give to anyone who follows the approach solid skills that will increase their worth to their team as well as dramatically increase their professional knowledge and skills.<br />For new testers this is probably the most important book you can buy. If you're a test manager you'll find this book to be an ideal training tool, and if combined with Systematic Software Testing by Rick D. Craig and Stefan P. Jaskiel will give you a complete reference library.  The approach in the Craig and Jaskiel book is completely consistent with the approach in this one, making both books all the more valuable.	2002-05-17
1545969:US	53037408	R1I24YUMUKC7E7	0970601905	816115951	Turning Numbers into Knowledge: Mastering the Art of Problem Solving	Books	5	126	131	N	N	Among the most influential books I've read	I was expecting a book about quantitative methods and advanced problem solving techniques.  What I got, instead, was a book that didn't even discuss numbers until page 111 of a 221 page book, and it was lite on problem solving techniques. Although it was not what I expected it turned out to be one of those rare books that deeply influences and provides fresh perspectives.  The book led me on a journey that broke the process of critical thinking into manageable steps.  Among the things I learned were:<br />* Examine key factors, such as information, attention and action within the context of a cycle of actions that begins with goals, and moves through execution, how events in the external world influence the meeting of those goals, an evaluation and refinement of goals.  Then the process starts anew.<br />* Structured methods for getting organized.  The techniques given are simple, yet powerful.How to collect and critically analyze data and information, common fallacies and how to spot them.  Two of my favorite parts that reinforce these are then single-page chart titled &quot;What Scientists Say, and What They Mean&quot;, and Chapter 20 (Uncertainty Principle and the Mass Media).<br />* The straightforward process of numerical analysis, using relatively simple math techniques to make sense of numbers and turn them into knowledge, is priceless. What makes this part of the book valuable is that the author integrates the preceding chapters that lead you to a critical thinking mindset with common sense and techniques that are within the grasp of high school students.  It looks easy, but is testimony to the author's exceptional ability to communicate and inspire.<br />Overall this book is one of my personal favorites and one that I recommend to colleagues. Another book that complements this one nicely is Systems Thinking: Managing Chaos and Complexity by Jamshid Gharajedaghi.	2002-05-13
1546311:US	53037408	RMLOS2SYETC0R	0750674490	823975678	The Project Management Scorecard (Improving Human Performance)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Essential for PMOs and mature project organizations	This book is ROI-focused and integrates the people and process elements of project management with a balanced scorecard approach.  One of the authors, Jack J. Phillips, has extensive experience and a large published body of knowledge in the domains of HR, ROI and scorecard development.  This book has his touch, and covers the essentials of a mature project organization, what to measure and how to measure it.<br />The approach is as follows:<br />1. Measure:<br />  * reaction and satisfaction<br />  * skill and knowledge churn during the project<br />  * implementation and progress metrics throughout the project<br />2. From the metrics capture:<br />  * business impact data<br />  * ROI<br />3. Identify both tangible and intangible benefits and apply them to an aggregate 'true cost'.<br />The book also shows how to translate business metrics to dollar values, build a business case, and communicate status, based on the scorecard, to clients and stakeholders. This is essential for anyone who is setting up or managing a program management office or who wants to improve internal project managment processes.  It also provides one of the best methods for communicating status to clients and upper management.	2002-05-12
1546357:US	53037408	R2AI7TRFWA6ENE	0873376455	632164275	Web and Software Development: A Legal Guide (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Invaluable and essential for developers and buyers	This book/CD ROM combination covers intellectual property from a developer's (and buyer's) perspective.  It is both a tutorial in the basics and is filled with useful advice about all relevent issues, including employee and contractor agreements, trade secret protection, copyright rights (assignment, ownership and related issues), and how to protect all parties in a fair and equitable manner.It covers contemporary issues such as domain names, web content and multimedia, making it especially useful to technical and non-technical readers.<br />In addition to clear explanations of complex topics and sound advice, this book comes with a CD ROM with a wealth of forms in RTF format (which can be edited in Microsoft Word and most other word processing programs). These 30 forms cover employee and contractor agreements, software and web development agreements, nondisclosure agreements, copyright assignments and license agreements and how to handle publicity releases and promotional materials in multimedia format.  The latter is particularly challenging because not only are names involved, but photos and often voice and video files for which you need permission to use if you don't own it or it becomes a privacy issue.  If you perform or contract for web or software development, including content, then you need this book.	2002-05-12
1546541:US	53037408	R23QT754ZBNZZ5	0873376463	346362175	Nondisclosure Agreements: Protect Your Trade Secrets and More: The plain-English legal information & forms you need to safeguard your business interests	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Applies to all businesses, but especially consultants	This book is applicable to all businesses and industries, but my review is from the perspective of an IT consultant.  In my profession we've all signed a nondosclosure agreement at one time or another, and we frequently make presentations or provide information that discloses trade secrets, or business-sensitive information to clients and potential clients.<br />This book contains a clear explanation about what you should be protecting with a nondisclosure agreement and does so in detail.  The author clearly explains how to protect youself from both employees and competitors, as well as from potential business alliances (contractor/subcontractor, suitors in a merger or acquisition to whom you expose sensitive information, and clients to whom you make presentations and reveal processes and other sensitive information).<br />Key topics of importance that this book covers include:<br />* How much protection an NDA affords you.<br />* Remedies available to you in the NDA is violated.<br />* Alternatives to NDAs.<br />It also covers non-compete agreements and their limitations, especially in certain states, and gives example NDAs for specific situations such as beta testing, customer data, etc.  The accompanying CD ROM provides fifteen sample forms that can be used with little or no modification (although I recommend that all be checked by an attorney who specializes in intellectual property law and is familiar with nuances of the law in your state).	2002-05-12
1546718:US	53037408	R314UCJN10IMT	087337536X	946309806	Getting Permission: How to License and Clear Copyrighted Materials Online and Off	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Important if you publish on paper or run a web site	Regardless of whether you use the Internet or do traditional publishing work, you need to know how to get permission to use the work of others.  On the Internet this increasingly important in view of the issues surrounding deep linking and related challenges in a world where a simple HTML tag to someone else's work can bring legal problems. This book provides expert guidance that covers how to obtain permission, copyright research, what constitutes fair use, and how to legally use trademarks.<br />The book also clarifies the definition of \\"public domain\\" and what needs to be in a license agreement.<br />What makes this book especially valuable is that it comes with 32 forms that range from standard photo use and test use permission to linking agreements, interview releases, art for hire and more.	2002-05-12
1546765:US	53037408	R2MGQKH0ZGWVLU	0471328596	772598431	Total Project Control: A Manager's Guide to Integrated Project Planning, Measuring, and Tracking	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Unique, practical and excellent for PMOs	This book extends beyond control to encompass three important areas that begins with project selection, and adds to how projects are planned and scheduled.  These areas are:<br />1. Set of tools and approach for governance and program management.<br />2. Adds profitability as a dimension to project management.<br />3. Proves that critical path method (CPM) is not an anachronistic technique - merely one that's misunderstood.<br />Governance and program management tools that the author introduces are powerful and ensure that project selection is based on profitability and business goals.  While there is an entire body of knowledge on project selection techniques, what sets Mr. Devaux's approach apart is his tools are incorporated into the project management process as opposed to merely initiating it.  The tools are:<br />* [Devaux's] Index of Project Performance (DIPP), which is one of the most powerful project selection and prioritization techniques I've encountered.  DIPP is especially applicable to product-based projects because it computes the cost of lost opportunity and the impact of being late to market. For internal projects it provides a clear link to business imperatives, which can bridge the gap between IT and the business.<br />* [Devaux's] Removed Activity Gage (DRAG).  Overlook the fact that the author loves to name techniques after himself because this is an advanced technique that accurately computes the amount of time an activity adds to a project (or can save if the activity is removed).  This technique is a powerful addition to the project manager's array of tools for schedule compression and resource management.<br />* Doubled Resource Estimated Duration (DRED) is a measure of resource elasticity; in other words, some activity cannot be shortened by adding resources and others can. DRED allows you to determine the best use of your resources.<br />* Cost of Leveling with Unresolved Bottlenecks (CLUB), which is another advanced technique for schedule management, and, used in conjunction with Resource Availability Drag (RAD) and DRAG, give credence to Devaux's argument that the critical path method is a powerful element of project management.<br />This book also has much to offer to anyone who  has just been placed in charge of a program management office (PMO).  One note: Devaux is given to hyperbole at times.  He makes claims that traditional project management techniques, such as earned value project management are flawed, yet he bases his approach on them.  Look beyond this because his approach is powerful and works in practice.ent, and, used in conjunction with Resource Availability Drag (RAD) and DRAG, give credence to Devaux's argument that the critical path method is a powerful element of project management.<br />This book also has much to offer to anyone who  has just been placed in charge of a program management office (PMO).  One note: Devaux is given to hyperbole at times.  He makes claims that traditional project management techniques, such as earned value project management are flawed, yet he bases his approach on them.  Look beyond this because his approach is powerful and works in practice.	2002-05-12
1546822:US	53037408	R2UPSV3ZNHSMBT	0201309580	155943631	Software Project Management: A Unified Framework	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Outstanding collection of advanced technqiues	If you aren't versed in advanced project management techniques this book will be overwhelming.  More important you may pick up misleading information.  However, if you are a battle-scared veteran of software development projects and have a full understanding of earned value project management, estimating techniques and development life cycles you'll learn much from this book.<br />The highlights are:<br />* A project life cycle and process framework that is [obviously] closely aligned to the Rational Unified Process (RUP), and can be fitted to any rapid development or iterative approach.<br />* An excellent tutorial on effective project controls, with an emphasis on earned value project management.<br />* In-depth coverage of estimating techniques, with a lot of material on the constructive cost model (CoCoMo), and current gaps in estimating techniques and to where the craft and science of estimating and software economics needs to evolve in the discussion of next-generation cost models.  I especially like his distinction between the use of source lines of code metrics for size and function points for scale.  There is middle ground.The treasure trove of metrics, including core project metrics, and the change metrics that are given in Appendix C.<br />There is one glaring flaw in this book and an experienced project manager will quickly spot it:  the proposed approach to basing work breakdown structures on project phases instead of the decomposition of the system to be delivered will not work.  Using Royce's approach there is no clear way of integrating the work breakdown structure with the organizational breakdown structure.  Using earned value techniques (which is well covered elsewhere in the book) Royce's approach will not align control accounts (sometimes called cost accounts), making his recommendations contrived and unworkable.<br />This book is better suited for an architecture-centric approach to project management, which means that it's more applicable to product development instead of internal IT projects. However, all seasoned PMs will learn much from it.ct development instead of internal IT projects. However, all seasoned PMs will learn much from it.	2002-05-12
1546848:US	53037408	R17CT7B0GEDBKU	0873377192	680299509	Copyright Your Software	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First step in due diligence and protecting your work	This book focuses solely on what you need to know about software copyrights and how to go about obtaining one. In addition to covering the basics of copyrights, you're shown how to sell copyrights, what to do in the event of infringement, and the limits of protection that a copyright affords you.  Note that patents offer much stronger protection. It comes with the following forms:<br />* Copyright Application for Software (Forms PA, VA and CA, Request for Special Handling, continuation forms, search request forms and cover sheets that are explained in the book and are required to file for a copyright.<br />* Eight sample forms in electronic format that are covered in the book.<br />The book is up-to-date (published in late 2001), easy to read, especially considering the thorny legal issues involved, and is complete enough to assure some degree of due diligence when researching copyright issues and making business decisions based on that research.	2002-05-12
1547047:US	53037408	R22UY8VE4IKARH	1893115720	632945626	Developing Trust: Online Privacy and Security	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Definitive work	This book examines the social, legal and technical issues surrounding online privacy.  Not only is the consumer side of privacy examined, but the business side from a marketing point of view is also discussed to present a balanced view of the key issues from both sides of the equation.<br />Mr. Curtin is an expert in privacy and security issues, as well as cryptography and security technology.  The approach he takes in the book is to explain both the theory and concepts of privacy in social and legal contexts, and to examine the threats and exposures.<br />From there he leads you through the design of a solution that starts with principles, then a thorough examination of the underlying online technologies and how they work for and against you.  An obvious example of one technical element that works for and against is the 'cookie' which can provide a major convenience (it remembers you and your preferences) and an invasion of your privacy (it remembers you and your preferences - and can also 'stalk' you in a manner of speaking).  How to best balance the strengths and weaknesses of not only the technology, but the business imperatives driving commercial uses of the internet are addressed.<br />My personal vuiew is that this book blends the best of Bruce Schneier's Secrets and Lies and Richard Hunter's World Without Secrets.  Schneier's book covered the full range of security issues, social and technical.  Hunter's book is more focused on social aspects of privacy.  What sets this book apart from those two are the focus on privacy and the multiple contexts in which the book addresses it:  social, legal and technical.  If the author keeps this book up to date it is destined to become a classic.  The challenge is to remain abrest of emerging legal issues and technical breakthroughs - both of which are inevitable.	2002-05-12
1547654:US	53037408	RVQ4DKD1MLVFA	0201727897	393957422	The Power of Events: An Introduction to Complex Event Processing in Distributed Enterprise Systems	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Formal approach to system and business event mgmt	This book applies structured engineering methods to systems and software engineering, making it a unique and much needed addition to the body of knowledge.  Prior to this book event processing was in the domain of embedded and realtime systems developers and hardware designers.  This book shows how to effectively use these techniques in IT.<br />The first two chapters give reasons why complex event processing (CEP)is essential to the distributed systems that characterize supply chain, e-commerce and internet-enabled applications. They also sort out the key issues and present a paradigm for a global event cloud that is decomposed in subsequent chapters.  Instead of providing an in-depth analysis of each chapter, which would make for a lengthly and boring review I'll give the highlights of what I liked:<br />- Architecture is an important theme throughout the book.  In particular the Rapide architecture description language adds formality and structure.  The key elements of Rapide are causal event modeling, event patterns/pattern matching and event pattern maps and constraints.<br />- Events, timing and causality, and their interrelationships, are thoroughly explained. These are the key to understanding the treatment of patterns, rules and constraints that follow, and for tackling the subsequent discussion of complex events and event hierarchies.  This is slow reading, but the essence of the book.<br />- Event processing networks, which are a practical use of the knowledge imparted by this book. Moreover, the two case studies showed real world application of the concepts instead of abstract theory.  They reinforced all of the key points made earlier in the book.<br />CEP is particularly applicable to enterprise application integration projects that depend on business events and network and systems management instrumentation (especially developers who write Tivoli software adapters, develop network monitoring solutions or similar endeavors).	2002-05-11
1555723:US	53037408	R1FOY090NO2S7H	0791341089	585247765	Handbook of E-Business (Electronic Commerce)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sound investment for the right audience	This is an expensive book that will be a sound investment for the right audience and a disappointment to others.  The right audience consists of high-level management in business process domains, IT executive management, marketing and strategic planners.<br />I'll start with what this book is not, which will help you determine if it's right for you.  It is NOT:<br />- a technical book, although technology is discussed, compared and contrasted within the context of e-commerce<br />- a methodology, however the information provided is a straightforward examination of business issues and how e-commerce processes and associated technology can be leveraged for competitive advantage<br />- highly detailed, although there is sufficient information with which to develop business strategies around e-commerce.<br />What this book does provide is a high-level, succinct discussion of the major issues and factors that will be of interest to its target audience as I've defined it above.  Although Jessica Keyes is credited as the author she is really the editor who has pulled together articles from experts and those in the trenches and one of then more frequent contributors.  Ms. Keye's selection of content and her skills as an editor are showcased in this book, which consists of 6 sections (A through F), that address specific aspects of e-business as follows:<br />Section A: Introduction.  Although one would think that all businesses have thought this through, most are still reacting to the phenomena of the web and its possibilities, with no realistic idea about the opportunities and pitfalls that are inherent.  Highlights that I like are: selling and value propositions from a business perspective, learning from mistakes, partnering and alliances, implementation strategies, personalization, and a strategic framework for e-commerce.<br />Section B: E-Commerce.  This section covers customer retention, e-commerce testing, driving revenue and customer satisfaction, e-merchandising, and strategic models.<br /><br />Section C: E-Business.  How to recast your thinking from bricks and mortar to e-business.  Highlights include: integrated B2B, selling hard goods and info to businesses (business models and product development life cycles), ASPs, transforming your business into e-business-best practices, budgeting & reporting.<br />Section D: Financials.  This is the most business-focused section, and one that is in line with Ms. Keye's extensive background in business and financial analysis.  It includes: valuing an internet business, financial model for CFOs, e-procurement, taxation, e-service, infrastructure investment decisions, finance dept role in e-biz development, developing e-business plan, raising money for internet venture, web revenue models, measures for e-business, outsourcing and initial costs to build e-business, procurement savings,<br />Section E: Social Aspects, including legal issues, advertising, trust management, and e-culture and change.<br />Section F: Technology.  This collection of articles is a high-level overview that is aimed at upper management and decision makers to reveal the technical issues. Included are: content as cornerstone, testing, underlying technology, security and the impact of e-business on IT organizations.<br />Each chapter is an easy read and is packed with only the essentials.  In fact, I marveled at the way the information is condensed and presented because most chapters were less than 10 pages, yet captured everything a decision maker needs to know.  In many respects this book is similar to a highly focused collection of Gartner or Meta Group reports, and therein lies the value - busy executives can quickly get the information they need to make strategic and tactical decisions without getting bogged down in unnecessary details.strategic models.<BR> <BR>Section C: E-Business.  How to recast your thinking from bricks and mortar to e-business.  Highlights include: integrated B2B, selling hard goods and info to businesses (business models and product development life cycles), ASPs, transforming your business into e-business-best practices, budgeting & reporting.<br />Section D: Financials.  This is the most business-focused section, and one that is in line with Ms. Keye's extensive background in business and financial analysis.  It includes: valuing an internet business, financial model for CFOs, e-procurement, taxation, e-service, infrastructure investment decisions, finance dept role in e-biz development, developing e-business plan, raising money for internet venture, web revenue models, measures for e-business, outsourcing and initial costs to build e-business, procurement savings, <br />Section E: Social Aspects, including legal issues, advertising, trust management, and e-culture and change.<br />Section F: Technology.  This collection of articles is a high-level overview that is aimed at upper management and decision makers to reveal the technical issues. Included are: content as cornerstone, testing, underlying technology, security and the impact of e-business on IT organizations.<br />Each chapter is an easy read and is packed with only the essentials.  In fact, I marveled at the way the information is condensed and presented because most chapters were less than 10 pages, yet captured everything a decision maker needs to know.  In many respects this book is similar to a highly focused collection of Gartner or Meta Group reports, and therein lies the value - busy executives can quickly get the information they need to make strategic and tactical decisions without getting bogged down in unnecessary details.	2002-05-04
1555852:US	53037408	RX03CSIKPZPTR	0521781183	763372984	Management Decision Making: Spreadsheet Modeling, Analysis, and Application	Books	5	25	25	N	N	College text that is valuable to working professionals	This college-level text is also useful to business and IT professionals because it provides a refresher for decision techniques that are the foundation of a number of disciplines.  The book is divided into two parts:  (1) deterministic methods, mainly focused on linear programming and optimization, and (2) probability and queuing.<br />What makes this book valuable to the practicing professional is that it uses one of the most common business tools, Microsoft Excel, and shows how to apply this tool to real world problems. The accompanying CD ROM comes with TreePlan for developing decision trees and CrystalBall for Monte Carlo simulation, as well as workbooks that are used to support the plethora of realistic examples used throughout the book.<br />Although the book is business-oriented and better suited for operations analysis and MBA students and practitioners, I've used it as a reference for project planning, computer system capacity planning and performance analysis, and IT security risk management - these practical uses of the material show the value of the book in the real world.  The supporting web site that the author maintains has materials for lesson plans, errata and additional resources that make this book particularly valuable for the academic and business environments.	2002-05-04
1555950:US	53037408	R1US3UW9HV2D18	1878289543	306947644	Software Process Improvement: Concepts and Practices	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For experienced practitioners - not an introductory book	The value of this book is that it examines software process improvement from the perspective of business value instead of why it makes sense from a software engineering process point of view.  I found this refreshing because too many books on this topic are focused on the technical advantages and give lip service to business benefits, if they are mentioned at all.<br />Another interesting aspect of this book is the chapter on using the Capability Maturity Model with small projects and/or in small organizations.  The discussion shows how a 'heavy' process improvement approach can be effectively used to good advantage in scaled-down environments.  Considering how many large organizations are struggling with implementing the CMM this chapter alone makes buying this book worthwhile because it shows how to get a handle on the daunting task of implementing the CMM.<br />Parts of the book that I especially like are: Communicating Project Drift Through Cost/Benefit Scenarios and Linking Strategies To Organizational Goals.  Another strong chapter is Technical Infrastructure for Process Support, which provides clear direction for implementing a process-based paradigm.<br />This book is not a primary text on the subject and is probably not the first that someone new to SPI should turn to (I recommend Successful Software Process Improvement by Robert B. Grady as an introductory text), but is full of practical ideas for someone who works with SPI.	2002-05-04
1556125:US	53037408	R2FXS2F3WIS8N9	1881585085	109840647	Information Security Roles & Responsibilities Made Easy, Version 1	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Essential Resource	This book is the other half of the author's excellent Information Security Policies Made Easy (version 8), which provides 1175 ready-made policies on CD ROM.  What makes this book complement the policy book is that once the policies are written they are useless without defined roles and responsibilities assigned to manage and enforce them,<br />Included in this book (and in soft copy on the accompanying CD ROM) are organizational mission statements that form the framework for policies, job descriptions for major security role players, and organizational structures with reporting relationships.<br />The book does not merely present the roles and responsibilities - it goes into the hows and whys, and steps you through the definition and development of a security function in which the roles and responsibilities are defined.  More important, the author does not use a canned approach, but provides alternative structures that will allow you to develop and implement the organization that is best aligned to your company.  This is one of the most practical and flexible approaches I've seen, and shows the author's extensive experience and realistic attitude. Equally important is the fact that small companies are also addressed, making this book valuable to organizations of all sizes.<br />You're stepped through the process of identifying your requirements, tailoring the documents provided on the CD ROM to reflect those requirements, and given an idea of the time and resources needed to implement them.  In addition to the documented roles and responsibilities and organizational structures provided, this book also covers (and the CD ROM provides) pamphlets to promote security awareness, memos, forms, action plans, a sample security manual and standards, and other documents that will be needed to effectively implement a security organization.<br />The chapter on common mistakes is worth its weight in gold, as are the appendices, which cover staffing levels, qualifications (this is valuable to HR), and IS security metrics.<br />Regardless of company size or scope of your security organization, this book will save literally hundreds of hours of research, document development and planning.  Even for a small company of 25-100 employees this book will pay for itself many times over, and for a large company the value that this book (and the companion book I mentioned above) represents can run into the tens of thousands of dollars.(this is valuable to HR), and IS security metrics.<br />Regardless of company size or scope of your security organization, this book will save literally hundreds of hours of research, document development and planning.  Even for a small company of 25-100 employees this book will pay for itself many times over, and for a large company the value that this book (and the companion book I mentioned above) represents can run into the tens of thousands of dollars.	2002-05-04
1556248:US	53037408	R37M5HT31EK5TX	1563473836	242755101	Effective Risk Management: Some Keys to Success	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Practical insteal of theoretical	This book is for risk management professionals, or those who work with risk management (project managers, IT security and business continuity professionals and engineers) who want or need to master advanced risk management techniques based on real world issues and factors. Although the book is focused on risk management from a DoD contracting perspective, the material is applicable to commercial organizations as well. The author provides an appendix that compare DoD contracting and commercial environments to ensure that this book has a wide appeal (A Comparison of Risk Management for Commercial and Defense Programs).  Obviously if you work in the DoD contracting industry this book is going to be more applicable.<br /><br />The book begins with an introduction that discusses risk management, why it's needed and what it is.  I felt that this material was too basic for an advanced book, but the subsequent chapters quickly got to the heart of the subject by providing the details for an implementation life cycle of an effective risk management process that consists of:<br />(1) Implementation<br />(2) Planning<br />(3) Identification<br />(4) Analysis<br />(5) Managing risks<br />(6) Monitoring<br />What makes this book valuable for real world practitioners are the pragmatic advice for developing a risk management process that is based on the lessons learned by the author and best practices.  In fact, there are over 250 such lessons learned. These alone make the book worthwhile for even the most experienced practitioner because there are sure to be many that you may not have considered.  In addition to the best practices, the author provides pitfalls common to risk management and how to avoid them.<br />Another aspect of this book that adds value is the use of readily available tools, such as Microsoft Excel, and popular simulation software (CrystalBall) to reinforce the techniques that are described in the book.  Overall this is one of the best books on risk management that I own because it goes into deep detail and coves advanced topics. It also is practical instead of theoretical, which sets it apart from most risk management books.t books on risk management that I own because it goes into deep detail and coves advanced topics. It also is practical instead of theoretical, which sets it apart from most risk management books.	2002-05-04
1556322:US	53037408	R1FLQHFCPSNIOX	1881585077	588426599	Information Security Policies Made Easy Version 8	Books	5	1	1	N	N	High value resource	The 1175 policies contained in this book are also provided in soft copy on the accompanying CD ROM, making this one of the most valuable resources to companies that need to cost-effectively develop and implement policies.  This book is also particularly valuable for consultants, although the licensing appears to restrict the use of the policies if they are used verbatim.  However, each of the policies are too generic to be used as is, so for consultants their value if the key elements and discussion of each.<br />Unlike other collections of security policies that I've purchased, this collection is up-to-date and address contemporary requirements. Among the specific policies in this collection are those that address:<br />- HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), which is a high priority requirement in the health care industry<br />- Gramm, Leach, Bliley Act for US federal government organizations<br />- European Union Data Protection Directive, which makes this book as applicable to European readers as it does to US audiences<br />In addition, the policy collection addresses issues such as social engineering, digital signatures and public key infrastructures, which show the breadth of topics covered.  It also addresses credit card fraud, internet use policies (another hot topic) and network and internet security.<br />What I like is the fact that the book is much more than a collection of policies - it also discusses implementation and enforcement issues, contains checklists for developing (or tailoring) and implementation of the policies.<br />On the topic of value:  this book contains 18 core policies that should be in place regardless of company type.  These alone would take between 150 and 200 hours to develop. Using the fully loaded rate by in-house experts it's easy to make a business case for buying this book because these 18 policies alone would cost more to develop from scratch than the cost of the book. If you are using consultants the cost savings will be dramatic.  In addition to this book I recommend investing in the author's other book, Information Security Roles & Responsibilities Made Easy, which completes the picture for developing an effective security organization and posture.t savings will be dramatic.  In addition to this book I recommend investing in the author's other book, Information Security Roles & Responsibilities Made Easy, which completes the picture for developing an effective security organization and posture.	2002-05-04
1565769:US	53037408	RVGY8QA3FUW8D	0130676152	299203013	A Practical Guide to Feature-Driven Development	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Elegant, Effective and Powerful	The Feature-Driven Development (FDD) method proposed and described in this book is elegant in that it combines simplicity and power, and effective because it will deliver applications that support business requirements.<br />Although the approach is based on object-oriented development, and the book is focused towards that approach, it can be refactored into function- and procedure-oriented programming environments.  Moreover, the book is written to fit within agile methods, but the approach can be fit to any development life cycle approach.  This is because the focus is on features, which translate into what the business *needs* from an application. This is where elegance and simplicity comes in.  By focusing on the features needed applications are less apt to be 'gold-plated' with unnecessary features that developers may think is nice, but add little business value.  In this respect the time to deliver is shortened and what is delivered is going to reflect genuine business requirements.<br />The power of FDD comes from the highly structured approach that i based on the ETVX (entry-task-validation-exit) framework.  Entry criteria is typical: requirements, authority to proceed and other 'quality gates' that must be passed before a development project is initiated.  The tasks follow a five-step process as follows:<br />(1) Develop the model, including scope, validation in the form of walkthroughs, and peer reviews.  The approach described in the book assumes an object model, but in a non-OO setting this can be realigned to first cut system diagramming in the form of block- and data flow-diagrams,and first-cut design.<br />(2) Build the features list.  The OO approach is domain partitioning based on the model; in a non-OO setting this is where the team maps functional requirements to features.<br />(3) Plan by feature.  This step, in my opinion, shows FDD to be a legitimate software engineering method.  Feature prioritization, dependency analysis and effort estimation occur here.  Done properly this step will make the difference between success or failure.  I do have one issue with the book at this point:  the prioritization is done by the technical team - it should be done with the business stakeholders.<br />(4) Design by feature.  This is an iterative step that feeds back into step 1 (build the model) wherein class ownership is determined and the original model is refined based on the design approach.  In non-OO environments this would loop back into the first-cut design and trigger trade-off analysis and design refinement.<br />(5) Build by feature.  This is where the application is actually developed on a feature-by-feature basis within the context of the defined architecture (model).<br />Verification is accomplished using traditional methods. The authors introduce what they call 'feature-based testing' which is no different than product test (also called functional qualification testing, and in some circles, acceptance testing).  Verification procedures are thoroughly covered in the book, further adding to the software engineering approach that is incorporated into FDD. Exit criteria is when the sponsors accept the system.<br />What makes this book important is that is gives a straightforward approach that is based on deliverables (features) within a process context (ETVX). This approach is consistent with best practices in software project management and has the additional benefit of assuring that what gets designed and built is what the customer needs.  Bolt FDD onto your favorite methodology and you'll probably see quality increase, and costs and time to deliver decrease.ccur here.  Done properly this step will make the difference between success or failure.  I do have one issue with the book at this point:  the prioritization is done by the technical team - it should be done with the business stakeholders.<BR>(4) Design by feature.  This is an iterative step that feeds back into step 1 (build the model) wherein class ownership is determined and the original model is refined based on the design approach.  In non-OO environments this would loop back into the first-cut design and trigger trade-off analysis and design refinement.<BR>(5) Build by feature.  This is where the application is actually developed on a feature-by-feature basis within the context of the defined architecture (model).<br />Verification is accomplished using traditional methods. The authors introduce what they call 'feature-based testing' which is no different than product test (also called functional qualification testing, and in some circles, acceptance testing).  Verification procedures are thoroughly covered in the book, further adding to the software engineering approach that is incorporated into FDD. Exit criteria is when the sponsors accept the system.  <br />What makes this book important is that is gives a straightforward approach that is based on deliverables (features) within a process context (ETVX). This approach is consistent with best practices in software project management and has the additional benefit of assuring that what gets designed and built is what the customer needs.  Bolt FDD onto your favorite methodology and you'll probably see quality increase, and costs and time to deliver decrease.	2002-04-26
1567995:US	53037408	R2RGTXYXMQ9JGY	0130654140	577235678	Planning Smarter: Creating Blueprint-Quality Software Specifications	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Short, focused and filled with useful information	Read this book with an open mind because it is going to expose specification and planning shortcomings in the major methodologies, such as the Microsoft Solutions Framework, Unified Process, Unified Modeling Language.  In fact he states in the preface that he does not expect readers to agree with everything in this book.<br />What I like about this book is the fact that it's independent of methodologies and development environments.  More importantly, it's not another methodology, but a short, focused book that will teach you how to make your existing methodology workable.  It's also focused on the planning process and does not stray from it. Among my favorite parts are:<br />- Pathology of bad plans and how to recognize them.<br />- A best practices comparison of the CMM, Microsoft Solution Framework, UML and Rational Unified Process.  Note that I disagree (as predicted by the author in his preface) that the CMM belongs in the discussion since it's not a methodology but an indicator of process maturity based on key practices.<br />- The emphasis on communications during the planning process.  This is a common failure point and the fact that an entire chapter is devoted makes this book all the more valuable.<br />The book is engaging because the author has an active writing style and uses anecdotes from real life to reinforce points.  It's also filled with common sense (something that appears to be uncommon during the planning phases of many of the hundreds of projects in which I've been involved).  If you take the time to carefully read through this book you'll come away with some solid principles that support effective planning, and a process-oriented approach that will fit within any methodology.  Do not expect to find procedures for performing quantitative planning activities - those can be found in most books on project management. Do expect, however, to learn how to approach the planning process the right way.  I think every software project manager, requirements analyst and specification developer should read this book before taking on their next project or assignment.nts analyst and specification developer should read this book before taking on their next project or assignment.	2002-04-24
1570747:US	53037408	R1WP9GYP2NXHN8	0873895002	44305835	Customer Satisfaction Measurement Simplified: A Step-by-Step Guide for ISO 9001:2000 Certification	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A major key to ISO 9001:2000 certification	There is a single sentence in the new ISO 9001:2000 requirements that makes this book essential: &quot;Customer perception, as to whether customer requirements have been met, shall be monitored&quot;.  This book's sole purpose is to provide you with ISO 9001-friendly techniques for meeting the requirements in that sentence.  The author provides a clear, 7-step process for tackling that daunting task:<br />(1) Identify your customers.<br />(2) Identify their requirements. (Maps to ISO requirements 5.2, 7.2.1).<br />(3) Determine what you're going to measure, and how.<br />(4) Measure satisfaction based on step 3. (Maps to ISO requirement 8.2.1).<br />(5) Analyze the data. (Maps to ISO requirement 8.4).<br />(6) Report the results.<br />(7) Communicate the results and employ continuous improvement methods.  This complies with the change from the 1994 version in that continual improvement is now required, where it was only implied in the 1994 version.<br />What makes this book so valuable is that it reduces the complexities for meeting each of the requirements using the process to a series of steps in each process stage.  Each chapter contains a summary of the goals, then gives step-by-step procedures needed to attain the goals, and identifies the deliverables that must be produced.  This sounds simple on the surface. In reality implementing customer satisfaction requirements management, measurement and continuous improvement is a complex undertaking that not only touches virtually all parts of an enterprise, but also mandates a change in corporate culture.<br />Additional value in the form of worksheets and checklists covered in the appendices (and provided in electronic format on the CD ROM) make this book absolutely essential to any company that is pursuing certification (or are re certifying under the 2000 version).<br />Additional features of this book include: the author's extensive experience in customer satisfaction management is condensed into this reasonably short book, the book layout makes it easy to follow and find information, and the straightforward manner in which necessary information is presented.  This is the only book, to the best of my knowledge, that solely focuses on this aspect of ISO 9001:2000. Fortunately, it covers all of the essentials and leads you step-by-step through the process of meeting this important set of requirements.  I personally believe that it's the key to getting certified under the 2000 requirements because of the scope and magnitude of effort that is required to comply with a seemingly innocuous requirement that can be a major barrier to achieving certification., the book layout makes it easy to follow and find information, and the straightforward manner in which necessary information is presented.  This is the only book, to the best of my knowledge, that solely focuses on this aspect of ISO 9001:2000. Fortunately, it covers all of the essentials and leads you step-by-step through the process of meeting this important set of requirements.  I personally believe that it's the key to getting certified under the 2000 requirements because of the scope and magnitude of effort that is required to comply with a seemingly innocuous requirement that can be a major barrier to achieving certification.	2002-04-22
1571177:US	53037408	R37X33GYQ5YH65	0471503363	108009907	The Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis: Techniques for Experimental Design, Measurement, Simulation, and Modeling	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Lays the foundation	This seminal book was the most complete mainstream text on the subject when it was first published in 1991.  The reason it remains popular eleven years later (which is an extraordinary life for a computer book) is because it's an applied mathematics book that focuses solely on performance analysis, simulation and measurements.  Technology may change at a rapid pace, but the techniques for measuring it do not.<br />The book is broken into six parts consisting of 36 chapters and ten appendices. Part I is an overview of performance evaluation. I liked the chapter on common mistakes and how to avoid them, and the guidelines for selecting techniques and metrics.<br />Measurement techniques and tools are the focus of Part II.  the eight chapters in this part address the full spectrum, including workload types, characterization techniques, capacity planning and benchmarking, and data presentation. Most of the chapters are generic enough to be timeless.  The chapters covering execution monitors and accounting logs are showing their age, but the concepts are still valid.  I especially liked the chapters about data presentation and ratios.<br />Part III is a refresher in statistics and probability, and can safely be skipped if your knowledge and skills are fresh.  Part IV delves into experimental design and analysis, while Part V covers simulations.  The remaining six chapters of the book, Part VI, are devoted to queuing models.<br />Note that although the math is clearly explained you need college level skills in order to fully comprehend the techniques presented. I recommend investing in MathCAD or a similar program to make it easy to work the exercises that end each chapter.<br />This book is one of the handful that will be on your bookshelf for years to come.  It's probably one of the most frequently referenced works in the performance analysis, resource management and capacity planning knowledge domains.  Because it has well designed exercises at the end of each chapter it's also well suited as an advanced college level text. In my opinion it's essential reading for performance and capacity analysts, and provides an excellent foundation for more specialized books, such as those by Menasce and Almeida, that address topics such as e-commerce performance, web services, etc.pter it's also well suited as an advanced college level text. In my opinion it's essential reading for performance and capacity analysts, and provides an excellent foundation for more specialized books, such as those by Menasce and Almeida, that address topics such as e-commerce performance, web services, etc.	2002-04-22
1571253:US	53037408	R2P55QB3D3JVDD	0873894537	58844440	Analysis of Customer Satisfaction Data	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fast-paced, focused and fluff-free	This book is for advanced practitioners in marketing, contact center/customer care and other business and technical domains that need to gather and quantitatively analyze customer satisfaction data.  The focus is customer satisfaction for services more than products, but it can be used effectively in either scenario.<br />The introduction covers prior work in the field and lays the groundwork for subsequent chapters that cover instrumentation, data preparation, an analysis framework and models.<br />The key strengths of this book are the framework, which is highly structured, the models and exploratory data analysis.  I liked the discussion of regression analysis problems, and the chapters on causal modeling and interdependency models. I also liked the fact that this book is short, crammed with information and techniques, and does not lose its focus.  You will need to brush up on your math skills because while this book reads well and is fast-paced, it is also detailed and is heavy with quantitative methods. If I had to recommend one book on customer satisfaction data analysis this is it.	2002-04-22
1572060:US	53037408	R1DTD59XIYSLJ9	0201786060	869915053	Requirements by Collaboration: Workshops for Defining Needs	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Synthesizes PD, RD and JAD	This ground breaking book blends the best of PD (Participatory Design), RD (Rapid Development) and JAD (joint application development). To this synthesis it adds modern elements such as business rules.  To understand why this book is a ground breaking work a little history is in order. Participatory design (PD) began in England by Enid Mumford and was refined in Scandinavia by Pelle Ehn and Morten Kyng in the late 1970s. RD (Rapid Development) was first formalized by DuPont in mid 1980s and was then known as Rapid Iterative Production Prototyping (RIPP). JAD was first developed by Toby Crawford and Chuck Morris at IBM in 1977.  Each of these approaches have one thing in common: participatory requirements elicitation accomplished in a workshop setting.<br />Most previous work about these approaches focused on general aspects of workshop management and requirements.  Although this book certainly addresses these two aspects, it goes beyond.<br />This book is structured in three parts and 12 chapters. Part I covers the basics of constructing a workshop and provides a comprehensive list of deliverables.  The author's web site that supports this book provides checklists and templates in Word and PDF format, which will save you time. The web site also has links to other resources that will prove extremely useful. Part II provides the workshop framework, covering logistics, managing roles and ground rules and the workshop process itself.  Part III addresses the strategies for conducting the workshop.  What I particularly like about this book are:<br />(1) It defines a process with inputs, tasks and defined outputs (deliverables).<br />(2) Adds structure by aligning business problems to model views, and by defining the deliverables that need to be produced to develop the model.  The models views are: behavior, structural, dynamic and control.  These cover the four basic business problem domains.<br />(3)Does not lock you into any single model (you can use multiple model types), and provides criteria for selecting the best model(s) to employ for capturing requirements.<br />(4) Introduces business rules, which is (in my opinion) one of the most powerful and effective means of capturing requirements.<br />The approach set forth is effective and thoroughly modernizes the approaches that were synthesized.  More importantly it provides a structure in which to conduct participatory workshops, and clearly defines the types of goals you should be setting based on the business problem, and clear definitions of the deliverables that the workshop should produce.  This book goes into my short list of best books read in 2002, and I suspect it will remain on my short list of recommended books for years to come.), and provides criteria for selecting the best model(s) to employ for capturing requirements.<BR>(4) Introduces business rules, which is (in my opinion) one of the most powerful and effective means of capturing requirements.<br />The approach set forth is effective and thoroughly modernizes the approaches that were synthesized.  More importantly it provides a structure in which to conduct participatory workshops, and clearly defines the types of goals you should be setting based on the business problem, and clear definitions of the deliverables that the workshop should produce.  This book goes into my short list of best books read in 2002, and I suspect it will remain on my short list of recommended books for years to come.	2002-04-21
1572067:US	53037408	R3A4FTWDPYOV2S	0201699508	655520591	Essential Checkpoint Firewall-1: An Installation, Configuration, and Troubleshooting Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Lives up to its title!	This is one of those rare books that delivers what the title claims.  It gives in-depth instructions on Firewall-1 installation, configuration and troubleshooting, and also includes additional material on security and networking that goes beyond what the title promises.<br />What I especially liked about this book are the little details that have a big impact if they're overlooked.  Notable examples include:<br />(1) Quick, but thorough, introduction that provides an overview of firewalls at a general level, and the key features and benefits of Firewall-1 in particular.<br />(2) Issues, such the need for a security policy, are addressed early on.  This is an important consideration and the author goes beyond merely highlighting the need by giving you a brief template to use in creating one.<br />(3) Guide through the labyrinth of Check Point's Firewall-1 licensing schemes - this is a nice touch because mastering the technology is a less daunting task then figuring out Check Point's sales strategy.<br />(4) Strengths and weaknesses of candidate operating systems, and a straightforward process for installing and configuring Firewall-1.  The latter is a strong point because you'll benefit from the author's extensive experience and will save time by having a strategy instead of getting bit by obscure issues and learning painful lessons.<br />I like the way that each section ends with frequently asked questions.  The author anticipates and answers common questions about installation, configuration and troubleshooting.  Because of the way this book is structured it can serve as an off-the-shelf implementation and maintenance guide, eliminating the need to develop this material in-house.<br />This is one of the best written and well thought-out technical guides that I've had the pleasure of reading.  It sets a high standard for similar books, but more importantly, it so completely covers Firewall-1 that you won't need anything but this book to implement and support this product..	2002-04-21
1572272:US	53037408	RGTJX3SSFQIZQ	059512674X	72637426	The Practical Performance Analyst	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Solid, readable and covers topics not found elsewhere	Although this book's full value will be realized if you understand the C programming language (he uses source code it illustrate points throughout the book and provides a C library for performance analysis on the accompanying disk), anyone with good math skills will gain much from this outstanding book.<br />The core approach is Performance By Design, which is aligned to product development.  His approach, if used properly, will ensure that performance goals are established in the design phase, and are met as a system or software evolves through the development life cycle.<br />Highlights of the book are:<br />(1) Through introduction to the foundation of performance: queuing, parallelism and multiprocessor systems.<br />(2) Coverage of contemporary issues, such as client/server and web system performance,<br />(3) Unexpected forays into performance characteristics and considerations that I've encountered in no other book.  For example, Part 3 of this book addresses subtle issues such as transient analysis, scaling behavior and similar topics.  Here the author integrates theoretical physics into performance analysis - while this may seem odd, it only reinforces that much can be added to the performance analysis body of knowledge by drawing from sources outside of computer science.  His qualifications for this material includes a Ph.D in theoretical physics, and his ability to clearly explain concepts that are foreign to the average computer scientist or performance practitioner is excellent.<br />I like the conversation style that the author employs, the way he starts with the basics and builds upon them and the thoroughness in which all aspects of performance are discussed. More importantly, although advanced math concepts are introduced the way they are presented can be understood by anyone with high school or college freshman knowledge of probability and calculus.	2002-04-21
1574335:US	53037408	RCYMG1WKOAP1I	020174158X	380844612	IT Measurement: Practical Advice from the Experts	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Goes well beyond software estimating	This book is a panoramic view of metrics across the enterprise.  Although the book is written by members of the International Function Point Users Group it goes well beyond software estimating.  It encompasses measurement techniques that are consistent with function points, but are also useful when applied to other methods.As expected, the book starts with a discussion of function points, its evolution as a methodology, and how it has evolved as a means of measuring a full spectrum of attributes, such as quality, productivity, time and effort. In addition to generic attribute metrics this book shows how function points can be applied to earned value project management, developing a balanced scorecard that views the enterprise holisitcally, business and e-commerce metrics and evaluations and benchmarking.<br />Parts that I especially like include:<br />* The complete data collection, analysis and action process that is embodied in the book.  This can be used in any setting, such as the Constructive Cost Model (CoCoMo), as well as FP.<br />* IT work units, which are applicable to production services and support.  This dispells the notion that function points are only useful for software estimating. This is also augmented by a later section in the book that addresses IT and business measures that is sure to change the way you approach measuring the overall value of IT.<br />* Demonstrated use of function points as a viable project estimating technique that extends to projects other than software development.<br />* Clearly written explanation of statistical process controls.<br />I've only highlighted the parts of the book in which I have personal and professional interests. The book contains much more material that covers the entire spectrum of enterprise metrics, including case studies and reflecting the views of each individual author who contributed chapter(s).  In my opinion this book is, and will remain for years to come, one of the most important texts on IT measurement.  Time will tell, of course, but I haven't found a more complete book on the subject.rement.  Time will tell, of course, but I haven't found a more complete book on the subject.	2002-04-19
1574712:US	53037408	R362NK8X8ABIO9	0201731320	219447203	Framework Process Patterns: Lessons Learned Developing Application Frameworks	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wealth of details &amp; cogent approach wrapped in a case study	The authors begin this book with their definition of a framework, &quot;[a] set of components working together so they address a number of problems in one or more domains&quot;, which also defines the audience.  If you're interested in frameworks (and it you're on an OO environment you should be) you'll like this book.  If you're using the San Francisco framework you'll certainly enjoy the case study that runs through the book.  It's centered on the development of San Francisco framework from which the lessons learned in this book are derived.<br />Among the many highlights of this excellent book, aside from the fact that it's based on a real project, are: use of patterns (I'm a staunch proponent), including process and components (with an emphasis on process), and the attention given to the team and people aspects of framework development.  In fact, the team/people side of this book is its strongest feature, and the lessons learned are more valuable than the technical aspects.  Another highlight is the paradigm in which the authors approach framework development in the same manner that a mature organization would approach application development.  This parallel places framework development, by its nature an abstract endeavor, into a context that is familiar and will go a long way towards attaining buy-in from that group of stakeholders.  The authors also infuse a heavy dose of common sense and reality into their approach, which is evidenced by the emphasis on capability trade-offs and social aspects of framework development.  The two appendices are also valuable:  Appendix A discusses frameworks and components, and Appendix B is a condenced overview of the San Fransicso framework development process.  These flesh out the body of the book and provide background material on the case study upon which the book is built.<br />The book itself is aligned to a lifecycle.  It starts with a clear discussion of the fundamentals of developing a framework.  This is followed by sections that flow from requirements to analysis to design, culminating in documentation.  The final two parts of the book are the capstone: social aspects and framework use.  The central theme is consistency, and the value is in what works and what doesn't.  Most importantly, this is a book that is grounded in the real world, and is written by two authors had key roles in developing a major framework.<br />One final note: the approach and lessons in this book can also be refactored into a wider array of frameworks, such as project management, service delivery and operations management, and other process-oriented activities outside of the development domain.sections that flow from requirements to analysis to design, culminating in documentation.  The final two parts of the book are the capstone: social aspects and framework use.  The central theme is consistency, and the value is in what works and what doesn't.  Most importantly, this is a book that is grounded in the real world, and is written by two authors had key roles in developing a major framework.<br />One final note: the approach and lessons in this book can also be refactored into a wider array of frameworks, such as project management, service delivery and operations management, and other process-oriented activities outside of the development domain.	2002-04-18
1575202:US	53037408	RJWPXEZ1NQL1S	0201719568	749447204	Hack I.T. - Security Through Penetration Testing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Guns don't kill - criminals do	This book is like a loaded gun.  In the wrong hands the information can be used to harm, but in more benevolent hands the information can be used to protect.  This is especially true when you subscribe to the adage that forewarned is forearmed.<br />The authors have collected the most common penetration exploits and tools used by those who will attempt to penetrate your systems and have presented them in encyclopedia fashion. Each of the techniques and tools are thoroughly discussed from the aspect of defense through penetration testing to assure that common exposures are deal with.  This information is valuable for two reasons:<br />(1) Each of the most common security exposures are identified, and how attackers exploit them is thoroughly examined.  This is the forewarning part that you'll come away with.<br />(2) The tools your attackers will probably use are provided on CD ROM, and the book shows you how your attackers will probably use them, as well as how you can use these tools to test your systems. (NOTE: many of the tools are provided as source code).<br />Here are the book's strengths and weaknesses:<br />Strengths:  it raises awareness, provides tools and techniques, and discusses the legal aspects of penetration testing.  The last strength is especially important because you're need a signed \\"get out of jail\\" card before embarking on penetration testing, either as an employee or consultant to the target.  One key point the authors make, and which should be at the top of any checklist, is ensuring that whomever authorizes the penetration testing actually has the authority to do so.<br />Weaknesses: no structured approach - the authors provide many anecdotes, discuss cases and what they did, but is appears to be ad hoc with no test plan or test cases.  These should have been included because penetration testing should be a part of any test strategy developed and executed by software QA personnel as a part of acceptance and product qualification test cycles. Since the authors are all employees of a well known international consulting firm I was disappointed that this material was omitted.<br />Overall:  this book is valuable because it addresses head on the techniques and tools against which you need to defend your systems.  The added value is that you'll become skilled in the use of these tools and techniques to exploit your own systems, discover the holes and close them.  Of course you should prudently track the latest attack ploys by monitoring the URLs and newsgroups that are provided in the book because the tools and techniques are constantly evolving. The book will get you started, but it's up to you to keep up.  On the other hand, the unskilled \\"script kiddies\\" will also benefit from this book because it clearly explains the technical underpinnings.  That unintended audience can, unfortunately, use this book to increase their skills.  Despite the noted weaknesses this book is valuable as long as you're aware that it's only a starting point and it's your responsibility to take the knowledge and tools and keep them up-to-date.Since the authors are all employees of a well known international consulting firm I was disappointed that this material was omitted.<br />Overall:  this book is valuable because it addresses head on the techniques and tools against which you need to defend your systems.  The added value is that you'll become skilled in the use of these tools and techniques to exploit your own systems, discover the holes and close them.  Of course you should prudently track the latest attack ploys by monitoring the URLs and newsgroups that are provided in the book because the tools and techniques are constantly evolving. The book will get you started, but it's up to you to keep up.  On the other hand, the unskilled \\"script kiddies\\" will also benefit from this book because it clearly explains the technical underpinnings.  That unintended audience can, unfortunately, use this book to increase their skills.  Despite the noted weaknesses this book is valuable as long as you're aware that it's only a starting point and it's your responsibility to take the knowledge and tools and keep them up-to-date.	2002-04-18
1575349:US	53037408	RPG762W53DOUE	0072441208	903375402	Cyberlaw and E-Commerce	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Real advice for real life issues	This 12 chapter book is intended as a college text for business majors.  However, it also deserves a place on the working professional's bookshelf, and is suited to both business and IT professionals.<br />Highlights: It's an up-to-date text that addresses the full range of topics from the contemporary legal environment defined and changed by the internet, to business agreements.  The chapters on contract law, privacy and liability are essential reading for anyone involved in e-commerce, either as a business process owner or as an IT professional who is responsible for online content.<br />The first seven chapters are my favorite because they covered information that is of particular interest to business and IT professionals.  Chapter 1 covers the legal landscape of e-commerce issues, then segues into three chapters on contract law, present and future issues of contract law that are specific to e-commerce, and contracting and licensing software.  These chapters realistically address real issues and challenges.  These chapters build the foundation for the next chapters that cover torts in general, and cyber torts in particular, and liability issues (often overlooked, but a all-too-real exposure).<br />Chapters 8 through 10 cover intellectual property in great detail.  This topic is an inescapable reality of doing business over the internet, and is one in which the legal issues are still evolving.  I recommend that anyone who focuses on this aspect of law also read Bill Zoellick's excellent book, CyberRegs: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents.  Chapter 11 is a brief examination of business organization that can be glossed over, but the final chapter, 12, on cyber companies and internet agreements is an essential chapter that is filled with invaluable facts and advice.<br />Don't let the fact that this is a college text deter you from purchasing this book.  It is an excellent deskside reference that will guide you through real life issues.	2002-04-18
1575619:US	53037408	R3QQ0NU3QOWIC3	0131949608	335149797	Crunch Mode: Building Effective Systems on a Tight Schedule (Yourdon Press Computing Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Yin to Mythical Man Month's Yan	Where Brook's The Mythical Man Month documents the lessons learned during the development of IBM's OS/360, this 15-year-old book documents the lessons learned during the development of a betting system.  The Mythical Man Month focused on project failures (making it probably the first book of anti-patterns), while this book focuses on success.  Despite its age this book is probably more valid today than when it was first published, and remains one of the best books on IT project management.<br />Key points:<br />(1) Heavy emphasis on getting business requirements and ensuring that the solution that unfolds is aligned to those requirements. This also incorporates scope management from the beginning of the project, which, with requirements, is a make-or-break factor for project success.<br />(2)How to deal with team issues. One of the recurring challenges that the author faced during the project was how to manage the people part of the equation - his approach epitomizes best practices for controlling meetings, coordinating resources and facilitating trade-offs and managing team and customer expectations.  What makes this aspect of the book so powerful is the fact that the project was initiated in 'crunch mode' from the beginning. Leadership and management are key themes throughout this book - something that seems to be often left out in more modern books on IT project management.<br />(3) Estimating and controlling a dynamic project on the fly are two strong points in this book.  Although the project is approached as a traditional waterfall development life cycle, and the technical environment described is archaic, the author's approach is as valid using modern techniques and iterative development life cycles that are currently popular.<br />What I like: the book is structured around a case study that runs throughout the book. The case study is a real &quot;crunch mode&quot; project that was tossed in the author's lap, and the book is a chronicle of how the project was successfully completed within a compressed timeframe with a hastily thrown together team. This adds credibility to the methods that are presented, all of which still remain as best practices in IT project management.  It also makes this slim, 192-page book highly readable (you can read it in an evening). The chapter on Dealing with Disaster should be required reading for all IT project managers.  If the appendix, Brief Description of Design Tools, was updated to show mapping to contemporary tools this book would be as fresh today as when it was first published.  In addition to this book I recommend Managing a Programming Project: People and Processes, which contains contributions by the author.successfully completed within a compressed timeframe with a hastily thrown together team. This adds credibility to the methods that are presented, all of which still remain as best practices in IT project management.  It also makes this slim, 192-page book highly readable (you can read it in an evening). The chapter on Dealing with Disaster should be required reading for all IT project managers.  If the appendix, Brief Description of Design Tools, was updated to show mapping to contemporary tools this book would be as fresh today as when it was first published.  In addition to this book I recommend Managing a Programming Project: People and Processes, which contains contributions by the author.	2002-04-18
1575720:US	53037408	R1KIJJ7TJPB0GP	0201730626	106120389	The CRM Handbook: A Business Guide to Customer Relationship Management	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Perfect balance of technical &amp; business + sage advice	Jill Dych&eacute; is one author who never disappoints, and this book is as straightforward and balanced as her first, e-data.  Like her first book this one is a balance between technical and business aspects that make it suitable for IT and business process owners.  The technical topics are so clearly presented that business process owners will have no trouble understanding them, yet are sufficiently wide that even seasoned IT professionals will learn something new.  The same for the business topics:  Ms. Dych&eacute;'s deep understanding of the business issues ensures that subject matter experts from the business side will come away with ideas and knowledge, while their IT counterparts will have a keener appreciation for the issues and challenges faced by their constituents.<br />What makes this book especially valuable, though, are the wealth of checklists, do's and don't's, and case studies that are real - so real in fact that I couldn't help but both admire her clients who allowed themselves to be quoted, and the obvious persuasive power Ms. Dych&eacute; used to obtain their permission to quote them.  In fact, power is something Jill exhibits throughout this book.  Like her first book she in which tells it like it is, she is quick to point out the good and the bad - and nothing escapes her notice.  More importantly, her frankness is contagious and inspires you to take the same approach.  A priceless example is given in chapter 10 where she tackles company and project politics head on.  Most consultants will do anything to remain politically correct, resulting in wishy-washy advice that is filled with qualifiers.  Not Jill - she calls 'em as she sees 'em, and the net result is advice that you can use to tackle thorny issues that everyone knows about, but nobody wants to bring up.  I also like her emphasis on process before technology, and the reasons why CRM without a dramatic change in culture and business processes will not work.  This sets expectations that need to be set up front.<br />Another reason to buy and read this book is CRM and its many components, processes and technical underpinnings are clearly explained.  A case in point:  ask 3-5 people to define CRM and you'll get different answers.  This book pins it down to a coherent definition that is backed up with clear linkage to business imperatives and a clear understanding of the scope and magnitude of what it takes to implement CRM (including sales force automation).  The first six chapters in the book give the definition within the context of business goals, and reinforce them with case studies.  The second half of the book, Delivering CRM, is where the business, process, project and technology come together.<br />As a whole this book portrays a balanced picture. If you want (or need) to undersatnd CRM, its value, how it relates to business processes and what it takes to implement it, you'll find it all here. Read the book, use the checklists and heed the invaluable advice given on practically every page and you'll have everything you need for a successful implementation.ont.<br />Another reason to buy and read this book is CRM and its many components, processes and technical underpinnings are clearly explained.  A case in point:  ask 3-5 people to define CRM and you'll get different answers.  This book pins it down to a coherent definition that is backed up with clear linkage to business imperatives and a clear understanding of the scope and magnitude of what it takes to implement CRM (including sales force automation).  The first six chapters in the book give the definition within the context of business goals, and reinforce them with case studies.  The second half of the book, Delivering CRM, is where the business, process, project and technology come together.   <br />As a whole this book portrays a balanced picture. If you want (or need) to undersatnd CRM, its value, how it relates to business processes and what it takes to implement it, you'll find it all here. Read the book, use the checklists and heed the invaluable advice given on practically every page and you'll have everything you need for a successful implementation.	2002-04-18
1577211:US	53037408	R2QDQ3KKJBFVL9	0957778325	707218892	Planning Using Primavera SureTrak Project Manager Version 3.0	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fast start to using the power of SureTrak	Although SureTrak Project Manager 3.0 ships with adequate documentation and the program is intuitive, there are three good reasons to buy this book:<br />1. The product documentation covers every feature - the information about planning and managing projects using this powerful tool is scattered throughout, making it difficult to tap into SureTrak's power without wading through an overwhelming amount of nice-to-know, but non-essential detail.<br />2. Although anyone who has used Microsoft's ubiquitous MS Project will have no problem getting started with SureTrak, they will miss the true project management features of SureTrak that are not present (or don't correctly work) in MS Project.  This book identifies those features and shows how to use them effectively.<br />3. The author goes beyond merely describing how to use SureTrak by showing you how to use effective project management techniques, many of which take years of managing projects to discover.<br />The book is structured as a series of 20 lessons (called workshops) that are designed to step you through setting up a project, and planning and scheduling it.  If you follow them in sequence you will be able to not only set up a project using SureTrak's rich feature set, but will also pick up general project management techniques along the way.  An example of one such technique is how the author classifies projects into four levels for planning and controlling.  These levels are based on project complexity, with Level 1 being the simplest and suitable for short projects, to Level 4 for complex, high-value projects.  You are given the planning and tracking criteria for each project type, which allows you to tailor your approach as well as ensure that you don't over-manage simple projects or under-manage the complex ones.<br />You are also shown how to use the more powerful features, such as the many project views (work breakdown structure, activity or resource), managing the sophisticated calendaring functions, and effectively using the resource profiles and reporting features. I particularly like the way earned value is treated.  The author shows how to use SureTrak's facilities for managing to earned value, as well as explaining this essential technique (which, by the way, is now a part of the Project Management Institute's PMBOK 2000 version). Another bonus is the way scheduling is explained by walking through adding logic to activities. You'll not only be shown how to perform this task, but given reasons why you should use one approach from among four possibilities to establish relationships. In this example the choices are start-to-start, finish-to-start, start-to-finish and finish-to-finish.<br />This book is clear, concise and heavily illustrated with screenshots from SureTrak.  The tutorial style and the way the lessons are sequenced will get you quickly up-to-speed with SureTrak and give you the knowledge and skills necessary to employ it with minimum reference to the manuals that come with the software.nd effectively using the resource profiles and reporting features. I particularly like the way earned value is treated.  The author shows how to use SureTrak's facilities for managing to earned value, as well as explaining this essential technique (which, by the way, is now a part of the Project Management Institute's PMBOK 2000 version). Another bonus is the way scheduling is explained by walking through adding logic to activities. You'll not only be shown how to perform this task, but given reasons why you should use one approach from among four possibilities to establish relationships. In this example the choices are start-to-start, finish-to-start, start-to-finish and finish-to-finish.<br />This book is clear, concise and heavily illustrated with screenshots from SureTrak.  The tutorial style and the way the lessons are sequenced will get you quickly up-to-speed with SureTrak and give you the knowledge and skills necessary to employ it with minimum reference to the manuals that come with the software.	2002-04-16
1577978:US	53037408	R29EL1QJJX2DBX	0201615991	435201721	Authentication: From Passwords to Public Keys	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Masterful writing and in-depth treatment of the subject	I'm in complete agreement with the previous reviewers that this book is easy to read and that it clearly explains complex material.<br />What I like is the way the author integrates theory, application and the human side of authentication.  For example, he makes excellent use of tables to distill and display information, such as summary tables for attacks and defenses that are cross-referenced to each other.  This is particularly useful to anyone who is developing security profiles, and the thorough and meticulous way that the author summarizes the information reduces the attack-defense pairings to the essentials.<br />His clear explanations of authentication methods and their underlying technologies, as well as how they evolved, are among the clearest in print.  More importantly, he goes beyond explaining the mathematics behind the protocols by also showing how assumptions can lead to exposures.  An example is the 4-digit lock, which has 10,000 possible combinations.  At first glance it would seem that you have a 1-in-10000 chance of guessing the combination.  However, he goes on to explain that a study showed 50% of people chose a calendar date for the combination, then leads you through the math of showing why you have approximately 1-in-512 chance of breaking the combination on the first try. He uses similar techniques throughout the book, which makes you think in real-world terms.  It's his treatment of the people side of the authentication techniques that add to the real-world approach.<br />I also thought that the chapter on picking PINs and passwords was exceptional.  I've written password management policies and procedures for a number of clients in recent years and thought I was an expert.  After reading this 37-page chapter I discovered what I didn't know - and it was a lot!<br />Each chapter is filled with facts that you may have or have not considered, and each is filled with common sense, backed up with the math or technical underpinnings.  Moreover, the book complete covers authentication and will get anyone quickly up-to-speed on the basics and many of the finer points.  This book is especially important as a resource to anyone who is involved in health care because the material is directly applicable to requirements set forth in HIPAA.  It is also essential reading for anyone who develops or manages security in a web- or e-commerce environment because of the dependencies upon the technologies and methods that are discussed in this book. IT security specialists will also find this book to be an invaluable resource, especially the parts that cover password management, social engineering and practical applications of authentication.over, the book complete covers authentication and will get anyone quickly up-to-speed on the basics and many of the finer points.  This book is especially important as a resource to anyone who is involved in health care because the material is directly applicable to requirements set forth in HIPAA.  It is also essential reading for anyone who develops or manages security in a web- or e-commerce environment because of the dependencies upon the technologies and methods that are discussed in this book. IT security specialists will also find this book to be an invaluable resource, especially the parts that cover password management, social engineering and practical applications of authentication.	2002-04-16
1579178:US	53037408	R3N2TJTDFQ6V80	0964600811	532640953	Assessment Coordinator's Handbook: Planning for a Well-Orchestrated Software Appraisal	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Worth it's weight in gold to right readers	This short, 41-page guide is an invaluable resource to anyone who is getting started in assessments. It's been designed to augment SEI assessment training, therefore does not supplant official SEI materials.  Here are the key features:<br />(1) Gives a two-phase approach for preparing and training for CMM assessments that are consistent with SEI guidelines. Phase I covers pre-assessment training and planning and Phase II covers on-site assessment activities.<br />(2) Provides detailed checklists for each phase. The author's extensive experience in assessments has been condensed into the essentials, which save you significant planning and artifact development time.<br />(3) Checklists are provided in two levels of detail: summary and detailed.  These are augmented by exhibits in the back of the book that provide an example schedule that you can use to benchmark your own plan, a project selection matrix, and an excerpt from a master task list.  Using these you can refine your own planning approach.<br />At first glance the price-per-page ratio will make you question the value of this book. However, consider that you'll have a succinct guide that distills the essentials.  This book can easily save you 50 hours or more of planning time, as well as step you through the process from the viewpoint of an experienced assessor. When you factor this into the equation the value becomes apparent.  More importantly, much of the material and the approach can be refactored into planning for other types of assessments - not only for SEI CMM, making this book extra valuable to consultants who engage in assessments of all types.	2002-04-15
1581229:US	53037408	R1ADYAIRT9YLX0	0849309557	42000826	Cyber Forensics: A Field Manual for Collecting, Examining, and Preserving Evidence of Computer Crimes	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Thorough and suitable for the experienced professional	This book is an excellent follow-on book to Computer Forensics: Incident Response Essentials by Kruse and Heiser, which introduces the fundamentals. This book goes much deeper and is more technical than the Kruse and Heise, therefore the ideal audience is practicing professionals who have prior experience in forensics and a wide range of hardware, software and network knowledge.<br />Tools and techniques are presented in painstaking detail.  I was unable to find a single gap or omission, which speaks highly of the editorial and review process behind this book's 464 pages. While most technical disciplines can dispense with finer details, the nature of forensics is to overlook nothing.  If you find the step-by-step thoroughness boring that is an indication that forensics may not be your forte; if you're an experienced professional you'll appreciate the coverage of every technique or use of tools.<br /><br />While the discussion of tools and techniques will satisfy even the most experienced practitioner, I found the detailed discussion of legal aspects, HR considerations and overall security and incident response processes to be the book's strongest points.  This area is what sets forensics experts apart from technicians, and it is here that the book (in my opinion) adds the most value.  Procedures ranging from how to properly gather, preserve and control evidence, to legal considerations for designing processes are covered in clear language, as are US and international legal guidelines.<br />Parts that I especially like include: intrusion management and profiling, up-to-date information on electronic commerce legal issues, the numerous checklists and cited resources, and the clearly delineated process for dealing with incidents.<br />If you're new to forensics you will probably get more from this book by first reading Computer Forensics: Incident Response Essentials by Kruse and Heiser. If, however, you have previous computer forensics experience or are currently serving in that role this book is probably one of the best investments you can make.in that role this book is probably one of the best investments you can make.	2002-04-13
1581571:US	53037408	RP5CANIUOVVD	0201707195	762886988	Computer Forensics: Incident Response Essentials	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Excellent introduction to the basics	The authors, both of whom have impeccable credentials, have managed to distill a complex subject into a book that can be understood by anyone with intermediate-level computer skills.  More importantly, computer forensics is a relatively new sub discipline of IT security, making this book important in that there are few books on the topic.<br />I'll start with the beginning and end of the book, each of which are focused on legal aspects of forensics.  The book begins by explaining what forensics is, and giving a three-step process that covers the essentials at a high level: (1) acquire evidence, (2) authenticate it, and (3) analyze it.  Although this process is presented at a high level, important details, such as the importance of establishing and maintaining a chain of custody, how to collect and document evidence and key issues to consider when presenting the evidence in court are covered.  This discussion is picked up again in Chapter 12, Introduction to the Criminal Justice System, in which applicable laws, advice on dealing with law enforcement agencies, and the distinction between criminal and civil cases are discussed.  There is sufficient detail and pointers to put sources of information to arm you with the bare essentials.<br />Between the opening chapter and Chapter 12 described above are chapters devoted to basic techniques and procedures for tracing email, specific operating system issues (the book deals with UNIX and Windows), encryption, codes and compression and other common challenges an investigator will face. The material is not overly technical, and is presented in easy-to-understand prose.  Anyone who works as a network or system administrator, provides desktop support, or is an advanced end user will have no problems following the techniques that are presented or the underlying technical details.  If you're seeking an advanced text this book will probably disappoint you, although there is sure to be some new trick or fact that you'll learn.  For example, I have over 25 years of IT experience and was fascinated by the discussion of steganography (an information hiding technique).  There were other chapters that I quickly skimmed because I was well-versed in the subject matter.<br />What I like about the book is the easy approach, which makes it easy to develop the fundamental skills necessary to perform forensics.  The few other papers and books on the subject are far more advanced and the learning curve is a barrier.  This book will give the new security investigator a foothold in the topic upon which he or she can build.  I especially liked the appendices, which provide an excellent framework for incident response.  One of the best features is the detailed roles and responsibilities, which are well thought out and reinforce the axiom that security is everyone's business.  Another outstanding feature is the flowcharts for various incident types, such as denial of service, hostile code, etc.  These can be used verbatim in a security policies and procedures manual, as can the incident response form provided in Appendix B.  I also liked the valuable URLs provided throughout the book. I knew of many, but was surprised to find invaluable resources that I didn't know about.<br />Even though much of this book presented information I already knew, I still enjoyed reading it because I picked up facts that I didn't previously know, and was reminded of  legal aspects of forensics and security that I'd forgotten.  The appendices alone make this worthwhile to even advanced readers, and the fact that it provides an entry point into forensics for new practitioners makes this book invaluable as a training tool and vehicle for professional growth.example, I have over 25 years of IT experience and was fascinated by the discussion of steganography (an information hiding technique).  There were other chapters that I quickly skimmed because I was well-versed in the subject matter.  <br />What I like about the book is the easy approach, which makes it easy to develop the fundamental skills necessary to perform forensics.  The few other papers and books on the subject are far more advanced and the learning curve is a barrier.  This book will give the new security investigator a foothold in the topic upon which he or she can build.  I especially liked the appendices, which provide an excellent framework for incident response.  One of the best features is the detailed roles and responsibilities, which are well thought out and reinforce the axiom that security is everyone's business.  Another outstanding feature is the flowcharts for various incident types, such as denial of service, hostile code, etc.  These can be used verbatim in a security policies and procedures manual, as can the incident response form provided in Appendix B.  I also liked the valuable URLs provided throughout the book. I knew of many, but was surprised to find invaluable resources that I didn't know about.<br />Even though much of this book presented information I already knew, I still enjoyed reading it because I picked up facts that I didn't previously know, and was reminded of  legal aspects of forensics and security that I'd forgotten.  The appendices alone make this worthwhile to even advanced readers, and the fact that it provides an entry point into forensics for new practitioners makes this book invaluable as a training tool and vehicle for professional growth.	2002-04-13
1581843:US	53037408	R2BKD3RCDD1LUM	020170482X	322444814	Evaluating Software Architectures: Methods and Case Studies	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Essential reading for practicing SW architects	The authors provide an in-depth treatment of three methods for<br />evaluating software architectures, all of which were developed at the<br />Software Engineering Institute with involvement by the authors.  The<br />methods examined are:<br />(1) ATAM (Architecture Tradeoff Analysis<br />Method)<br />(2) SAAM (Software Architecture Analysis Method)<br />(3)<br />ARID (Active Reviews for Intermediate Designs)<br />Each of the above<br />address software evaluations in increasing levels of detail, with the<br />book's main emphasis on ATAM.<br />What makes this book so valuable is<br />the fact that you can learn much about developing software<br />architectures from the criteria with which they are evaluated.  For<br />example, the discussion on quality attributes is eye-opening because<br />what architects consider to be well formed quality attributes are<br />usually too vague to properly evaluate, resulting in ill defined<br />architectures in the first place.  Knowing how to evaluate the<br />architecture will provide the keys for defining a solid architecture.<br />More important is the way the authors define the outputs of the<br />architecture evaluation, which gives the practicing architect a<br />framework for design that fully meets the evaluation criteria.  The<br />net result is that a defined architecture will unambiguously<br />communicate the design to the development team, as well as to the QA<br />team.<br />I especially like the business oriented approach that<br />addresses the costs and benefits of evaluation, the three approaches<br />from which to choose that best meets technical and business goals, and<br />the case studies that support each of the approaches.  Another strong<br />point about this book is architecture is also evaluated with<br />production in mind.  Too many books only consider architecture from<br />the development point of view, or in rare cases, from development and<br />QA points of view.  The evaluation techniques in this book extend to<br />support and maintenance. The authors make selection of the best<br />technique easy by comparing them in Chapter 9, and provide an approach<br />to implement evaluations in Chapter 10.<br /><br />If you're an architect I also recommend augmenting the excellent<br />material in this book  with Design and Use of Software Architectures by<br />Jan Bosch , which gives an alternate  method to ATAM that is more<br />complete in many respects. Even if you espouse Bosch's  approach,<br />however, the approach and techniques given in Evaluating Software<br />Architectures: Methods and Case Studies are complementary. I personally<br />recommend both books and assign equal value to them.an approach to implement evaluations in Chapter 10. <br /> If you're an architect I also recommend augmenting the excellent material in this book  with Design and Use of Software Architectures by Jan Bosch , which gives an alternate  method to ATAM that is more complete in many respects. Even if you espouse Bosch's  approach, however, the approach and techniques given in Evaluating Software Architectures: Methods and Case Studies are complementary. I personally recommend both books and assign equal value to them.	2002-04-12
1581886:US	53037408	R2IBOU08MUXSFZ	0957778317	299139315	Planning Using Primavera Project Planner P3 Ver 3.0	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Fastest way to become productive with P3	This book cuts through the voluminous, daunting documentation that ships with P3 and gets you quickly started in harnessing the power of this full-featured PM application.  If you've used P3 you'll understand the steep learning curve. If you're seeking a book because your company is implementing P3 you'll appreciate the value of this book.<br />The approach taken by the author is to step you through the common tasks of planning, scheduling and controlling a project, using an example project.  The value of this approach is you focus on the important features and functions, instead of getting lost in the myriad of other features that you may or may not use.  The book is designed to get you started with P3, not make you a P3 wizard, so this approach boils it down to the essentials.  What makes the book effective is the copious use of screen shots from the program, which serve as landmarks, and the way the author conversationally discusses the finer points of project management in general while teaching you how to use P3.  For example, in Chapter 9 where you'll be walked through adding logic to activities, you'll not only be shown how to perform this task, but given reasons why you should use one approach from among four possibilities to establish relationships.  In this example the choices are start-to-start, finish-to-start, start-to-finish and finish-to-finish.  This is but one example in which project management techniques are imparted with P3-specific procedures, and it adds value to the book.<br />What I most like about this book is the way the author sticks to the basics, uses exercises called workshops, and resists the urge to get fancy and confuse the reader.  In this respect, what he wisely leaves out of the book is as important as what is included.  The tutorial approach makes this book ideal as a personal learning tool, and the structure and use of workshops makes this book useful as a training guide for companies that intend to conduct in-house training.  Another point is the project management techniques that the authors shares are consistent with both the PMI PMBOK and the UK PRINCE2 methodologies, further adding to the book's value.  If you are using P3 this book is the quickest way to become productive.nother point is the project management techniques that the authors shares are consistent with both the PMI PMBOK and the UK PRINCE2 methodologies, further adding to the book's value.  If you are using P3 this book is the quickest way to become productive.	2002-04-12
1583053:US	53037408	R1IZ0PMFW89QSF	0201776413	202073558	XML,  Web Services, and the Data Revolution	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Refreshingly unbiased and gives complete picture	In many respects this book extends David Linthicum's B2B Application Integration by focusing solely on the data aspects, and explaining the web services approach that has matured after Mr. Linthicum's book was published.<br />This book defines the tools, cuts through the hype and sorts out the pieces needed to design and deploy enterprise-wide solutions. What makes it particularly valuable is that it doesn't side with the two major factions espousing web services - the Microsoft .NET and Sun-sponsored J2EE approaches are presented without bias (refreshing in itself considering the hype and industry posturing).  The same objective treatment of approaches by IBM, BEA, HP Oracle is given, which ensures that you have ample insights into the available approaches to developing web services. Of course, SOAP, the XML-family of protocols, and UDDI are also covered in depth using clear writing and excellent illustrations.<br />What I particularly like about this book are:<br /> - the way Chapter 1, Extending the Enterprise, presents a coherent picture of the complexities of web services and enterprise integration.  This is done in less than 30 pages and packs an amazing amount of information into those pages.<br />- Chapters 3 (XML in Practice), 4 (SOAP) and 5 (Web Services) drill down into the guts and sort out the complexities - especially the discussion of web services, which doesn't [yet] seem to have a standard definition.<br />- Chapter 7's discussion of XML security, which is a nice and needed touch that rounds out the information provided in the book.<br />You won't find specific development information in this book, and that makes it more valuable in my opinion.  If that is what you're seeking there are other books that address that topic.  I do believe that Linthicum's B2B Application Integration and William L. Oellermann's Architecting Web Services will complement this book - Linthicum's for the big picture (especially for legacy system integration) and Oellermann's for the process-oriented approach. I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is involved in architecture, specifications or development.r the process-oriented approach. I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is involved in architecture, specifications or development.	2002-04-11
1583132:US	53037408	R2MWXZLJVFTDYD	0201746131	928809642	Know Your Enemy: Revealing the Security Tools, Tactics, and Motives of the Blackhat Community	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sophisticated methods and countermeasures	The authors extensively document their honeypot project, which was designed to deflect attackers away from real systems and data assets by using decoys. The project evolved into something much more, which is chronicled in the book.<br /><br />The first part of the book deals with technical issues and how and why the project was initiated. As the chronicle of the project proceeds the authors begin adding a new dimension to information security: psychological profiling. This is where the book becomes fascinating, and where reading the book becomes tedious.<br /><br />The fascination stems from the methods used to identify, classify and profile their attackers. The tedium in reading the book is that you have to carefully read through logs of chats (Chapter 11, In their Own Words). This is not the stuff of casual reading - but is worth the time, effort and pain it takes to wade through this chapter.<br /><br />Part of the tedium, aside from having to read raw (but annotated) logs is that profiling attackers requires an understanding of cultural issues, psychological motivations and risks associated with each attacker profile.<br /><br />The accompanying CD ROM contains tools and supporting material for each of the chapters. The tools are the ones the project uses in building, maintaining, and using a Honeynet environment, and includes source code, precompiled binaries, and documentation. The supporting material consists of source code, network captures, and other information related to specific chapters.<br /><br />The sophisticated profiling methods described his book are more suited for large corporations, organizations that support unpopular social causes (commercial and non-commercial) and targets of information warfare attacks. I personally believe that the book adds a new dimension to IT security, making it an important contribution to the security body of knowledge.	2002-04-11
1585571:US	53037408	R1LXF2WKF8NFJ2	020172152X	696822688	Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right Way	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Exposes top problems and gives a framework for closing them	What makes this book so important is that the authors provide an analysis of the major problems with all software, and give a collection of techniques with which to address the recurring problems, such as buffer overflows, access control exposures, randomness flaws and other security-related defects.  They do not attempt to provide specific solutions. Instead they raise an awareness of the common problems, discuss the underlying causes, and give a framework with which developers can use as the basis for developing secure software.<br />Key points of this book that I found especially useful include:<br />(1) Even treatment of commercial and open source software.  I found this refreshing because there are two camps, Microsoft developers and open source advocates, each of which criticize the other.  Yes, Microsoft has a bad reputation for security, but the open source faction has its own challenges, and the authors show the strengths and weaknesses of each in an objective manner.<br />(2)Surprises, such as documented cases of peer reviews that failed.  I am an advocate of this technique, yet a case where a flawed, two-line piece of code that was extensively reviewed by literally thousands of reviewers and readers of a technical publication slipped by without notice for a long time.<br />(3) The ten guiding principles for software security encapsulate the essence of building secure software.  This list and the discussion of each principle should be required reading for every architect, developed and QA engineer.Chapter 1 (Introduction to Software Security) and Chapter 6 (Auditing Software) give a framework for security and a methodical approach to quality assurance.  These, in my opinion, are the heart of the book.<br />In addition to software security from a developer's point of view, this book also addresses other areas that need to be closely examined in order to achieve a solid security posture.  In particular I liked Chapter 14, which covers database security, especially the treatment of statistical attacks. If you're a DBA this alone will make the book worth buying because despite the most careful design of views and access controls you may still be vulnerable in surprising ways.  The chapters on Client-side security and firewall issues are also filled with excellent information, as is Appendix A (Cryptography Basics).<br />The authors have imparted the sum of their extensive experience in this book.  It's up to you to take that experience and apply it.  The book's accompanying website adds further value.  I also recommend Writing Secure Code by Michael Howard and David Leblanc, which was written after this book, and complements it well.  Both books are much-needed additions to the body of knowledge for developing secure software.the treatment of statistical attacks. If you're a DBA this alone will make the book worth buying because despite the most careful design of views and access controls you may still be vulnerable in surprising ways.  The chapters on Client-side security and firewall issues are also filled with excellent information, as is Appendix A (Cryptography Basics).<br />The authors have imparted the sum of their extensive experience in this book.  It's up to you to take that experience and apply it.  The book's accompanying website adds further value.  I also recommend Writing Secure Code by Michael Howard and David Leblanc, which was written after this book, and complements it well.  Both books are much-needed additions to the body of knowledge for developing secure software.	2002-04-10
1592862:US	53037408	RSBDBSPB5PDQY	0201729563	357492669	Building Scalable and High-Performance Java Web Applications Using J2EE Technology	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Depth and architecture clearly presented	There are few authors who can clearly impart the complexities of attaining scalability and performance as design and construction goals. Greg Barish is among the anointed few. He achieves this with conversational prose--as though he were mentoring you--and examples that reinforce each concept as it's presented.<br />If you work in multiple development environments this book is doubly valuable because it's divided almost equally between generic concepts and techniques, and J2EE-specific advice. While the performance and scalability techniques presented in this book don't approach those embodied in books by Daniel A. Menasce and Virgilio A. F. Almeida, or Raj Jain, they are more than sufficient for software engineers and architects.  Therein lies the value of this book - it sidesteps the queuing theory, probability and regression analysis and presents scalability in down-to-earth terms, using relatively simple math.  This realistic, practical approach ensures that the design and development team will actually use the information in this book. Yes, the more formal approaches are better - they are just ignored, and the lite techniques in this book are far better than nothing, and will inspire developers to dig deeper after they've seen the results.<br />What I like about this book: (1) each chapter builds upon the preceding one, (2) all of the major aspects of web services development are addressed with a focus on scalability and performance in every chapter, (3) special skills, such as database connectivity, and the building blocks, such as XML and SOAP, are covered, and (4) while the book seems simple it delves into nuances of J2EE with respect to scalability and performance.  The 'simplicity' is an illusion that comes from the author's ability to write well.<br />The value of this book is that it does make scalability and performance techniques accessible to most developers, even those who are math-challenged (and there are quite a few of them out there).  I read it twice - once for the subject matter and the second pass to dissect the way the book was written.  I gained much from both passes.t twice - once for the subject matter and the second pass to dissect the way the book was written.  I gained much from both passes.	2002-04-04
1594131:US	53037408	R2UF18BNRWR0OB	9627762695	846120755	The Mobile Internet: How Japan Dialled up and the West Disconnected	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Deep insights into marketing in- and outside of mobile I-net	On one level this book is an examination of how mobile internet services were successfully developed and deployed in Japan.  At this level the author goes into how the right mix of attractive services were developed, customers identified and then successfully marketed. The author provides ample supporting data and insightful analysis.  He also demonstrates a thorough understanding of the key players who brought the success about, and their tactics.  In this respect this book is a blueprint for American, European and Middle Eastern providers. After carefully reading the book for this level of knowledge I was surprised at how small the role of culture; instead the demographics and data indicate that success depends on understanding a generation (age group) that shares common characteristics regardless of nationality or cultural bias.<br />There is a second level to this book and one that I hope readers don't miss:  the concept of primary and secondary feedback loops in an ecology-based model that technologies, demographics, content/information, business models and delivery.  This model would serve any industry segment, and it is one of the most elegant approaches to market analysis and strategy to which I've been exposed.<br />If you're in the telecom provider industry this book is, without a doubt, a treasure for anyone involved in marketing and strategic planning.  Not only does it describe in detail what NTT DoCoMo did right, leading to its success as a powerhouse mobile internet service provider, but it also highlights mistakes made along the way and some of the challenges that they are now facing (and some that they will have to face).  The value of this is you learn from the experience of others.<br />If you're in another industry there is still much this book has to offer: effective techniques, a case study in innovative marketing, and a reminder that identifying target customers and understanding their usage and buying habits are keys to success.<br />The copious data, cited sources and each chapter's summary make this a complete and thorough work.  If you're looking for technology-related information this is not the book.  If you're looking for innovation in marketing this book is essential.copious data, cited sources and each chapter's summary make this a complete and thorough work.  If you're looking for technology-related information this is not the book.  If you're looking for innovation in marketing this book is essential.	2002-04-04
1605209:US	53037408	RXVYX3PO9UJOI	0201734966	663392939	Understanding Open Source Software Development	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Balanced and business-focused	This may be the perfect book about open source software because it places open source within the context of business value and does not promote it as the great panacea that characterize the message of far too many books on the subject.<br />What I like is that, after providing an overview of open source, its history and proponents, the authors discuss how to analyze open source software within two major frameworks:  the Zachman framework that was developed in 1987 and is popular today as an enterprise-wide information systems paradigm, and a newer framework called CATWOE. I'm new to the latter, but it is solid and is independent of open source.  CATWOE stands for Clients, Actors, Transformations, World View, Owners and Environment.<br />The remainder of the book discusses aspects of open source as they relate to the CATWOE framework, which ensures that fair and complete treatments of the business and technical issues are given.  I would have liked a more in-depth discussion of the legal issues and business risks that are associated with the GPL; however, that information is in a state of flux and is probably best gotten from daily news sources.<br />If you want to understand open source software development, especially as it relates to business value, this book is the one I recommend.  The authors also have an associated web site (the URL is provided in the book).	2002-03-26
1605404:US	53037408	R2TEN7WEHBJIY9	0130279579	832013741	Technology Strategies (Harris Kern's Enterprise Computing Institute)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Refreshing change from the quantitative and methodological	Having read every book in the Enterprise Computing Series I was expecting something quite different. Where all of the other books in the series follow a People-Process-Technology structure, and are filled with methods and techniques, this departs from that formula and does so in a refreshingly fashion.<br /><br />The author starts with the history of technology, listing many ancient innovations that are still in use today - plow, compass, and the like. He builds from there in the same manner that James Burke's \\"Connections\\" program that aired on The Learning Channel shows how ancient discoveries evolve into modern technologies. In fact, James Burke is cited, as are philosophers, historians, and contemporary technologists and business figures. This makes for interesting reading that is presented in lucid, thought-provoking prose.<br /><br />Throughout the book the author never loses an opportunity to connect the past with the present. He also stays focused on business issues and reinforces key ideas with case studies and his own analysis. The practical aspects of this book are given in Chapters 3, 8 and 9, wherein advice and methods for managing technological change, developing business strategies and integrating technology are discussed in detail. These more practical chapters balance the 'softer' parts of the book and should satisfy both the hard core types who want methods, and the big picture types who want to see the whole fabric of technology. I usually fall into the former category, but found the book so thought provoking and interesting that my initial disappointment when I first thumbed through this book turned into delight as I read it.<br /><br />If you want a book that provides quantitative methods, and leads to step-by-step through the process of technology management this is not it. However, after you get your fill of processes, procedures and number crunching you will benefit from the deep thoughts and holistic views that are so well presented here.	2002-03-26
1605739:US	53037408	R18T26EYY0OPEE	0471172499	256358839	Measuring the Impact of Your Web Site	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding Primer for Measurement and excellent approach	Not only does this book expose the key metrics, but it also provides a methodology for gathering and analyzing the metrics.<br />Chapter 1, Planning and Measurement Essentials, is uniformly excellent and lays the groundwork for what follows. I also liked Chapter 3, Measurement strategies and Sources, because the information has much wider application than web site analysis.  The overall methodology steps you through gathering raw measures, consolidating them, developing assumptions and approximations, then performing impact measurements.<br />This book will not only give you insights into the business and what is important, but will also give you a methodology that can be employed for technical analysis within the IT domain.  For example, these business techniques are also the basis for measuring IT effectiveness, service level attainment and other performance areas.  Of course the metrics for IT are going to be different than the business metrics given in the book.<br />If you're in marketing or competitive intelligence you'll find this book to be an asset for the ideas and methods.  I personally learned many subtle facts and techniques about measurement and highly recommend this book to anyone who is tasked with impact analysis, regardless of whether it is for web site effectiveness or other technical or business areas.	2002-03-25
1606513:US	53037408	R1NBYG5JYZ9TK3	0130281867	387336701	Internet Commerce Metrics and Models in the New Era of Accountability	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful blend of business and technical information	This book is an encyclopedia of metrics that business process owners care about, and a compendium of advice for measuring them. Don't let the title fool you - this book is as applicable to bricks and mortar businesses as it is to e-commerce sites. I can assure you that reading this book will give you insights into the minds of the business process owners for whom you exist to serve, and will impart a good appreciation of business imperatives.<br />What I like about this book, aside from what I've said above, is the way the authors analyze the technical and business factors.  They start in Chapter 2 with a five-layer e-commerce model, then proceed in subsequent chapters to thoroughly dissect the model and how it applies to business types.  This book only addresses technology as it relates to business issues.  Chapter 3 illustrates this approach wherein the internet platform is placed into the context of cost/benefit issues.  As such you'll get the technical details necessary to understand e-commerce infrastructure, but you'll never lose sight of the business imperatives.  This is a refreshing approach, in my opinion, and the rest of the book is consistent with this.<br />Specific chapters that I particularly like include: (Ch 8) Customer Acquisition models, and (Ch 9) Application of Business models. These two chapters capture the essence of e-commerce. Another valuable part of the book is the appendix, which provides in tabular format real companies, their major and minor categories and revenue models.  This is excellent research material that has been pre-compiled and will save you untold hours of research and classification as you benchmark your model against competitors and other business models.	2002-03-25
1608029:US	53037408	R198HP44VF92FY	0201743914	109415520	Business Rules and Information Systems: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Best introductory text on the subject	This book introduces the concept and mechanics of business rules, and is essential reading for anyone involved in eliciting and writing requirements, or developing specifications.  I want to disclose that I am a staunch advocate of business rules, so take this into consideration as you read this review.<br />This is one of two books on the subject.  The other book, Business Rules Applied by Barbara von Halle, is more suitable for an experienced practitioner or someone responsible for implementing business rules as an enterprise methodology.  This book, however, focuses on the basics and addresses topics, such as object orientation and development, that are not found in von Halle's book.  Both books are valuable, but to different audiences.<br />What I like most about this book is that it painstakingly describes how to define business rules, and how to clearly and unambiguously describe them. Moreover, the approach given in this book employs the object constraint language, which is a part of the unified modeling language (UML) version 1.1.  As such it shows how to integrate business rules into use cases, and to develop artifacts that align to organizations that are using UML or the Rational Unified Process, as well as object-oriented frameworks in general.<br />My favorite chapters were 3, which is about defining business rules (getting them right) and 5, which covers controlling business rule quality.  To me these are the keys to understanding and using business rules, and both chapters were clear and filled with examples. I also liked the appendix, which covered logic - another essential knowledge factor for analysts who are involved in requirements and specifications.<br />If you're new to business rules or are exploring them, start here.  Even though the von Halle book is better suited to experienced practitioners, I would still recommend this book to members of that audience who are working in object-oriented environments or are using UML.  If you are also using UML, do consider also reading Alistair Cockburn's excellent book titled Writing Effective Use Cases because that book is completely consistent with the material in this one.UML, do consider also reading Alistair Cockburn's excellent book titled Writing Effective Use Cases because that book is completely consistent with the material in this one.	2002-03-23
1608280:US	53037408	R1Z32ABSJ9EUFU	0130912972	772436915	Quality Software Project Management, Two Volume Set	Books	5	71	74	N	N	Best from among 2 dozen I've read on the subject	This is, without a doubt, the most comprehensive book available on software project management. I don't make this statement lightly - I have over two dozen books on the subject, and have reviewed a significant portion of them on this site.  It isn't the fact that the book consists of 33 chapters and 7 appendices and consumes nearly 1700 pages that makes it comprehensive. What distinguishes this book from the rest are:<br />(1) A process-oriented approach that is completely consistent with the PMI PMBOK, fully supports requirements for the higher levels of the capability maturity model, and can be adapted to virtually any life cycle model.<br />(2) It completely covers the important elements of planning, scheduling and control, including work breakdown structure development, associating tasks and deliverables, estimating (the focus is on the constructive cost model), advanced scheduling techniques (including critical chain scheduling that has emerged from the theory of constraints body of knowledge), and earned value project management.<br />(3) Ties software engineering, system engineering, reliability, SQA and software configuration management to the project process.  Many books briefly address these, while this book addresses the requirements, issues and techniques head-on.<br />(4) Business plan development, requirements analysis, project deliverables and other artifacts are thoroughly covered.<br />(5) The web site that augments this book has errata, templates and checklists (in HTML format), links and other material that supports using the book as a course text.<br />There are so many things I like about this book, but the size and depth of content makes it nearly overwhelming.  My favorite chapters are 21-Metrics, 26-Continuous Improvement, 28-Post Performance Analysis and 32-Legal Issues.  However, these reflect my personal interests. The book is, in my opinion, uniformly excellent.  The only flaw I found was the scant attention given to releasing an application or system into production, and no mention of how to tie together issue management to the enhancement and maintenance cycle that initiates once an application is in production.  However, to be fair, this book is focused on project management and not software engineering.  An outstanding companion to this book would be Successful Software Development by Scott E. Donaldson, Stanley G. Siegel, which provides the same in-depth treatment of software engineering as this book does for project management.tem into production, and no mention of how to tie together issue management to the enhancement and maintenance cycle that initiates once an application is in production.  However, to be fair, this book is focused on project management and not software engineering.  An outstanding companion to this book would be Successful Software Development by Scott E. Donaldson, Stanley G. Siegel, which provides the same in-depth treatment of software engineering as this book does for project management.	2002-03-23
1608423:US	53037408	R22RDOD14IGFCN	1878289446	729918803	Information Systems Success Measurement (Series in Information Technology Management)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Reflects best practices in a narrow discipline	The nine chapters in this book are essays that are written by experts in their fields of expertise, with contributions by Garrity and Sanders who are credited on the cover.<br />Each of the chapters can stand alone, although they are presented in a sequence that build upon the preceding one.  Each chapter ends with endnotes and references.  Chapter 1 introduces information systems success measurement as a discipline.  It does so in clear terms and is consistent with each of the subsequent chapters.  Chapter 2, Dimensions of IS success, is especially strong in that it introduces models, including DeLone and MacLean's model for IS success, and variations that show different viewpoints.  It decomposes the dimensions into domains,provides questionnaires, and ends with an appendix that gives example ratings and measurements.  This chapter shows how to quantify factors and portray success in hard numbers.<br />Chapter 3 extends the previous one by providing a 3-D model approach to measurement.  Because I work in multi-cultural and multi-national environments I especially liked chapter 4's focus on cross-cultural environments.  In addition, the legal aspects of measurement that is chapter 5's topic is essential reading.  Regardless of your specific interests do take the time to read this short chapter because it applies to anyone in IS/IT.  One glaring omission here is UCITA (Uniform Computer Information Transaction Act), which is an optional modification, on a state-by-state basis, to the Uniform Commercial Code (which is covered).<br />The remaining chapters address (Ch 6) Comprehensive Model for Assessing Quality and Productivity, (Ch 7) Development of Process and Outcome User Satisfaction, (Ch 8) Interpretive Approach to IS Success Measurement, and (Ch 9) Five Secrets to Systems Success.  Each contained one or more interesting concepts and/or sparked ideas.  Because much of my work as an IT consultant involves process improvement strategies and service level management I found this book to be an invaluable source of information.  Each of the chapters contains valuable information, insights and ideas that will be useful to anyone in IT management or service delivery roles.nt I found this book to be an invaluable source of information.  Each of the chapters contains valuable information, insights and ideas that will be useful to anyone in IT management or service delivery roles.	2002-03-23
1608456:US	53037408	R2KHOCSTHI78XD	0471412937	776595335	Business Rules Applied: Building Better Systems Using the Business Rules Approach	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	For experienced practitioners and implementors	This is one of two books currently in print about business rules, and each book addresses the subject from a different perspective.  The other book, Business Rules and Information Systems by Tony Morgan, is a better introduction because it assumes less technical knowledge.  This book, however, has unique strengths that the other book doesn't, including:<br />(1) A comprehensive approach to preparing for and implementing business rules as an enterprise-wide discipline. It accomplishes this by providing a life cycle approach to business rules development through ongoing management.<br />(2) The implementation approach is provided as a work breakdown structure, which significantly reduces your planning for an enterprise-wide initiative (or a pilot initiative based on a single project).<br />(3) There is an accompanying web site that provides additional papers, case studies and other materials that enhance the value of the book.<br /><br />The introduction to business rules and concepts is perhaps too verbose, but is thorough.  What this part of the book lacks in sparkling prose it more than compensates in detail.  I particularly liked the chapter devoted to business rules methodology, which takes the concepts and applies them in a structured way.  Another strong point is that the book provides many examples to reinforce points under discussion, and summarizes key information in easy-to-read tables.  The illustrations that are sprinkled throughout the book also add clarity.<br />If you're new to business rules the best book, in my opinion, is Morgan's Business Rules and Information Systems. However, after reading that book you'll also want this one if you are serious about implementing business rules because of the way Ms. von Halle has structured the flow and content.  Also, the author is one of the pioneers in the business rules community, which adds considerable authority and credibility to her approach.	2002-03-23
1608687:US	53037408	R13LZ7F5CIK9MQ	0130912948	100338027	Rapid Testing	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Viable process that does not compromise quality	Rapid Testing<br />This book provides a testing process and associated techniques that adds the agility required to meet fast-paced business requirements without sacrificing the due diligence or controls necessary to manage risk.<br />There is nothing especially new about the processes or techniques that the author proposes and explains; however, the way the processes are designed recasts tried and true methods into a streamlined process. Indeed, if the rapid testing process is correctly implemented it's possible to reduce testing cycle time while *improving* quality. I like the way the author begins by clearly defining terms.  I know from experience that &quot;acceptance test&quot; means one thing in one organization, and something quite different in another. What I especially like, though, is the clear process itself, which consists of four major elements, each of which is thoroughly addressed in the book: (1) people, (2) integrated test process, (3) static testing and (4) dynamic testing.<br />Another key strength of this book is the way the traditional (and much maligned) waterfall model is transformed into a hybrid called a parallel waterfall. This hybrid model is the best of the waterfall and V model, and like the V model, it tightly integrates testing and development.  The author's approach to activity-input-output in the discussion of life cycle models is close to the entry-task-validation-exit process model, and the structure that is presented allows you to develop a process chain that produces predictable and repeatable results. This approach is partially why the testing process can be rapid without compromising quality or ignoring risks.<br />In Part II the book provides tips and techniques.  Again, there is nothing especially new, but all of the key techniques are covered, including requirements and analysis, test planning, executing and reporting.  Black box testing is covered well, as are an array of dynamic testing techniques (equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis, memory leak testing, use case testing and performance tests.)  If you're in a Microsoft-centric environment you'll appreciate the material on memory leak testing, and if you are in a development environment that employs UML or the Rational Unified Process the techniques for use case testing will prove helpful.<br />Part III provides detailed examples that are based on material presented in Part II.  Overall this book lives up to its title by providing a 'safe' and effective process for rapid testing., boundary value analysis, memory leak testing, use case testing and performance tests.)  If you're in a Microsoft-centric environment you'll appreciate the material on memory leak testing, and if you are in a development environment that employs UML or the Rational Unified Process the techniques for use case testing will prove helpful.<br />Part III provides detailed examples that are based on material presented in Part II.  Overall this book lives up to its title by providing a 'safe' and effective process for rapid testing.	2002-03-23
1610891:US	53037408	R3RZ1JH86CIEUP	0201715163	216811491	Practical Software Measurement: Objective Information for Decision Makers	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Off-the-shelf processes for CMMM level 3 and above orgs	There is a wealth of material available from the PSM site, including the PSM Insight application and PSM Guidebook.  However this book is not redundant because it is structured as a clearly written introduction to practical software measurement, that includes excellent guidance for implementing it into your organization.  In addition, the 304 pages that comprise this book manages to convey the information contained in the existing PSM documentation, and does so much more succinctly.<br />I found the most valuable parts of this book to be the clearly described measurement model, and the way the authors distinguish between data that is useful to projects and organizational data collection and analysis. This material places PSM in context and is a sound starting point for an organizational SQA initiative.<br />The case studies reinforces the mechanics of PSM, and also contain advice and pointers for implementing enterprise-wide measurement.  Although I've been following the PSM initiative almost since its inception and have read all of the copious materials available, I still gained much from this book.  If you're establishing an SQA function or striving for CMM level 4 or above you'll find this book invaluable.  The URLs provided will lead to even more material, including a free Windows-based software tool that fully supports the practical software measurement process.	2002-03-21
1614921:US	53037408	R3L6DVFRXZYC4J	013087678X	417682520	IT Systems Management: Designing, Implementing, and Managing World-Class Infrastructures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Complete coverage of critical processes	This book provides sorely needed guidance for developing and implementing system management processes that will assure reliability, availability and support.  The topics that this book addresses that are not found in any other I've read include:<br />* Production acceptance criteria - this topic covers the critical boundary between development or projects, and operations. The value of employing the book's approach to production acceptance is that applications and systems will be brought into production in a carefully controlled manner that ensures all operations is fully prepared to provide the level of support required by the business.<br />* Acknowledgement of the importance of facilities management, which is almost always overlooked until problems arise.<br />* One of the most comprehensive and well thought out collections of checklists I've ever encountered.  The checklists provided in the book cover every aspect of systems management, ranging from staffing profiles, key issues in infrastructure support processes, to capacity planning. The checklists alone are worth many times the price of the book.<br />* Linking change control (a rare topic itself) to configuration management.  I specialize in these two areas and can attest that the author's treatment is accurate and reflect best practices.<br />* Special considerations for web-enabled environments.  Finally we have material that updates traditional management and support processes to reflect challenges of web-based computing.  The tried and true methods many of us learned from mainframe environments impeded the meeting of business goals in web-based environments.  This book gives advice that is useful and provides a foundation for evolving processes to meet these unique challenges.<br />I also like the way each topic is explored by starting simple and expanding into details that are examined for strengths and weaknesses.  The net result is an understanding of all factors and issues, including many subtle ones that would have required iterations of trial and error to get right.  Most importantly the author stayed focused on processes and best practices, leaving system management products to authors of books for a much narrower audience. This, in my opinion, greatly increases the value of the book and makes it applicable to anyone who is part of the system management or service delivery process.  My only complaint, and it is minor, is the lack of a web site or accompanying CD ROM with the invaluable checklists and tools in electronic format.would have required iterations of trial and error to get right.  Most importantly the author stayed focused on processes and best practices, leaving system management products to authors of books for a much narrower audience. This, in my opinion, greatly increases the value of the book and makes it applicable to anyone who is part of the system management or service delivery process.  My only complaint, and it is minor, is the lack of a web site or accompanying CD ROM with the invaluable checklists and tools in electronic format.	2002-03-18
1647232:US	53037408	R2PO7DQI6Z9W3A	0471085782	687916034	Strategies for Web Hosting and Managed Services	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Only customer-centric guide I've found	This book's stated goal is to explain how to select a web-hosting service or MSP and how to manage that relationship once your site is up and running. It meets that goal in every respect by providing the customer side of the equation with a wealth of factors to consider, and a clear explanation of the significance of those factors.<br />Although the book has five parts, it can be divided into two sections that will serve two different audiences.  The first section, comprised of Parts I through III, is focused on vendor selection, the hosting strategy itself (shared or dedicated servers, colocation or managed service providers), contracts, risk management, service level agreements and traffic forecasting. This is the heart of the book, and the depth of Mr. Kaye's knowledge and experience is nothing short of amazing.  If you pay close attention to his advice and the pitfalls he points out, particularly in The Dark Side of Outsourcing and Service Level Agreements, you will be well armed to make informed decisions that will almost certainly avert the plethora of potential disasters inherent in web hosting and managed services outsourcing.<br />The chapter on service level agreements is essential reading.  This is one of my areas of specialty and I came away with insights I hadn't thought of.  I especially liked his treatment of traffic models, which underscores why any web hosting initiative (in-house or outsourced) needs to be a joint effort by business and IT.  The spreadsheets used in the case study are available for download from the author's site that supports the book.<br />Technical issues are covered in the second section of the book.  Topics include architectures, caching and content delivery (an area in which the author is a world-class expert), and details about connectivity, storage, back-up and recovery and security.  This part of the book is more slanted towards IT than the business reader.  However, I recommend that the chapter on security be read by all because it touches upon issues of which both the business and technical reader needs to be aware.  The last part of the book covers tools.  Again, this material is for technical readers, although I thought the chapter on monitoring would also be of interest to the business members of the book's audience.<br />What sets this book apart is that it's the only one I've found that focuses on the topic from a customer's perspective.  Moreover, there is no other book that covers the rocky landscape of outsourcing, vendor selection and management, and contract service level management. If you're considering web hosting or managed services then you need this book.because it touches upon issues of which both the business and technical reader needs to be aware.  The last part of the book covers tools.  Again, this material is for technical readers, although I thought the chapter on monitoring would also be of interest to the business members of the book's audience.<br />What sets this book apart is that it's the only one I've found that focuses on the topic from a customer's perspective.  Moreover, there is no other book that covers the rocky landscape of outsourcing, vendor selection and management, and contract service level management. If you're considering web hosting or managed services then you need this book.	2002-02-20
1647775:US	53037408	R3QPAWA97B0K76	1563270501	217897243	Software Excellence: A Total Quality Management Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding reference - comprehensive and complete	I've had this book since 1997 and find myself referring to it often.  It can be used as a clear explanation of software quality control and software quality assurance for professionals entering the field, as well as an off-the-shelf quality manual.<br />The reason I find it so useful is that it also serves as an encyclopedia of software quality that covers every facet ranging from methods to software maintenance. I find myself constantly referring to Chapter 13, Methods for Quantitative Measurement and Evaluation of Quality, which is complete and filled with formulae. In that respect, the material in this book will fit nicely into an organization that uses SPICE, ISO 9000-3, or Bootstrap as a quality framework.  Moreover, if you're in a CMM level 3 or above organization you'll find the quantitative methods described in this book useful, particularly at levels 4 and 5.<br />My favorite chapters were 11, Quality Function Deployment for Software, and 12, Examples of Quality Measurement Systems.  Both of these chapters went into great detail and both provided information and insights that have deeply influenced my approach to quality and metrics.Chapter 14, Production Planning for Software Products was another excellent source of information because this is the bridge between development and operations, and the quality approach in this chapter is the best I've encountered.<br />If you're an SQA practitioner, software testing professional or member of a software engineering process organization or team this book should be on your shelf.  It has served me well in one consulting engagement and project after another and is possible one of the best books in which a serious practitioner should invest.	2002-02-20
1647861:US	53037408	R31L0K95F22ZKP	1567260993	111937869	Federal Contracting Made Easy	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Clear roadmap out of the quagmire	This book is not only an essential guide for small and medium businesses seeking federal contracts, but also serves as an excellent resource for companies that bid for commercial contracts.<br />The five parts to this book form a clear roadmap to doing Federal Government business.  Part I gives the big picture and rules of the game.  These rules cover the sources of contract terms and conditions that you are going to see in any federal contract, including applicable laws with which you need to comply and the role of agencies such as the Defense Contract Auditing Agency.  If you've never engaged in a federal contract these rules will determine whether you should even be in the game.<br />Part II describes special programs and opportunities available to certain businesses, subcontracting (especially useful if your business model is to team with prime contractors), and Federal Supply/GSA opportunities for companies selling finished products. Part III describes marketing strategies for federal business.  This area is vastly different from marketing to commercial entities, but is similar in many respects for going after business at the state and county government level.  This information is also useful when you're marketing to large companies that do government contracting, such as aerospace.  Their procurement policies and processes will probably mirror those of the Federal Government.<br />Although Part IV is about government procurement and acquisition procedures, most large companies have similar procedures, so this part of the book is useful for both government and commercial contracting.  Part V is my favorite because it explains in great detail each contract type (fixed price, cost reimbursement and other types and variations).  This information is applicable to both government and commercial business and the in-depth treatment that the author gives is the best I've seen. If you're considering or are engaged in government contracting this book is one that should be close at hand, both as a reference and as training material for your project managers, marketing staff and anyone who is a part of a proposal team.  I also highly recommend augmenting this book with Robert S. Frey's Successful Proposal Strategies for Small Businesses - the combination of both books will give you and your company a significant advantage in winning and keeping federal contracts.e close at hand, both as a reference and as training material for your project managers, marketing staff and anyone who is a part of a proposal team.  I also highly recommend augmenting this book with Robert S. Frey's Successful Proposal Strategies for Small Businesses - the combination of both books will give you and your company a significant advantage in winning and keeping federal contracts.	2002-02-20
1648191:US	53037408	R1BD834SCWKTPJ	1929065000	712964339	Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent introductory book on the subject	This logically-sequenced book is a great starting point for anyone who is faced with the task of writing policies and procedures.  By following the book's clearly described steps you will be led through the development of policies and procedures that will be unambiguous and clearly stated.<br />More importantly, the policies and procedures will incorporate document and revision control elements that are essential to ensuring that the right version is used.  This is especially important for companies that employ quality programs, such as ISO 9000.<br />While some of the writing is stilted, and there are some typos, this book is the best introductory text I've come across (and I have a shelf full of similar books), and one that I recommend without reservation to anyone who is faced with the task of writing policies and procedures. If you're an experienced policies and procedures writer I recommend that you forego this book and get, instead, the author's &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot;.	2002-02-20
1648417:US	53037408	R1WM3501CLRPO2	1929065493	226642846	Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Essential for TQM, ISO 9000 and GMP organizations	Of the three books that the author has published on policies and procedures this one is a masterpiece, and is essential to anyone who works for a company that employ TQM, ISO 9000 or FDA GMP.<br />Where his first book, Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures, provides a roadmap for new policy writers, this book takes the subject to a much higher level by providing a process that encompasses communications and training strategies, a compliance plan, and continuous improvement.  These align seamlessly with ISO 9000, as well as FDA GMPs, and is consistent with the TQM Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle.  In addition, the self-assessment and auditing approaches set forth will assure policies and procedures that reflect a mature organization that is focused on quality and continuous improvement.<br />Among the highlights of the book are the numerous checklists, real-life examples, and an underlying strategy for the development of a comprehensive and complete system of policies and procedures, and a means to assure compliance.  I particularly liked Appendix C, Cost of Quality, and the succinct description of tools and techniques in chapter 11.<br />Another strong point is the complexities of marrying policies and procedures writing with a continuous improvement cycle and auditing are handled in a structured, logical sequence.  This is no small feat for a writer, and it is one of the reasons this book is so valuable. This book sets a standard in the field and is one that I'll always recommend to colleagues and clients.	2002-02-20
1728046:US	53037408	R2XOGWJ35CYMAE	0471135038	530790072	Getting Started in Project Management	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For the occasional PM with ideas for the pro	This book is the best I've come across for the occasional project manager.  It also contains techniques that even a seasoned project manager will find useful.<br />For the occasional project manager the authors provide a straightforward and [in my opinion] foolproof approach to planning and managing projects.  What I like is the emphasis is on taking the time to properly plan the project, and focus on what is going to be delivered and the quality of the deliverables.  While deliverable-based project management is one way to assure a properly planned and managed project too many PMs only discover this basic fact after many projects and not a few disasters.  This book brings this technique to the occasional PM and explains it in a manner that makes sense.  Deliverable quality is addressed by showing the PM how to develop customer acceptance criteria.  This ensures that the stakeholders are getting what they require in a form that can be measured.  For anyone who has developed a solution using sketchy requirements only to have the solution rejected, the customer acceptance criteria alone makes this book worthwhile.<br />For the advanced project manager the method outlined is missing some critical elements, such as earned value project management and a coherent discussion of developing a work breakdown structure.  However, these oversights can be overcome by purchasing a book such as Visualizing Project Management, which covers these basics. What is not found in any other project management book I've read (and there are dozens) is the integrated use of common analysis and decision techniques that is the topic of Chapter 11.  The approach is based on identification, organization, analysis and selection (choices). These are achieved through affinity diagramming (identification and organization), interrelationship diagraph (analysis and choice), a decision matrix (analysis and choice) and multivoting (analysis and choice).  The end result is a thorough analysis and consensus among all project stakeholders for deliverables, acceptance criteria and other aspects of the project.  These tools are extended in Appendix D, which briefly, but succinctly, describes the Martin Tate Problem Solving Methodology.<br />Occasional and advanced project managers alike will benefit from the detailed instructions for managing project changes, the many checklists and tables throughout the book (augmented by well designed illustrations), and the way the authors blend hard project management techniques with people skills.<br />If you find yourself tasked with managing relatively simple projects this should be the first book to which you turn.  If you are a seasoned professional who wants to add some effective skills to your bag of tricks this book will prove to be a wise investment.us among all project stakeholders for deliverables, acceptance criteria and other aspects of the project.  These tools are extended in Appendix D, which briefly, but succinctly, describes the Martin Tate Problem Solving Methodology.  <br />Occasional and advanced project managers alike will benefit from the detailed instructions for managing project changes, the many checklists and tables throughout the book (augmented by well designed illustrations), and the way the authors blend hard project management techniques with people skills.<br />If you find yourself tasked with managing relatively simple projects this should be the first book to which you turn.  If you are a seasoned professional who wants to add some effective skills to your bag of tricks this book will prove to be a wise investment.	2001-12-18
1729188:US	53037408	R32F23G98MN9T2	0471135038	530790072	Getting Started in Project Management	Books	5	25	25	N	N	For the occasional PM with ideas for the pro	This book is the best I've come across for the occasional project manager.  It also contains techniques that even a seasoned project manager will find useful.<br />For the occasional project manager the authors provide a straightforward and [in my opinion] foolproof approach to planning and managing projects.  What I like is the emphasis is on taking the time to properly plan the project, and focus on what is going to be delivered and the quality of the deliverables.  While deliverable-based project management is one way to assure a properly planned and managed project too many PMs only discover this basic fact after many projects and not a few disasters.  This book brings this technique to the occasional PM and explains it in a manner that makes sense.  Deliverable quality is addressed by showing the PM how to develop customer acceptance criteria.  This ensures that the stakeholders are getting what they require in a form that can be measured.  For anyone who has developed a solution using sketchy requirements only to have the solution rejected, the customer acceptance criteria alone makes this book worthwhile.<br />For the advanced project manager the method outlined is missing some critical elements, such as earned value project management and a coherent discussion of developing a work breakdown structure.  However, these oversights can be overcome by purchasing a book such as Visualizing Project Management, which covers these basics. What is not found in any other project management book I've read (and there are dozens) is the integrated use of common analysis and decision techniques that is the topic of Chapter 11.  The approach is based on identification, organization, analysis and selection (choices). These are achieved through affinity diagramming (identification and organization), interrelationship diagraph (analysis and choice), a decision matrix (analysis and choice) and multivoting (analysis and choice).  The end result is a thorough analysis and consensus among all project stakeholders for deliverables, acceptance criteria and other aspects of the project.  These tools are extended in Appendix D, which briefly, but succinctly, describes the Martin Tate Problem Solving Methodology.  <br />Occasional and advanced project managers alike will benefit from the detailed instructions for managing project changes, the many checklists and tables throughout the book (augmented by well designed illustrations), and the way the authors blend hard project management techniques with people skills.<br />If you find yourself tasked with managing relatively simple projects this should be the first book to which you turn.  If you are a seasoned professional who wants to add some effective skills to your bag of tricks this book will prove to be a wise investment.	2001-12-17
1734670:US	53037408	R1A4ZQL8DGUMB6	1893115585	59941958	Architecting Web Services	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Not a How-to-Code Book	The theme of this outstanding book is not coding, although developers will find the contents useful.  The ideal audience includes (1) architects who are seeking a coherent paradigm against which web-based systems can be designed, (2) developers who are seeking an approach to developing reusable code, and (3) 'software factories' and integration companies that develop components for resale of license.<br />Key strengths of this book include: Clearly defined definitions of web services, which set the context of the book, code examples that are provided using Websphere and ASP (the dual examples remove any bias towards any specific vendor, especially since the Websphere examples are generic enough for any shop using Java), all code and accompanying artifacts are provided from the author's web site (ensures ongoing updates, errata and emerging information that was not available when the book was published), and text insets on almost every page that give the author's advice, his experience in a particular topic and clarifications of terms and approaches - these alone make the book a treasure.<br />What I like most about this book is the fact that it is comprehensive in that the services described are the foundation of any well-designed web architecture.  The author does not pretend to have all of the answers or provide solutions, but he does give one of the best frameworks for designing a web architecture based on services that I've encountered.  The framework itself is straightforward:  Objective-> Solution-> Implementation-> Services, with the focus on services. If your interest is component-based software engineering or reuse economics you'll probably appreciate this book's value more than developers and architects whose objective is to design, build and implement a web-based system.<br />If you are working in an environment where you seem to be reinventing the wheel for each project the ideas in this book will give you a clear path for breaking that cycle.  If you are an architect this book will provide you with a clear view of web-based architectures as a collection of services. If, on the other hand, you are a developer looking for completed code or how to do the basics this book will not meet your needs.  I personally think that the author has provided a valuable addition to the growing body of knowledge of web software engineering, and I also applaud his success in tackling the daunting task of clearly articulating a complex topic and providing valuable example from two different development environments.e an architect this book will provide you with a clear view of web-based architectures as a collection of services. If, on the other hand, you are a developer looking for completed code or how to do the basics this book will not meet your needs.  I personally think that the author has provided a valuable addition to the growing body of knowledge of web software engineering, and I also applaud his success in tackling the daunting task of clearly articulating a complex topic and providing valuable example from two different development environments.	2001-12-13
1819529:US	53037408	R1BIDEHBV51ORA	0521787742	10529020	The Road to the Unified Software Development Process (SIGS Reference Library)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	For the RUP diehard or organizational champion	The 31 chapters in this seven-part book are articles that cover the spectrum of the Rational Unified Process (RUP) from history to epilouge.  NOTE: Tthere is a not-so-hidden agenda to &quot;sell the RUP&quot; as the book unfolds. There is nothing particularly evil about that, but you need to know this when making a purchasing decision.<br />Part 1 is a brief three chapter introduction that gives the philosophy behind the RUP.  This is followed by Part 2, which is a brief history, a large commercial success story and the unfolding of a goal (industrial-style development using OO techniques).  There is one recurring feature that I like about this book - each part ends with a brief summary titled, &quot;In Inar's Words&quot;, which provides deeper insights into the true spirit and philosophy of the RUP to augment the more practical information given in each chapter.  Part 3 takes you a bit further into the evolution of the RUP, starting with a chapter titled &quot;The Seeds of a Vision&quot;, and proceeds with a chapter that pleads for a cease fire in the methods war, and finally gets down to business with chapters on BPR with object technology, building components and reuse. Part 3 also makes a case for UML as an object modeling standard.<br />Process and tools are the theme of Part 4, which opens with an article discussing the software engineering process and support environment. This is a lead-in for three articles that cover &quot;Reengineering Your Software Engineering Process&quot;, &quot;Designing a Software Engineering Process&quot;, &quot;Designing an Integrated Software Engineering Process Support Environment&quot; and &quot;Building Your Own Process by Specializing a Process Framework&quot;.  These firmly define the RUP as a framework.<br /><br />Part 5 is titled &quot;Use-Case Engineering&quot; and is comprised of seven articles on use cases. I particularly liked all of the articles in this part.  They cover the basics through advanced techniques.  Regardless of whether you are committed to the RUP it's probably a given that you have or will employ use cases and this section of the book alone is of value to a much wider audience.<br /><br />My favorite part of the book, Part 6, covers architecture and large-scale systems.  I have a professional interest in this topic and the seven articles are uniformly excellent.  Again, even if you are not interested in the RUP, the material here fits within a number of methodologies and frameworks and is essential reading for anyone who is interested in architecture. Of course these articles are biased towards the RUP, and particularly how use cases can be employed in architecture. The strongest article is Chapter 28 titled &quot;The Steps to an Architecture&quot; and is the one from which I I learned a lot.<br />The final part, 7, is almost anti-climatic. there are two chapters titled &quot;Objectory Is the Unified Process&quot; and &quot;The Unified Process Is Iterative&quot;, capped off with the recurring &quot;In Ivar's Words&quot; that ends each part of the book.<br />If you are exploring the RUP, or are seeking a framework of processes for OO development, this book will be interesting. If you are your organization's RUP champion then this is an essential book because it will strengthen your case for the RUP. The articles are short and they cover such a wide number of topics that there is something for everyone. I personally liked the way philosophy and practical aspects of the Unified Process were interwoven. However, some may feel that the book tried too hard to sell the Unified Process.  For the right audience this is a 5-star resource.s.  Regardless of whether you are committed to the RUP it's probably a given that you have or will employ use cases and this section of the book alone is of value to a much wider audience.<BR> <BR>My favorite part of the book, Part 6, covers architecture and large-scale systems.  I have a professional interest in this topic and the seven articles are uniformly excellent.  Again, even if you are not interested in the RUP, the material here fits within a number of methodologies and frameworks and is essential reading for anyone who is interested in architecture. Of course these articles are biased towards the RUP, and particularly how use cases can be employed in architecture. The strongest article is Chapter 28 titled &quot;The Steps to an Architecture&quot; and is the one from which I I learned a lot.<br />The final part, 7, is almost anti-climatic. there are two chapters titled &quot;Objectory Is the Unified Process&quot; and &quot;The Unified Process Is Iterative&quot;, capped off with the recurring &quot;In Ivar's Words&quot; that ends each part of the book.<br />If you are exploring the RUP, or are seeking a framework of processes for OO development, this book will be interesting. If you are your organization's RUP champion then this is an essential book because it will strengthen your case for the RUP. The articles are short and they cover such a wide number of topics that there is something for everyone. I personally liked the way philosophy and practical aspects of the Unified Process were interwoven. However, some may feel that the book tried too hard to sell the Unified Process.  For the right audience this is a 5-star resource.	2001-10-04
1823131:US	53037408	R2FNR4AQCVHFDD	0818685239	214148900	Elements of Software Process Assessment & Improvement (Practitioners)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Essential for SQA and SPI professionals	This 4-part collection of essays is just what the title proclaims: elements of software process assessment and/or improvement.  While the book is organized by subject area (1-common models in use, 2-the business case for SPI, 3-guidance and 4-new developments), the book does purport to be a guide for performing/passing assessments or effecting process improvement.  However, the real value of the essays is the wide range of topics that are addressed.  While you will probably not find all of them useful for a specific model or approach, you will almost certainly find many to be applicable to a strategy for process assessments or improvement.<br />Part 1, Models, covers the CMM, software product procurement risk management, SPICE, Bootstrap, ISO 9001 and the P-CMM. This part ends with a chapter that provide an approach and generic steps and guidelines for software process improvement.<br />Because I have a strong interest in business case development, Part 2 is my favorite section of the book, and one from which all readers will benefit regardless of the model they are currently using or considering.  Chapter titles are: The Economics of Software Process Improvements, The Payoff for Software Process Improvement and Empirical Studies of Software Process Assessment Methods.  This is excellent foundation material for making the business case and/or determining the ROI of a particular model or improvement strategy.<br /><br />Part 3 offers excellent insights into the trials and tribulations of assessments. Chapters here are Essence and Accidents in SEI-Style Assessments (this is by a favorite author, Ken Dymond who has written probably the best book on CMM I've read), Tailoring the CMM for Small Businesses, Small Organizations, and Small Projects (proving that CMM is within the reach of small organizations as well as large ones), Starting the Climb Towards the CMM Level 2 Plateau (that first step is the hardest), The Role of Design Analysis in Process Improvement, Action Planning.  Part 4, New Developments, contains two excellent papers titled Modeling Software Processes Quantitatively and Evaluating the Performance of Process Alternatives, and Metrics and Laws of Software Evolution.<br />Overall, this is an invaluable resource to organizations pursuing software process improvement within the framework of one of the common models, as well as SPI and SQA professionals who want to broaden their knowledge.nning.  Part 4, New Developments, contains two excellent papers titled Modeling Software Processes Quantitatively and Evaluating the Performance of Process Alternatives, and Metrics and Laws of Software Evolution.<br />Overall, this is an invaluable resource to organizations pursuing software process improvement within the framework of one of the common models, as well as SPI and SQA professionals who want to broaden their knowledge.	2001-10-01
1823313:US	53037408	R2ZOPDOTXX5W02	0818673842	755907504	Software Change Impact Analysis	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Collected gems from body of knowledge	This collection of papers on software change impact analysis covers both practice and theory. The book starts with an introduction to change impact analysis.  This intro covers terms, theories and practices that have emerged and are accepted among most researchers and practitioners, and provides a basic discussion of traceability and impact analysis.<br />Chapter 1 is titled Nature of Impact Analysis and contains A Process Model for Software Maintenance, Impact Analysis-Towards A Framework for Comparison, and The Year 2000 Problem: Impact, Strategies, and Tools. Although the last paper is obviously out of date, some of the techniques are worth examining, especially since a good amount of the Y2K problem required impact and risk analysis.<br />State of the Practice is the topic of chapter 2, and contains the following papers: An Analysis of the Requirements Traceability Problem, Software Change Impact Analysis for Design Evolution and Configuration Management Survey.  These three papers are a combination of practice and theory.<br />The material in Chapter 3, Automated Support for Impact Analysis, is spotty.  Some is out of date in my opinion, while other papers are as fresh today as when the book was published.  Papers in this chapter are: The Integrated CASE Manifesto, A Practical Software Maintenance Environment, Intelligent Assistance for Software Development and Maintenance and Maintenance Support for Object-Oriented Programs (the last is excellent!). Chapter 4 contains the most practical material in the collection.  The topic title is Dependency-Analysis Approaches, and the papers are: Using Dependence Analysis to Support the Software Maintenance Process, Interprocedural Slicing Using Dependence Graphs, Data Dependency Graphs for Ada Programs, Data Flow Analysis and its Application to Software Maintenance and Change Impact Identification in Object Oriented Software Maintenance.<br />Papers in Chapter 5 (Traceability Approaches) are also mostly practical, but many are out of date or contain information that was a good idea at the time, but seem quaint by today's standards.  Paper topics are: A Hypertext System to Manage Software Life-Cycle Documents (very much ahead of its time, but woefully out of date now),  A Software Documentation Support Environment-Its Definition, Traceability Based on Design Decisions (this is *must reading* in my opinion) and A Process for Consolidating and Reusing Design Knowledge.  Chapter 6's papers address Impact Representation.  While many were written a decade ago all of them are interesting and include ideas that are as valid today.  Topics are: The Prism Model of Changes, A Unified Interprocedural Program Representation for a Maintenance Environment, A Formal Model of Program Dependencies and Its Implications for Software Testing, Debugging, and Maintenance and A Graph Model for Software Evolution.<br />Chapter 7 is devoted to Impact-Determination Techniques and contains interesting papers that are more theoretical than practical in my opinion. Topics are: An Early Impact Analysis Technique for Software Maintenance, Using Program Slicing in Software Maintenance, Efficient Algorithms for the Instantiated Transitive Closure Queries, and Approximate Reasoning About the Semantic Effects of Program Changes. Chapter 8 is a synopsis of material in the preceding chapters, with and commentary and observations about impact analysis as a discipline.<br />Overall, this book represents a substantial cross section of the body of knowledge devoted to software change impact analysis.  Some strengths include the fact that this collection of papers makes the body of knowledge available in one book, and the focus of the papers on software engineering aspects of change and maintenance, and how to manage impact to complex applications.  A key weakness is that some of the papers are over 10 years old. However, despite the age of some of the papers many are surprisingly applicable to maintenance challenges facedby practitioners today.by practitioners today.	2001-10-01
1823551:US	53037408	R3M7ZMX88UH2LJ	1852332220	174610001	Systems Engineering for Business Process Change: Collected Papers from the EPSRC Research Programme	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Addresses a narrow topic. Worthwhile to right audience	This is a collection of 20 papers that were developed under the auspices of the U.K.'s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).  Each paper is a report that is associated with a specific project, and each project shares two attributes: (1) legacy system focus, and (2) business process evolution, change or adaptation within the legacy environment.<br />If you are dealing (struggling) with adapting legacy systems to realities of changing business processes in your organization one or more of the papers are bound to be applicable. The topics of the twenty papers are:<br />(1) Business Processes, Legacy Systems and a Flexible Future, (2) Modelling the Co-Evolution of Business Processes and IT Systems, Complexity: Partial Support for BPR?, (3) FLEXX: Designing Software for Change through Evolvable Architectures, (4) RIPPLE: Retaining Integrity in Process Products over their Long-Term Evolution, (5) Understanding Change: Using the Patterns Paradigm in the Context of Business Domain Knowledge, (6) Combining Organizational and Technical Change in Finding Solutions to Legacy Systems, (7) Connecting Business Modelling to Requirements Engineering, (8) Interpretivist Modelling for Information System Definition, (9) Enterprise Resource Planning Systems: Impacts and Future Directions, (10) The Implications of Information Technology Infrastructure Capabilities for Business Process Change Success, (11) IT Support for the Very High Value Added Bid Pricing Process, Social Viewpoints on Legacy Systems, (12) Co-Evolution and an Enabling Infrastructure: A Solution to Legacy?, (13) Modelling Legacy Telecommunications: Switching Systems for Interaction Analysis, (14) Reverse Requirements Engineering: The AMBOLS Approach, Reconstruction of Legacy Systems for Evolutionary Change, (15) Handling Legacy IT in Banking by using Object Design Patterns to Separate Business and IT Issues, (16) Legacy System Anti-Patterns and a Pattern-Oriented Migration Response, (17) Assisting Requirements Recovery from Legacy Documents, (18) The Systematic Construction of Information Systems, (19) Its Not Just About Old Software: A Wider View of Legacy Systems, (20) Delivering Business Performance: Opportunities and Challenges for IT.<br />There is a wealth of knowledge, lessons learned and strategies buried between the covers of this book.  Some of the papers are dryly written, but all contain thought-provoking ideas and, in some cases, solutions.  This book is suited more for academics, upper technical management and consultants, and to that audience will prove to be a valuable resource.Requirements Recovery from Legacy Documents, (18) The Systematic Construction of Information Systems, (19) Its Not Just About Old Software: A Wider View of Legacy Systems, (20) Delivering Business Performance: Opportunities and Challenges for IT.<br />There is a wealth of knowledge, lessons learned and strategies buried between the covers of this book.  Some of the papers are dryly written, but all contain thought-provoking ideas and, in some cases, solutions.  This book is suited more for academics, upper technical management and consultants, and to that audience will prove to be a valuable resource.	2001-09-30
1823949:US	53037408	R2UN8A8ZZIXA2U	0201722291	154499379	Performance Solutions: A Practical Guide to Creating Responsive, Scalable Software	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Must reading for OO architects	This book is one-of-a-kind in that it addresses head on the thorny problems associated with object-oriented performance and scalability.  The book is divided into seven parts, which include 16 chapters and two appendices.<br />Part I introduces software performance and the authors' software performance engineering (SPE) methodology.  Although the book continues to drill down deeper into SPE and associated factors in subsequent chapters, this part of the book is my favorite.  What makes it my favorite is the context in which the authors cast performance as a function of resource requirements (workload) and configuration (capacity).  Although this is not a new concept, the ensuing discussion leading to SPE modeling strategies and models and the 9-step SPE process exposes the challenges and provides a sense that OO performance can be managed through careful systems analysis, modeling and design early in the life cycle.  I also like the way SPE is aligned to the &quot;Unified Software Process&quot;, which is the RUP thinly disguised. The chapter that discusses this has some realm gems, including performance patterns and anti-patterns. In addition, the SPE is also aligned to UML, with an excellent discussion on extending the UML and some example scenarios that show how to specify time, concurrency and other performance characteristics.<br />The SPE models given in Part II cover the full spectrum of system types, including distributed and web-based systems.  The material is highly technical and requires close attention.  It is also clearly written and will provide the design team (not to mention the post-implementation support team) with analytical techniques and an effective analysis approach to performance management. The highlights of this part of the book were the way middleware overhead is taken into account, scenarios and modeling hints.<br /><br />Data collection is the topic of Part III and is covered in detail.  The chapters I most liked in this part included resource estimation techniques and software measurement and instrumentation. Part IV will be the focal point for designers and architects in that it addresses performance solutions.  Chapter topics include:  performance-oriented design, performance patterns and performance anti-patterns(excellent material!) and implementation solutions.  The latter covers performance tuning, as well as language-dependent and -independent solutions for OO software.  The two languages discussed are c++ and java.<br /><br />Part V is devoted to applications and provides a thorough discussion of web and realtime embedded system performance issues. The format of the two chapters in this part include: performance issues, SPE models, environments and constraints.  Realtime systems are given a more in-depth treatment because of the special nature of these systems.  I liked the case study that used a telephone switching system for realtime systems because I have professional interests in that area.<br /><br />The actual steps for implementing SPE is the subject of Part VI, which covers the process, associated life cycle activities, post-deployment performance management and how to integrate SPE into your organization's software process.  Part VII's two appendices are valuable.  Appendix A covers UML notation and Appendix B covers SPE modeling notations.  Both are useful as quick reference guides.<br />This is a comprehensive book that, while focused on a narrow topic, covers all issues and factors in minute detail.  The book complements two other outstanding works, Software Reliability Engineered Testing by John D. Musa, and Testing Object-Oriented Systems by Robert V. Binder.  Although the latter books are more focused on testing, the material dovetails nicely with the SPE approach given in this book.n this part included resource estimation techniques and software measurement and instrumentation. Part IV will be the focal point for designers and architects in that it addresses performance solutions.  Chapter topics include:  performance-oriented design, performance patterns and performance anti-patterns(excellent material!) and implementation solutions.  The latter covers performance tuning, as well as language-dependent and -independent solutions for OO software.  The two languages discussed are c++ and java.<BR>                 <BR>Part V is devoted to applications and provides a thorough discussion of web and realtime embedded system performance issues. The format of the two chapters in this part include: performance issues, SPE models, environments and constraints.  Realtime systems are given a more in-depth treatment because of the special nature of these systems.  I liked the case study that used a telephone switching system for realtime systems because I have professional interests in that area.<BR>                       <BR>The actual steps for implementing SPE is the subject of Part VI, which covers the process, associated life cycle activities, post-deployment performance management and how to integrate SPE into your organization's software process.  Part VII's two appendices are valuable.  Appendix A covers UML notation and Appendix B covers SPE modeling notations.  Both are useful as quick reference guides.<br />This is a comprehensive book that, while focused on a narrow topic, covers all issues and factors in minute detail.  The book complements two other outstanding works, Software Reliability Engineered Testing by John D. Musa, and Testing Object-Oriented Systems by Robert V. Binder.  Although the latter books are more focused on testing, the material dovetails nicely with the SPE approach given in this book.	2001-09-30
1826279:US	53037408	R391F9RRT0BA5S	1929065248	389717045	7 Steps to Better Written Policies and Procedures	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Adds Structure, Clarity and Effectiveness	This book is better suited to experienced policies and procedures writers. If you are new to writing policies and procedures I highly recommend first reading the author's first book, &quot;Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures&quot; from which the key principles in this one are derived.<br />As someone who has extensive experience I found this book to be an invaluable aid.  The structured format the author provides ensures that your policies and procedures are consistent.<br />The most valuable sections that even the most experienced writer will appreciate are (1)40-step action plan that sets forth roles and responsibilities, key tasks and quality assurance of your policies and procedures (this section is based on another of the author's books titled &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot;).  (2) The 5-step writing process.  This section is a model workflow that augments the action plan, as well as provide a good basis for estimating level of effort to produce policies and procedures.  In fact, this 5-step process can be adapted to any type of writing from user manuals to proposals.  I have completely incorporated this into my own &quot;bag of tricks&quot;.  (3)Templates and examples.  The best way to learn is by example and the ones provided in this book add more value and show best practices.<br />Aside from providing an effective 7-step approach to developing policies and procedures (including the 40-step action plan and 5-step writing process), this book can easily serve as a style guide for corporate policy and procedure writers, as well as a training manual for members of business teams tasked with developing policies and procedures.  I cannot emphasize strongly enough the fact that this book should be used in conjunction with &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot; if you are serious about quality policies that are enforceable.  I also recommend that you consider &quot;Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures&quot; instead of this book if you are new to writing policies and procedures.  After you've mastered the basics this book will serve as a ready reference.icies and Procedures&quot; instead of this book if you are new to writing policies and procedures.  After you've mastered the basics this book will serve as a ready reference.	2001-09-27
1829506:US	53037408	RZV61UJSZ9HKT	0201722305	393088837	CyberRegs: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent treatment of a very important topic	This is one of the most important books I've read because it clearly explains intellectual property laws, and how those laws affect all of us, regardless of whether our frame of reference is e-commerce or off-line business.<br />It starts with an introduction that in five short pages sets the essence of the web in a clear context. If you are like me and normally skip introductions, do yourself a favor and read this one.<br />The four parts of this book cover copyright, patents, electronic signatures and privacy. Each topic area is part of a mosaic that contains related elements that are not always grouped together (i.e., those concerned with intellectual property may not care about privacy).  However, these four parts comprise the source of challenges and opportunities for the &quot;connected&quot; world.<br />Instead of a blow-by-blow description of each part or chapter I am going to address what I liked most:<br />(1) The history and concepts of each topic are woven into the factual narrative and insightful analysis provided by the author.  Each topic is reinforced by court cases, many of which are still ongoing or not completely settled. After you've finished each of the parts you will have a keen understanding of the issues and challenges of copyrights, patents, electronic signatures and privacy. I especially liked the way the author sorted out the complexities of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and current patent law, and the balanced reporting of strengths and weaknesses of these.<br />(2) The opportunity to make money off of a business that has as its sole product patents is fascinating.  The discussion of Walker Digital's business model is bound to have an impact on the entrepreneurial reader.  I also thought that Chapter 3, Control Put into Practice, was excellent because it describes how the author's company was forced to change its business model based on customer demand and opportunities seen by going to electronic distribution.  The way challenges and threats were handled is excellent reading and encompasses legal and technical considerations.<br />(3) The balanced view the author brings to the good and bad of intellectual property laws, electronic signatures and privacy will keep you focused on the issues instead of succumbing to the temptation to polarize one way or the other (and it *is* a temptation to take one or the other sides).  Moreover, the writing is excellent and at times witty.  It is also filled with deep analysis and fact.<br />I came away with a deeper understanding of intellectual property laws, an appreciation of the challenges faced by lawmakers and courts, and the ability to see polarizing issues from many points of view. I also came away with some keen insights into how the web has changed things, and the excitement of the opportunities that [current] intellectual property laws and the web combine to open opportunities.and threats were handled is excellent reading and encompasses legal and technical considerations.<br />(3) The balanced view the author brings to the good and bad of intellectual property laws, electronic signatures and privacy will keep you focused on the issues instead of succumbing to the temptation to polarize one way or the other (and it *is* a temptation to take one or the other sides).  Moreover, the writing is excellent and at times witty.  It is also filled with deep analysis and fact.<br />I came away with a deeper understanding of intellectual property laws, an appreciation of the challenges faced by lawmakers and courts, and the ability to see polarizing issues from many points of view. I also came away with some keen insights into how the web has changed things, and the excitement of the opportunities that [current] intellectual property laws and the web combine to open opportunities.	2001-09-25
1831794:US	53037408	RQ0XQY22T75C	0471118885	595352012	Software Quality Management and ISO 9001: How to Make Them Work for You	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Out-of-date; useful in areas for non-ISO 9001 shops	This book is a good step-by-step description of 1994 version of ISO 9001 as it relates to software.<br />Book strengths are: (1) Not bogged down with history, the politics of standards or doom and gloom if you do not employ ISO 9001 as a foundation of software quality, (2)you are taken through the key elements of ISO 9001 and shown how to develop a quality manual, project quality plans and process documentation and (3) the conformance checklist, which will greatly aid you in sorting out what needs to be addressed.<br />Book weaknesses: Out of date (published in 1995 and only addresses ISO 9001 circa 1994).<br />This is still a valuable book for organizations that want to implement a quality foundation, particularly with respect to document control and repeatability in procedures.  If you do purchase this book to assist you in pursuing ISO 9001 registration for software and services I strongly recommend augmenting it with &quot;ISO 9001:2000 Explained&quot; by Cianfrani, Tsiakals and West.  That book will bring the material up to the 2000 version of ISO 9001. Also consider  &quot;ISO 9000-3: A Tool for Software Product and Process Improvement&quot; by Raymond Kehoe, et al, which is a more comprehensive treatment of the subject (note that this book also is out of date with respect to the 2000 version of ISO 9001).	2001-09-23
1831832:US	53037408	R3S87UML7GDTQL	0201719363	189028702	Quality Web Systems: Performance, Security, and Usability	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Covers all of the major issues and factors	Although the authors of this book are noted experts in software testing this book goes far beyond testing by addressing the full range of quality and design issues for web-based systems.<br />All of the major elements of web-engineering and quality are addressed, including SECURITY (this is the first test or quality book that fully acknowledges the relationship between quality and security, which is a cornerstone of the Reliability-Availability-Support triad for systems in production), PERFORMANCE (I especially liked this section because it got into the guts of performance and scalability), COMPATIBILITY (essential for ensuring that your system works with the world of users over whom you have no control - web-based systems can and usually do extend into the great unknown), and USABILITY (this will make or break a commercial web site).<br />Aside for the complete coverage of all of the important topics that need to be considered, and the life cycle approach to quality and testing this book contained a real gem:  RSI approach to use cases.  RSI (Requirements-Service-Interface) is an interesting and highly useful approach to use cases.  Some key strengths of using the RSI paradigm is that you will ensure traceability between requirements and the services and interfaces that are implemented. Moreover, this approach partitions services and interfaces, which allows you to manage the complexities when developing a test strategy and associated test cases.  To me the chapter on RSI was worth the price of the book.<br />Overall, this is a solid book that covers testing, as well as the larger domain of systems quality. It gives some unique insights of issues and factors related to testing, but is not solely about web testing.  It should be read by all key team members including requirements analysts, architects, developers, test engineers and project managers *before* a web project is initiated.	2001-09-23
1831918:US	53037408	R3D1U2V14UNNBT	0818680016	253761723	Software Management	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Somewhat dated, but mostly valid collection of papers	This collection of IEEE and ACM papers written by an all star case of industry experts is showing its age in many areas.  For example Barry Boehm's &quot;A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement&quot;, while valid for high-risk projects that push the technical envelope, is too risk-adverse for rapid or incremental development projects that are in increasing use.<br />However, some papers that you may be tempted to reject out-of-hand, such as TRW's Ada Process Model for Incremental Development of Large Software Systems is actually worth reading for organizations that have committed to the Rational Unified Process.<br />Overall, the range of papers covers every aspect of software engineering project management.  The applicability of the papers collected in this book to contemporary practices is uneven.  Some practices are either thoroughly documented and accepted best practices (the entire section of papers on project management), or are transitioning to newer models (the material on the CMM).  On the other hand, some papers in this collection are gems and make this book worthwhile despite its age (planning and estimation papers).<br />One final note - the layout and design of this book could be greatly improved.  Despite the age and some of the shortcomings I noted this is still a worthwhile resource for software engineering professionals who are working in a CMM Level 2 or above organization.	2001-09-22
1832251:US	53037408	R1QM6FADNMI2YA	0471578533	136564493	Practical Software Reuse (Wiley Series in Software Engineering Practice)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent for &quot;whitebox&quot; reuse	Before you purchase this book understand that the author's approach is &quot;whitebox&quot; reuse, wherein you have a repository of *baseline* components that are modified to suit development requirements.  Contrast this with the &quot;blackbox&quot; approach wherein components are developed to have well-defined interfaces and internal logic and are not designed to be modified. Each approach has strengths and weaknesses, and each is suited for specific organizations based on business goals.  Therefore, if you are a &quot;blackbox&quot; shop or are leaning in that direction this book is not going to meet your needs.<br />If you are seeking a book based on &quot;whitebox&quot; then this is an excellent introductory text for managers exploring the benefits of software reuse.<br />The first section, Fundamental Concepts, thoroughly covers the basics of reuse strategy and concepts and critical success factors.<br />Business case analysis is covered in the second section.  The three chapters cover the basics and will provide you with solid information to support a business decision to go with reuse.  Do not skip this section because while the whole intent of reuse is cost savings, the realities of implementing and managing reuse are that it requires a significant investment to get there.<br />The final section covers making the transition to reuse and ongoing management of reuse as an organizational policy and process.<br />A few final notes: (1) This is not a comprehensive &quot;how-to&quot; book - it is a management-level look at all issues and factors that need to be taken into account before deciding whether or not reuse is a good fit for your organization.  (2) If you are exploring or seeking compliance with IEEE Standard 1517, Software Reuse Process, this book will provide you with the business case aspects, but is not necessarily consistent with the process as set forth in 1517.<br />If &quot;whitebox&quot; reuse is the direction you want to go, this book is an excellent introduction to reuse as a concept, and the associated business case issues and transition requirements.n excellent introduction to reuse as a concept, and the associated business case issues and transition requirements.	2001-09-22
1832544:US	53037408	R1UOPH6BNXCJZH	0849310768	114619914	Integrating ERP, CRM, Supply Chain Management, and Smart Materials	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Interesting combination of blue sky and practical	This book is difficult to classify other than it ties together a number of related, but different, disciplines.  It is also one of the most interesting books on ERP, CRM and SCM I have ever read because of the eclectic array of topics and fascinating points of view.<br />Chapters I liked based on professional interest are: Auditing the Implementation, Operation and Maintenance of ERP Software, The Ongoing Change in the Practice of Auditing Information Technology,  Auditing Supply Chain Solutions and Enterprise Resource Planning Systems,  Case Studies in Auditing a Company's Financial Statements and Other Reports, Auditing the Security/Protection Methodology and Providing Improvements.  These are solidly written and thoroughly cover all aspects of the topics. This is no surprise if you are familiar with Mr. Chorafas' work, which is heavily slanted towards financial management.<br />I also liked &quot;The Next Frontier in Technology and in Supply Chain Management&quot;, which is one of the more visionary chapters in the book.  It also has one of the longest titles I have ever seen (I truncated the complete title name). Unfortunately, like the title, well crafted sentences are not a hallmark of Mr. Chorafas' writing.  Despite that, the information he provides between the covers of this book is thought-provoking and excellent fodder for long-range strategic planning.<br />If you are an architect, strategic planner of CIO of a company that employs or plans to employ any two or the three foundation systems discussed in this book (ERP, CRM or SCM) this book is essential reading.  It is also an excellent resource for consultants who specialize in any of the three system types.	2001-09-22
1832567:US	53037408	R3OEE5I73KML0D	0201719762	672513774	Metadata Solutions: Using Metamodels, Repositories, XML, and Enterprise Portals to Generate Information on Demand	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Essential for portal architects	This book is not only essential for architects involved with portal design, but also the supporting cast of data architects, business analysts and process modelers.  If the &quot;XML&quot; or &quot;portal&quot; keywords in the title led you top this book and you are not exactly sure what a &quot;metadata solution is&quot;, the following definition from the book succinctly describes it and the theme of the book itself: Metadata solution An organized and integrated set of related metadata, logically connected but physically separate, with common access points and methods.&quot;<br />The author covers the topic thoroughly, starting with an exhaustive discussion of information and its value to business that spans the first six chapters.  Some excellent case studies are included to reinforce concepts.  Part II consists of five chapters that take information up one level of abstraction and introduce metadata.  Topics in this section start with requirements, and move to modeling.  It's worth noting here that the OMG Open Information Model notation is heavily used in this section of the book.  This should not be a problem because the notation is easy to follow and is widely known and used, reducing any learning curve to zero for experienced architects and modelers.<br />Part III's three chapters delve into the underlying infrastructure technologies and tools. I especially liked the chapter on repositories, as well as the one that provided a balanced view of standards. Part IV is where the pace picks up with four chapters devoted to factors you need to consider before designing the solution.  The case studies that are included in some of these chapters are important reading because they portray the issues and challenges that are associated with the factors.  The last chapter in this section leads you through the design selection process.<br /><br />I especially like Section V, which is a catalog of solutions that thoroughly examine each aspect of the solution.  It starts off with a chapter that describes a typical disaster, followed by viable solutions presented in a format that can be easily recast into design patterns. I also like Section VI, which covers post-implementation administration and maintenance.  The three chapters in this section cover topics that are often overlooked until a solution is ready to go into production or (in too many cases) after it has been released into production.<br />Key points about this book:  (1) It is unique in that it addresses the data abstraction requirements of portals, and does so comprehensively.  (2)  Provides an end-to-end view of metadata from concept to final solution using real life examples and sound techniques.  This is a refreshing change from many books that address metadata, but are so abstract themselves that it is difficult to transform the concepts into a working solution. (3) Addresses post implementation issues, which is something I have never come across in a book on metadata.<br />This is an important work and is essential reading for key players in a portal design and implementation project.  Five stars and my highest recommendation..  It starts off with a chapter that describes a typical disaster, followed by viable solutions presented in a format that can be easily recast into design patterns. I also like Section VI, which covers post-implementation administration and maintenance.   The three chapters in this section cover topics that are often overlooked until a solution is ready to go into production or (in too many cases) after it has been released into production.   <br />Key points about this book:  (1) It is unique in that it addresses the data abstraction requirements of portals, and does so comprehensively.  (2)  Provides an end-to-end view of metadata from concept to final solution using real life examples and sound techniques.  This is a refreshing change from many books that address metadata, but are so abstract themselves that it is difficult to transform the concepts into a working solution. (3) Addresses post implementation issues, which is something I have never come across in a book on metadata. <br />This is an important work and is essential reading for key players in a portal design and implementation project.  Five stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-09-22
1832783:US	53037408	R13S5VYSS20QVI	0471414441	276763648	E-Business Privacy and Trust: Planning and Management Strategies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wide range of topics - does not go very deep in any	At 240 pages with a scope that covers the broad spectrum of privacy issues this book is more like a whitepaper or comprehensive executive overview.  However, that can make this book more valuable to the right audience than a 1000 page tome that gets bogged down into details.  The best audience is falls into two domains: marketing and corporate communications on the business side, and the technical staff involved in requirements and design.<br />The book is fast-paced and highly focused on each topic. It begins with an excellent discussion of marketing vs. privacy, which is an important opening topic because many analysts believe that the failure of e-business to meet its potential is because of consumer mistrust of information that is collected about their buying habits.  With the big issue out of the way, the author goes into a succinct and clearly explained chapter intended to be a primer on privacy law.  This sets the context for the rest of the book.<br />Each subsequent chapter addresses a specific topic.  Each is well written and the range of topics spans every aspect of e-business privacy both in the U.S. and in Europe. The chapter titles are:<br />Healthcare Law Mandates Security and Privacy, Privacy of Personal Financial Information,Internet Privacy for Children, European Union Privacy Protection Mandate, Information Privacy and Compliance Programs, Internal Protection Controls, Creating and Communicating Policies, Digital Signatures Liberate Electronic Commerce, Biometric Security Systems, Encryption Security for Electronic Commerce, Protecting Proprietary Information, Secrecy and Noncompete Agreements, Computer Insurance: Risks and Protection, Audit Checklists and Monitoring.<br />As you can see, the topics are divided among general purpose privacy (i.e., privacy of personal financial information), technical (i.e., biometric security systems) and industry- or region-specific (i.e., healthcare law; EU privacy protection mandate).<br />With such a short page count and wide scope this book is not going to provide detailed answers.  However, it will force you to see the bigger picture and carefully examine which areas you will need to address in more detail.  From there you can obtain consulting services, training for in-house staff and/or additional books that address your specific areas of interest at the level of detail you require.  I personally think this book is valuable for the reasons stated above and highly recommend it to anyone who needs to see e-business privacy at a macro level.ge count and wide scope this book is not going to provide detailed answers.  However, it will force you to see the bigger picture and carefully examine which areas you will need to address in more detail.  From there you can obtain consulting services, training for in-house staff and/or additional books that address your specific areas of interest at the level of detail you require.  I personally think this book is valuable for the reasons stated above and highly recommend it to anyone who needs to see e-business privacy at a macro level.	2001-09-21
1833758:US	53037408	RSE1FN556U62A	0471391875	176309699	Technical Support on the Web: Designing and Managing an Effective E-Support Site	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Solid foundation. Strong on Business case and PM	This book contains information that will be equally useful to call centers supporting customers and internal IT help desks that are exploring the benefits of web-based issue management via a corporate intranet.  The previous reviewed has provided a comprehensive assessment of this book, so I'll address the highlights that I found to be useful:<br />(1) The business-case first approach that the author takes is straightforward and provides step-by-step procedures for determining the true business value of web-enabled technical support vs. traditional call centers.  I especially liked the discussion of first, second and third generation site models because it gives you a target model and shows both the business and technical value of each.  I also liked the way ROI factors and ratings were used to determine ROI potential.  The factors are management, functions and tools, and the ratings are a simple Good or Poor.  This is placed into context with a table that shows the combinations of factors and ratings and their associated potential and gives you a structured decision tool at a glance.<br />(2) Scope approach given in the book is complete in that it takes into account all stakeholder views (business, technical support and users/customers).  This forces you to take a realistic look at goals and objectives and, using ROI information, begin making intelligent and informed trade-offs.<br />(3) Site creation map is consistent with good project management practices in that it uses a task and associated details approach.  The details provided include deliverables and what the deliverables should contain.  Project planners and managers will find this section particularly valuable.<br />(4)  Support processes and procedures are well thought out and can be used as a benchmarking tool as well as planning and implementation guidelines.<br />(5)  I like the way the section on site management is goal-driven and traceable back to ROI.  If this approach is followed you will have processes that are designed for continuous improvement.<br />(6)  The use of tables and lists throughout the book provides a wealth of information on nearly every topic.<br />There are a few areas that were weak: no mention of portal technology, which can be employed to create user-customizable features and incorporate advanced knowledge management functionality into a web-enabled support system.  Also, there was no discussion of configuration control over content or legal issues that need to be considered when providing technical support to customers (as opposed to internal end users).<br />Overall this is an exceptionally valuable book that is among the best on the subject.  Highly recommended to IT help desks and product technical support center managers.cesses that are designed for continuous improvement.<br />(6)  The use of tables and lists throughout the book provides a wealth of information on nearly every topic. <br />There are a few areas that were weak: no mention of portal technology, which can be employed to create user-customizable features and incorporate advanced knowledge management functionality into a web-enabled support system.  Also, there was no discussion of configuration control over content or legal issues that need to be considered when providing technical support to customers (as opposed to internal end users).<br />Overall this is an exceptionally valuable book that is among the best on the subject.  Highly recommended to IT help desks and product technical support center managers.	2001-09-20
1835256:US	53037408	R3JOH6SZRJROKY	0521791529	622701174	Enterprise Resource Planning Systems: Systems, Life Cycle, Electronic Commerce, and Risk	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Due diligence if you're evaluating ERP systems	This book is more suited as an executive guide for anyone who is considering ERP or evaluating ERP systems.  In fact, the book appears to have been designed with busy senior management and executives in mind because it's focused, hits all of the key points and each chapter is treated as a whitepaper that ends with case studies reinforcing the topic and references.  Also, the author makes excellent use of window diagrams throughout to convey information.  A random example if this is in chapter 11 where the linkage between implementation approach (big bang vs. phases) is shown by impact of the extent of changes to be made to ERP modules (minimal to extensive) vs. Number of modules in implementation (few to many) and how this translates to the preferred method.  This is but one of many such examples.<br />The book is organized into four parts: (1) introduction, (2) ERP systems and capabilities, (3) ERP life cycle (deciding, selecting, designing, post implementation and training) and (4) electronic commerce and risk.<br />Each section is backed with cited references and necessary facts with which to decide whether or not to opt for an ERP system, and if so, how to select the correct package.  The references and citations extend into every chapter, which I liked because when the author cites a fact, such as a typical cost of an ERP implementation ... you know where that figure came from.  I normally do not like discussions of specific products in general books, but given the narrow field of ERP vendors the discussion of each of the major players, their company histories and market position is appropriate for this book given the subject and audience.<br />I personally liked the case studies at the end of each chapter because there were specific to the chapter's topic, were drawn from real life, and were frank about the problems encountered and how they were addressed.  This is a gold mine for executive management seeking to determine the true scope, cost and potential value of an ERP project.  I also like how each option for implementation was thoroughly covered.<br />Overall, this book provides complete coverage of all of the issues and factors that need to be examined before taking the plunge into an ERP system. It will definitely allow executive management to make informed decisions, and will also prepare IT and business stakeholders for the realities of an implementation.  This book will pay for itself many times over for the intended audience. It is clear, concise and factual.ue of an ERP project.  I also like how each option for implementation was thoroughly covered.<br />Overall, this book provides complete coverage of all of the issues and factors that need to be examined before taking the plunge into an ERP system. It will definitely allow executive management to make informed decisions, and will also prepare IT and business stakeholders for the realities of an implementation.  This book will pay for itself many times over for the intended audience. It is clear, concise and factual.	2001-09-19
1836725:US	53037408	R2HE8X9IMCR9SX	0201708477	842930936	E-Business and IS Solutions: An Architectural Approach to Business Problems and Opportunities	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Sound principles, successful approach and common sense	This slim, 288-page book addresses architecture as a set of principles and a seven-step approach.  It's filled with common sense, and will provide you with the big picture and high-level steps that will place architecture into a coherent context.<br />First, the principles and approach really are aligned to e-business although they can also be applied to any system or enterprise application.  Second, the book may appear to be basic, but the author manages to get you think out of the box every step of the way.  An example is the scope-trade off discussion in chapter 4 where you are shown an illustration of a road improvement project that depicts an ideal (and not so feasible) solution and some alternatives.  In a single, simple illustration and a few paragraphs the whole concept of scope trade-off crystallizes and comes into sharp focus.  Another example is a text box on page 37 that describes how the author and his wife, both IS professionals, attempted to devise a check book system for personal use.  The story drives home the fact that even professionals and prime stakeholders can get requirements wrong.<br />Among the things I like most are:  the seven-stage process itself and associated principles, which make you step back and look at architecture as its most basic level; the discussion of architecture and its relationship to object-orientation is one of the best compare and contrast pieces on the topic I've read; and the discussion on component-based software engineering is concise and completely aligned to that approach to both e-business in general and architecture in particular.<br />This book reminds me of those written by Gerald Weinberg on that it focuses on deeper aspects of a subject than mere technology.  True, the technical aspects of this book are lightweight, but the underlying principles and approach are anything but.  If you're seeking low-level technical information on architecture pass this by. If you want to read a book that will inspire you to think out of the box, organize the important elements of architecture and infuse massive doses of common sense, this book is a treasure and has my highest recommendation.think out of the box, organize the important elements of architecture and infuse massive doses of common sense, this book is a treasure and has my highest recommendation.	2001-09-18
1837223:US	53037408	R1MBA4UJEVZHU0	1901857050	294152047	HIPAA@IT Reference : Health Information Transactions, Privacy, and Security	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Essential for health care IT staff and consultants	As an IT consultant who works with health care clients (among other industries) this book is an invaluable guide.  First, it addresses HIPAA from an IT perspective; and, second, it cuts through thousands of pages of sometimes confusing text associated with NPRMs and law to expose the key issues.<br />There are three main areas covered in this book: (1) Transactions and Codes (from the perspective of payments between providers and payers and includes transactions, code sets, identifiers and impact), (2) Privacy (patient-health care relationship covering key HIPAA requirements)  and (3)Security (compliance life cycle, real-world security policy, computer security models and technical security mechanisms).<br />The book is focused, fluff-free (to the point of being terse) and up-to-date as of Sep 2001.  If you are an IT consultant or a health care IT staff member, especially with direct HIPAA support responsibilities, this is an essential reference.	2001-09-17
1837695:US	53037408	R1WBHTWU2YA4Z	0471132233	400238003	The Art of Testing Network Systems	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Uniquely valuable - fills two gaps	This book addresses two technical domains that should be complimentary, but rarely are:  (1) network and infrastructure maintenance and management, and (2) applications and systems QA.<br />For the network infrastructure and maintenance domain this book provides a structured testing methodology that includes the key elements of both quality assurance and release of changes to production.  For applications and systems testing teams it gives the necessary technical details for effectively performing applications and systems testing in a distributed environment.  Too often the applications test group is called upon to conduct performance testing of distributed applications and miss some critical factors that should have been included in the test plan and associated test cases.  The cause of this oversight is a lack of technical information in the application testing body of knowledge, which this book corrects.<br />What makes this book especially valuable is the emphasis on availability, application response and reliability. These are essential elements of service level agreements and the author does not lose sight of that fact.<br />I especially like the way the book starts by putting testing into a business and technical context.  The eight chapters that comprise Part II of the book provide a structured test methodology that is completely consistent with testing best practices in the applications and systems test domain.  This gives network and infrastructure professionals an effective and proven methodology, and gives their applications and systems colleagues a familiar point of reference because network testing has grey areas that overlap their domain.<br />Part II will be familiar territory to network professionals and is in many ways the heart of this book.  The test cases provided can be templated and used in real life QA efforts, adding value to this book.  Part III is where the overlap between network and applications testing becomes apparent.  The material provided in the chapters in this part are filled with invaluable information that will enable applications and systems test professionals to develop viable test plans and cases for &quot;footprint&quot; testing, performance and application response testing in distributed environments.  This is where the book becomes valuable to both groups. Part IV, Test Tools, is obsolete and can be safely ignored.<br />This is an outstanding book that should be in the libraries of both network maintenance and support groups and applications and systems QA groups. The approach provided is straightforward and is focused in the right direction - on availability and reliability in support of service levels.ovided in the chapters in this part are filled with invaluable information that will enable applications and systems test professionals to develop viable test plans and cases for &quot;footprint&quot; testing, performance and application response testing in distributed environments.  This is where the book becomes valuable to both groups. Part IV, Test Tools, is obsolete and can be safely ignored. <br />This is an outstanding book that should be in the libraries of both network maintenance and support groups and applications and systems QA groups. The approach provided is straightforward and is focused in the right direction - on availability and reliability in support of service levels.	2001-09-17
1838082:US	53037408	R2HIQQ5YPDL22Y	0834220342	411266256	HIPAA Compliance Handbook: Electronic Transactions and Privacy Standards (Paperback)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Valuable checklists and procedures	This is a 143-page reference that is filled with checklists and sample procedures for HIPAA compliance. It's up-to-date with respect to notifications of proposed rule making (NPRMs) and current law.  Anyone in health care who is responsible for implementing HIPAA (including consultants) will find this to be a time saver.  Parts II and III make this book &quot;must-have&quot;. Contents are:<br />PART I - Electronic Transactions and Privacy Standards Under HIPAA.<br />Administrative Simplification under HIPAA: Regulatory History.<br />Final Rule on Standards for Electronic Transactions under HIPAA.<br />Proposed Rule of Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information.<br />The &quot;Minimum Disclosure&quot; Requirement under the Proposed Rule on Standards for Privacy.<br />Whistle-Blower Provisions in HIPAA's Privacy Rule<br />Appendix A. Standards for Particular Transactions<br />Appendix B. Medical Data Code Sets under 45 C.F.R. 162<br />PART II. HIPAA Compliance Checklists.<br />A HIPAA Checklist: How To Prepare Your Organization.<br />A Quick Guide to Compliance with HIPAA.<br />Medical Information Privacy: Getting Started.<br />Privacy Standards Assessment Tool.<br />Notice of Information Checklist.<br />Privacy Policies and Procedures Checklist.<br />Portable Computer Security Guidelines.<br />Basic Operational Tenets for Protecting the Privacy of Personal Health Information on the<br />Internet.<br />Internet Security Policy<br />PART III. HIPAA Compliance Policies and Procedures.<br />Procedures Relating to Letters of Agreement/Contracts.<br />Sample Contractual Agreement.<br />Additional Elements Appropriate to Specific Contract Types.<br />Procedures Relating to Security Audits.<br />Procedures Relating to Disaster Planning for Health Information.<br />Model Job Description: Chief Privacy Officer.<br />Implementing HIPAA's Privacy Rule with Business Partners.<br />ABC Health Care System Patient Information<br />Privacy Procedures --<br />Pt. IV. State-By-State Guide to Medical Privacy Statutesuide to Medical Privacy Statutes	2001-09-17
1838147:US	53037408	R34JZ9B5ORDPL7	1901857042	165586641	HIPAA@IT Essentials : Health Information Transactions, Privacy, and Security	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Streamlined version of HIPAA@IT Reference	This book is a streamlined version of HIPAA@IT Reference by the same author.  At roughly half the page count as the &quot;Reference&quot; edition, this book covers the same material but in a more abbreviated manner.  It leaves out non-essential information provided in the bigger book, such as history, theory and examples.  It also does not include two sections that go into detail about the 'Insurance Portability' and the 'Accountability' portions of HIPAA related to IS and administrative simplification.<br />As an IT consultant who works with health care clients (among other industries) this book or the more comprehensive one upon which it's based are invaluable guides.  Both address HIPAA from an IT perspective; both cut through thousands of pages of sometimes confusing text associated with NPRMs and law to expose the key issues.<br />There are three main areas covered: (1) Transactions and Codes (from the perspective of payments between providers and payers and includes transactions, code sets, identifiers and impact), (2) Privacy (patient-health care relationship covering key HIPAA requirements)  and (3)Security (compliance life cycle, real-world security policy, computer security models and technical security mechanisms).<br />The book is focused, fluff-free (to the point of being terse) and up-to-date as of Sep 2001.  If you are an IT consultant or a health care IT staff member, especially with direct HIPAA support responsibilities, this is an essential reference.	2001-09-17
1838383:US	53037408	R2JNQGG4TTVW7K	158053287X	211814113	Introduction to 3G Mobile Communications	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Highly technical description of all major facets of 3G	This book is a systematic look at 3G's component parts and underlying technologies.  It is not an engineering text in that there are no formulae or engineering details with respect to signalling, capacity or performance (even though network planning considerations are addressed).<br />It dissects 3G, starting with principles to provide an anchor.<br />The table of contents shows the progression in which the author deals with 3G as a collection of components, principles and protocols: Principles of Division Multiple Access, WCDMA Air Interface: Physical Layer, Modulation Techniques and Spread Spectrum, Spreading Codes, Channel Coding, WCDMA Air Interface: Protocol Stack. Network, Network Planning, Network Management, Procedures, New Concepts in the UMTS Network, 3G Services, and 3G Applications.<br />Because of the technical nature of this book and the level of detail given, it's best suited for readers who are familiar with the technical underpinnings of TDMA, CDMA or GSM.  The writing is clear and augmented by numerous illustrations, and each chapter ends with a list of references. The references are a strong point about this book because they are up-to-date and include books, papers and URLs.<br />If you are looking for engineering details this is the wrong book. If you have a background in related technologies and want to quickly get up-to-speed in 3G this is an excellent resource.	2001-09-16
1838642:US	53037408	RVZKAU4HGEM34	052179756X	912604679	Mobile Commerce : Opportunities, Applications, and Technologies of Wireless Business	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great starting point	This is a broad treatment of M-commerce and is aimed at a broad audience of business and technical readers.  Usually books of this nature are mediocre because of the trade-offs compromises in scope and content that need to be made to accommodate a wide audience.  In the case of the book, though, it isn't the case.<br />First, the book is organized by (1) Business opportunity, (2) Applications, (3) Technology, (4) Issues and (5) Directory of M-Commerce Applications. The first four sections are both insightful and invaluable.  The directory of M-commerce applications, in my opinion, does not add any value to the book because information of this nature changes so rapidly that it's inaccurate before a book is even published.<br />What I like about the book is the even treatment of opportunities that are inherent in M-commerce, including some insights into why Europe does not have the advantages that normally come from being early adopters (in spite of the pessimists who cite a &quot;two year head start&quot; while ignoring the U.S. leadership in technology implementation when we do get around to it), and the interesting view of WAP (Wireless Application Protocol), which many believe to be just an interim - the author advises to put resources and effort into WAP and make it part of a business strategy if you want to be an M-commerce player.<br />The survey of technologies and standards are also useful, even if given somewhat superficial treatment.  The value is you are exposed to all of the factors and considerations with which to make informed decisions or gain an understanding of the M-commerce landscape.  In this respect the applications and technology sections of the book can be viewed as a primer.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book for learning about M-commerce from business and technical points of view because it provides a context and keen insights in both domains.	2001-09-16
1838711:US	53037408	R8W9OK6A0WXIH	0471414050	376365338	GPRS and 3G Wireless Applications: Professional Developer's Guide	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Solid foundation material	If you're looking for a book on wireless application development from a code perspective this is the wrong book.  The value of this book is it provides a solid foundation that needs to be in place before coding starts.<br />It begins with basic concepts of how wireless infrastructure works.  Developers can safely ignore this section of the book.  I liked it because it sorted out the &quot;moving parts&quot; as well as the technological underpinnings.  It also answered a lot of questions I had regarding where standards and the industry as a whole were headed, and the strengths and weaknesses of existing technologies and why 3G is so important.  As an aside, I learned one trivial fact that had been bothering me:  where did the name &quot;Bluetooth&quot; come from?  Answer:  It was named after a Danish king, Harald Blatand who brought unity among different groups of people.  Blatand means Bluetooth in English. Not only does the name capture the spirit of Bluetooth as a technology, but this piece of trivia might gain you &quot;Alpha Geek&quot; status at a seminar or convention :-)<br />From chapter 3 on, however, is of paramount interest to architects and developers because it gets into lower level details of GPRS, 3G and Bluetooth.  The author provides all of the key characteristics of each technology from which a design and development strategy can be derived.  Chapter 6 is where both developers and architects will gain information for performance aspects of their products.  The author is meticulous in describing the issues and factors that will arise with protocols (the realities of TCP/IP over wireless in chapter 6 is priceless), and is supported with graphs and diagrams that a developer should carefully go over before writing a single line of code.<br />Because of my focus in QA and SQA I thought chapter 14 on testing was particularly strong.  Again, this is something that developers need to fully understand (as well as the rest of a project team), and the information provided in this chapter fills a large gap in the testing body of knowledge.<br />In response to previous comments about this book:  (1) Although the content on the CD ROM is out of date, the author's web site contains up-to-date artifacts and URLs. (2) I contacted the author directly (contact information is provided in the book) about the missing test documents cited on the cover of the book and found out that last minute copyright issues prevented their inclusion on the CD ROM. He sent me to where these documents could be obtained (for free) and they were well worth the effort. (3) The book is anything but basic - it gets into some low-level details such as timing and state diagrams that are essential for *properly* developing wireless applications.<br />The author has a talent for packing an incredible amount of information into a paragraph and still holding your interest.  He also comes across as authoritative and manages to cover a wide spectrum of issues and facts without compromising on details needed by developers and architects (or anyone who wants to update their knowledge on the latest wireless technologies).ation provided in this chapter fills a large gap in the testing body of knowledge.<br />In response to previous comments about this book:  (1) Although the content on the CD ROM is out of date, the author's web site contains up-to-date artifacts and URLs. (2) I contacted the author directly (contact information is provided in the book) about the missing test documents cited on the cover of the book and found out that last minute copyright issues prevented their inclusion on the CD ROM. He sent me to where these documents could be obtained (for free) and they were well worth the effort. (3) The book is anything but basic - it gets into some low-level details such as timing and state diagrams that are essential for *properly* developing wireless applications.  <br />The author has a talent for packing an incredible amount of information into a paragraph and still holding your interest.  He also comes across as authoritative and manages to cover a wide spectrum of issues and facts without compromising on details needed by developers and architects (or anyone who wants to update their knowledge on the latest wireless technologies).	2001-09-16
1838878:US	53037408	R1B4UOXNV3TKAB	076950874X	772849056	Software Reuse: A Standards-Based Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Valuable to a narrow audience	This book has two primary audiences:(1) those who have standardized on IEEE Std 1517 (Software Reuse Process) or (2) organizations that are (a) working within IEEE/EIA Standard 12207 (Standard for Information Technology, Software Life Cycle Processes) and (b) are incorporating reuse practices into their development process.  There is a secondary audience that consists of component-based software engineering and/or off-shore contractors (&quot;software factories&quot;) that are required to adhere to the 1517 or 12207.<br />The book primarily focuses on IEEE Std 1517, and does an excellent job of clearly explaining this standard from a macro view.  It also provides necessary details for incorporating 1517 into existing development processes.  Two strong chapters that I especially like covers the relationship of 1517 to the CMM, which gives some guidance for 1517's requirements into a CMM shop (although it probably would not be a good fit unless an organization was at least at CMM Level 3); and the relationship to UML, which can be expanded and extrapolated to fit within organizations that are using the Rational Unified Process, the OPEN Process or similar approaches.<br />Summary:  If you fit within the primary or secondary audiences I cited above this book is worthwhile.  Indeed, it will save time and resources because it is clear on what needs to be accomplished to implement 1517.  I also strongly recommend &quot;Measuring Software Reuse&quot; by Jeffrey Poulin as a companion to this book.  Combined, these two books contain a recipe for successful software reuse within the context of IEEE Std 1517.	2001-09-15
1838966:US	53037408	R24W6EWJ17VCX9	0201634139	769861538	Measuring Software Reuse: Principles, Practices, and Economic Models	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Metrics and models - No nonsense or hype	In my opinion this is the most detailed and systematic treatments of reuse from business and development process strategy points of view.<br />Among the things I especially like about this book are:  (1) the book addresses only blackbox reuse (assets that are used without modification) and defines the assets as both code and documentation instead of code alone.  This is consistent with contemporary component-based software engineering practices, making this 1997 book's content valid in 2001.  (2)  The overview of reuse metrics is illuminating in that this chapter exposes flaws in the reuse percent model, and offers alternatives such as a leverage model and economic models (cost avoidance, ROI and cost/benefit).  (3) Relative costs of developing with reuse of *for* reuse - each approach has some significant strengths, but each approach has quantifiable costs, which are thoroughly analyzed. (4) Counting rules. Here the rules for what to count as &quot;reuse&quot; are discussed.  This is one area that, without defined rules, can result in inflated claims or skewed results.  I especially like that fact that while the author prefers lines of code as a basis, he also shows how to use function points, objects, etc. to get accurate baseline metrics.<br />One of the most useful chapters, 5, covers measuring reuse and reuse benefits.  It's useful because in this &quot;one size does not fit all&quot; profession the nine different metrics and economics models provided give you an array of choices from which to choose.  Chapter 6's Applying Reuse Metrics on a Project reinforces the preceding chapters.  Possibly the strongest chapter (to me at least) is 9, which covers reuse across the life cycle.  The material here dovetails nicely with a later book by Carma McClure titled &quot;Software Reuse: A Standards-Based Guide&quot;.<br />Overall, this book stands as the definitive work on software reuse metrics and is probably more applicable today because of the strong movement towards component-based software engineering and off-shore development than when it was first written.s component-based software engineering and off-shore development than when it was first written.	2001-09-15
1839298:US	53037408	R171294UQDLLLD	0262050668	860601959	Performance Evaluation and Benchmarking with Realistic Applications	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly academic with useful information	The six chapters in this book contain two introductory papers and 11 technical papers on benchmarking in general. Each paper is written by one or more authors, making this a compendium of current research. Most of the book is slanted towards methods associated with Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC) benchmarking. The central theme is the creation and management of benchmarks for computer performance, and some of the challenges faced by the creators and maintainers to ensure the validity and accuracy of the benchmarks.<br />Chapter 1 is an overview of the book, discusses related work and provides brief insights on performance evaluations in the real world. Chapter 2 introduces SPEC and current issues, and moves into a second paper on performance evaluation of large-scale systems. The most theoretical chapter, 3, devotes two papers to SPEC benchmarks in the research environment.<br />To give an indication of how esoteric this chapter is, one of the papers is titled \\"The Allocation Behavior of the SPECjvm98 Java Benchmarks\\". This is the stuff of pure research; however, the discussion yields conclusions that can be used by development companies, particularly in the quality and architecture domains. Chapter 4 stands out as the most practical for real world applicability. It covers tools and methodologies for benchmarking and performance evaluation, with one paper devoted to a framework that can be applied to parallel applications, and the second paper in the chapter addressing performance coupling through case studies for measuring interactions of kernals. Large development organizations will find much useful information here. The final two chapters are a blend of theoretical and practical, with chapter 5 addressing related benchmarking efforts and chapter 6 devoted to needs for new benchmarks.<br /><br />The material is well researched; reading through it is somewhat ponderous. However, if you are involved in the creation of performance benchmarks, regardless of whether you intend to use SPEC or related models, this book will prove valuable. If you are seeking information on performance benchmarking in an operational environment this book may be too theoretical. As someone who is on the operational side, but with an interest in theoretical and academic works I found this book to be interesting, but not particularly useful. On the other hand, there is much in this book that *can* be directly applied by those who design, develop or verify and validate benchmarks. Moreover, this book represents the some of the latest research findings and thoughts (as I write this in Sep 2001) in this highly specialized field, making it invaluable to the right audience.dless of whether you intend to use SPEC or related models, this book will prove valuable. If you are seeking information on performance benchmarking in an operational environment this book may be too theoretical. As someone who is on the operational side, but with an interest in theoretical and academic works I found this book to be interesting, but not particularly useful. On the other hand, there is much in this book that *can* be directly applied by those who design, develop or verify and validate benchmarks. Moreover, this book represents the some of the latest research findings and thoughts (as I write this in Sep 2001) in this highly specialized field, making it invaluable to the right audience.	2001-09-15
1839830:US	53037408	R1EQM9VDREVE0W	020160468X	690973392	Web Business Engineering: Using Offline Activities to Drive Internet Strategies (Addison-Wesley Information Technology Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Refreshing, Business-focused and Candid	The author provides a business-oriented (and technology-free) approach to engineering an on-line presence that is effective and should set the standard for a methodology for how to go about such projects.  This is embodied in a framework that is defined by four principles (1) work is a combination of physical and informational activities, (2) informational work is accomplished by propagating content, (3) valuable and innovative content can be found in existing manual methods, and (4) an on-line strategy should be based on off-line advantages.  These principles are simple, yet powerful.  They are also not as easy to adhere to as they seem, which becomes apparent when you begin mapping activities in subsequent chapters.<br />There are so many things I like about this book, so I'll stick with the highlights.  First, the differences between the way IT/IS and business units approach projects are carefully examined.  Understanding these differences will make or break a web project, and as an IT professional I fully agree with the author that IT is the wrong organizational unit to lead and manage web projects. Their role should be relegated to that of support.<br />Second, the author leads you through the basics of value chain analysis, business factors and financial analysis.  This is an excellent refresher for business professionals and is essential reading for IT professionals, especially those who claim to be business analysts.  I learned a great deal from the discussion on ROI, NPV and IRR.  These are not new knowledge areas for me, but learning about the  fallacies and pitfalls inherent in each approach that can trap you or lead you to bad decisions was priceless.<br />What I learned the most from was the Quick Primer on Diagnosing Problems and Opportunities.  As in the rest of the book the author uses case studies to reinforce the concepts and principles.  In this case you are led through a mailing cost analysis and some of the results are surprising.  For example, after all of the cost drivers are mapped out on a spreadsheet you play with some variables and discover that commonsense properties of the model do not necessarily act in commonsense ways.  Doubling productivity (assuming it is possible to coax such a thing from humans) only yielded a 2.5% reduction in costs.  Using cheaper labor actually cost more in the particular model.  As an aside, the model was not contrived to create these counter-intuitive results - it is a plain vanilla cost model that you would commonly encounter or build.  In this chapter you are introduced to a step-by-step process that shows how to effectively perform a cost analysis and find the true drivers that can be changed to reduce or avoid costs.<br />A caveat about this book:  it can be easily read, but is merely interesting unless you take the time to carefully step through each case.  If, however, you take your time and work through the problems and trace the value chains--a tedious task--you will find that this book has many chapters that are profound.  That's a strong word, but in my opinion an accurate one. I've applied the approach in this book on a real-life project and can attest that it works extraordinarily well - and that's the highest compliment one can pay to an author.after all of the cost drivers are mapped out on a spreadsheet you play with some variables and discover that commonsense properties of the model do not necessarily act in commonsense ways.  Doubling productivity (assuming it is possible to coax such a thing from humans) only yielded a 2.5% reduction in costs.  Using cheaper labor actually cost more in the particular model.  As an aside, the model was not contrived to create these counter-intuitive results - it is a plain vanilla cost model that you would commonly encounter or build.  In this chapter you are introduced to a step-by-step process that shows how to effectively perform a cost analysis and find the true drivers that can be changed to reduce or avoid costs.<br />A caveat about this book:  it can be easily read, but is merely interesting unless you take the time to carefully step through each case.  If, however, you take your time and work through the problems and trace the value chains--a tedious task--you will find that this book has many chapters that are profound.  That's a strong word, but in my opinion an accurate one. I've applied the approach in this book on a real-life project and can attest that it works extraordinarily well - and that's the highest compliment one can pay to an author.	2001-09-14
1840683:US	53037408	R12IYVCXE7Y4QP	089006511X	814969543	Information Warfare Principles and Operations (Artech House Computer Science Library)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A thorough introduction to a complex discipline	This book presents an information warfare framework that is more aligned to national infrastructure and military systems protection than commercial enterprises.  However, the framework and systematic discussion of all of the relevant elements of information warfare can be applied to any environment - commercial, government or military.<br />The framework itself is sound and is the foundation of any infowar readiness posture. The book emphasizes a readiness posture that is defensive in nature, and the approach set forth addresses both strategic and tactical defense considerations.<br />There are a three of interesting viewpoints provides, which is consistent with the systems engineering approach taken: (1) hierarchy of strategic components.  These are presented topdown with defense and deterrence paths as follows: Policy, Strategy and Operational levels and Operational Influence Relationships. (2) A strategic process that encompasses development of strategy, threat analysis and assessment of effectiveness.  (3)  Operational model, comprised of perceptual, information and physical layers.<br />Issues such as MEII (Minimum Essential Information Infrastructure deployment and modes of operations are cogently discussed along with associated tactical responses (surveillance, mode control, auditing/forensic analysis and reporting).  The conceptual and process framework is augmented by a solid discussion of security technologies that are still in the large as accurate and valid today as when the book was written in 1998.<br />What I especially like about this book, aside from the systems engineering approach and viewpoints, is the complete coverage of the full spectrum of information warfare, including more subtle issues such as data and knowledge analysis, the cursory examination of offensive operations (seeing the info war from a hostile's viewpoint), and the copious amount of detail provided for each of the topics and subjects associated with infowar.<br />This book is an excellent starting point for corporate security organs that have matured to the point where infowar defensive measures can be effectively addressed.  Although infowar is an element of information security, the mindset for defense requires a vastly more mature security program than normal network and system security practices because the threats may not be strictly technical in nature.  This book will prepare you for the realities of infowar and give you insights about how it can be incorporated into your security posture.an excellent starting point for corporate security organs that have matured to the point where infowar defensive measures can be effectively addressed.  Although infowar is an element of information security, the mindset for defense requires a vastly more mature security program than normal network and system security practices because the threats may not be strictly technical in nature.  This book will prepare you for the realities of infowar and give you insights about how it can be incorporated into your security posture.	2001-09-13
1840707:US	53037408	R1JLTBJ7TLALIE	0471961833	293258577	Strategic Planning for Information Systems (John Wiley Series in Information Systems)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Rich resource for experienced strategic planners	In one respect this book is a classic because it is frequently referenced in the body of literature on IS/IT management and IS/IT strategic planning.  Out of the past 50 or so articles on the topic (including corporate and city/state/Federal government strategic plans, PHd dissertations and white papers) over 75% have cited this book.<br />This is not, however, a &quot;how-to&quot; book that describes a coherent strategic planning process.  It's a collection of standalone chapters on each key element of strategic planning. The material is presented in sequential order, but no single chapter depends on another. Moreover, there is no smooth continuity between the chapters or a master chapter that ties it all together.  That said, this book is valuable from two perspectives:<br />(1)  Each chapter is highly focused and contains a wealth of information on its topic.<br />(2)  Used as a collection of mature techniques this book could be used to support an effective strategic planning process.<br />The main value is the fact that each element of strategic planning is thoroughly covered.  I frequently use this book as a catalog of procedures and techniques for numerous projects, including strategic planning, assessment, process improvement and IS/IT organizational improvement.<br />If you are seeking a book that shows step-by-step how to perform IS/IT strategic planning you may not like this book.  However, if you are an experienced practitioner this book is a wonderful resource to which you'll find yourself frequently referring.	2001-09-13
1840782:US	53037408	R33O74CTUEMV7I	0471958042	579546774	Project Risk Management: Processes, Techniques and Insights	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Heavy on process and insight; light on technique	This is the most comprehensive treatment of project risk management processes I have read.  The focus is on the process itself, using techniques to illustrate the advice and insights that are heavily interspersed throughout.  Because techniques are used to reinforce the information on process and insights this book is better suited for readers who have a good understanding of risk management techniques.<br />Another feature is the risk management processes provided can be used for either project or product management because of the fine granularity of the project life cycle used - instead of the typical 6-stage Requirements, Design, Build, Test, Implement and Operate stages the authors use an 8-stage project life cycle that begins with conception and includes post-planning allocation and post-delivery review milestones.  Moreover, the typical risk management cycle of Identify, Analyze and Quantify, Prioritize and Manage is expanded into a much more detailed cycle that includes focusing, clarifying ownership issues, and scenario analysis.  In particular, the scenario analysis sub process is an excellent approach and allows you to go well beyond the typical expected monetary value and probability x impact types of analyses.<br />The authors assume that you have a good grounding in both probability and fundamental quantitative analysis techniques, and while both probability and a variety of techniques are used as examples they are only superficially explained.  The best part of the book, though, is the large number of insights imparted through cases and real-life situations.  These are thought-provoking, but require careful reading (especially for American readers who may not be used to the norms of the British vernacular).<br />If you are interested in a mature project or product risk management process and have some background in risk management this is a five-star book that absolutely should be in your library.	2001-09-13
1840918:US	53037408	R23QA5KPBWRP5N	084939824X	98738330	Enterprise operations management handbook 2nd edition	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Something for everyone in Ops/Infrastructure	This collection of essays covers the full range of enterprise operations management topics from networks and infrastructure to the desktop.  It is more useful as a shared resource than as a desk reference for any specific group.<br />Because of personal and professional interests, and specific work I am currently doing I quickly skimmed the enterprise network management and desktop computing sections and focused most of my reading on the sections devoted to other topical areas.<br />The sections on data center operations, IT management and customer support operations were the three I read carefully.  Each of these sections contained well-written and valid chapters on subjects that fit within their themes. Each author provided in-depth information for his/her topic.  Chapters in these sections that I most liked were Enterprise Modeling for Strategic Support, Providing Quality Information Services to the Customer, Evaluating a Job Scheduler in the Open Systems Arena. Although I have extensive knowledge and experience in each of these three areas I came away from them with even more knowledge and a respect for their authors.<br />Section VI, Equipment Asset Management, was uniformly excellent across all chapters and is worth the price of this book if you are struggling with establishing asset controls and an effective management process.  Likewise, Sections VIII (Quality Control and Computer Security) and IX (Contingency Planning) are well worth the price of the book if you are want some insightful, useful information on those topics. I especially liked the chapter titled The Legal Issues of Disaster Recovery Planning, which contains information that is both sobering and essential to crafting a &quot;safe&quot; DR strategy.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this excellent compendium to (1) IT Departments as a shared resource, (2) consulting firms and practice areas that specialize in IT operations management and/or process improvement, and (3) managers in each functional area of production services, data center operations and infrastructure/desktop support.l area of production services, data center operations and infrastructure/desktop support.	2001-09-13
1841040:US	53037408	R28L47E8WZEAB	0070168032	735171394	Developing Quality Systems: A Methodology Using Structured Techniques (MCGRAW HILL SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SERIES)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For the right audience worth its weight in gold	The title of this remarkable 385-page book might account for its going out of print. It's not about how to develop system with high quality - instead it's a complete blueprint for developing an in-house system for managing quality. This includes issue and metrics management and project planning and control functions. Literally, the author has provided complete plans for a software project and quality management system that would be a welcome addition to any organization with a well-defined SQA function or is operating at a capability level defined by SPICE (Software Process Improvement Capability dEtermination), CMM (Capability Maturity Model), or even a procedures-driven standard such as ISO 9000-3.<br /><br />Chapter 1 gives a complete preliminary plan in the form of dataflow diagrams for the system. This provides a high-level view of the system. Chapter 2, over 70 pages, is the data dictionary. It's well thought-out and takes you one level of abstraction lower in the design. It also serves as the data architecture and can be used to derive a DDL (data definition language) SQL script. Chapter 3, roughly 180 pages, is the heart of not only the system, but how to employ it. This chapter contains process descriptions for major milestones (project initiation, preliminary analysis and design, detailed analysis and design, build and install).<br /><br />The seven appendices cover overview of structured tools and techniques (quaint by today's standards), installing a methodology (as applicable today as when this was written in 1988!), model transformation case study (excellent reading), common questions and answers, rules for reviews (good material), survey/probe projection technique (interesting, but not profound) and business event partitioning (still valid today).<br /><br />Although few of us will probably build the system provided in the book, the design itself and the copious details provided are valuable for specification and design of software quality management systems, and can also be used to develop a checklist of features when comparing commercial off-the-shelf systems. More important, the completeness of the author's design makes it a worthwhile study for determining the \\"moving parts\\" of a software quality management system.<br /><br />In my opinion this book was ahead of its time and would be a hot seller into organizations and among practitioners who are grappling with how to obtain tools and systems to support quality initiatives. If you are in that audience this book is worth tracking down.systems, and can also be used to develop a checklist of features when comparing commercial off-the-shelf systems. More important, the completeness of the author's design makes it a worthwhile study for determining the \\"moving parts\\" of a software quality management system.<br /><br />In my opinion this book was ahead of its time and would be a hot seller into organizations and among practitioners who are grappling with how to obtain tools and systems to support quality initiatives. If you are in that audience this book is worth tracking down.	2001-09-13
1841092:US	53037408	R2NGAZSXA63LBZ	0890066353	228026443	Risk Management Processes for Software Engineering Models (Artech House Computer Science Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unique perspectives on software engineering risks	When I first read this book in 1997 I thought it was interesting, but quirky.  When I recently re-read it I had the benefit of four more years of experience and more scars from grappling with many of the issues that this book addresses. The 12 chapters in this 225-page book cover a spectrum of issues and factors that most books on software engineering risk management only lightly touch upon or overlook completely.<br />The chapters are sequenced as follow: 1-Introduction, 2-Industrial Espionage, 3-Software Engineering, 4-Software Metrics, 5-Security, 6-Process Maturity Models, 7-Asset Valuations, 8-Security Threats, 9-Security Controls and Tests, 10-Safeguards, 11-Economic Analysis, and 12-Reiterative Processes.<br />Chapter 2, Industrial Espionage leaps out at you and tells you that this is not a run-of-the-mill SW risk book.  If the risks are not obvious, consider the threats to intellectual property that can manifest themselves when development is contracted out or contract labor is used to augment an in-house development team.  If this book goes into a second edition I hope the author also includes patent issues as well, because the book was published in 1996 and since them two significant legal cases (State Street Bank vs. Signature Finance Group, Inc. [1998] and AT&amp;T vs. Excel Communications, Inc. [1999]have set precedents that add further to this particular category of risk, and may merit a separate chapter on patent risks.<br />Each of the other chapters exposes risks--some obvious, and some not-so-obvious--inherent in software engineering models and their associated processes. Bear in mind that while this book introduces quantitative methods, it is no substitute for a book on software engineering risk management if you are new to the topic.  The reason is this book covers the subtleties and often overlooked aspects, but is not an introductory text on the subject.<br />My favorite chapters are 4 (software metrics), 67 (asset valuations) and 11 (economic analysis) because those are areas in which I am interested.  I also liked chapter 6 (process maturity models) because it exposes risks that need to be considered if you are in the process of selecting or implementing one of the models (CMM, SPICE, etc.).<br />Overall, this is a useful and interesting book if you have a great deal of prior experience in software engineering, SQA or process implementation.  My only complaint--and it's minor--is Chapter 5 (Security) should have been grouped with the related chapters (8, 9, and 10). If you fall into the audience I cited above you'll benefit greatly from this book.analysis) because those are areas in which I am interested.  I also liked chapter 6 (process maturity models) because it exposes risks that need to be considered if you are in the process of selecting or implementing one of the models (CMM, SPICE, etc.).<br />Overall, this is a useful and interesting book if you have a great deal of prior experience in software engineering, SQA or process implementation.  My only complaint--and it's minor--is Chapter 5 (Security) should have been grouped with the related chapters (8, 9, and 10). If you fall into the audience I cited above you'll benefit greatly from this book.	2001-09-13
1841468:US	53037408	R1K1MCERGGK7J	0966143787	154478214	e-Patent Strategies for Software, e-Commerce, the Internet, Telecom Services, Financial Services, and Business Methods (with Case Studies and Forecasts)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Legal and strategic advice that is invaluable	When considering this book be aware that it is a supplement to the author's book titled &quot;Patent Strategies for Business&quot; to which frequent references are made.<br />That said, this book is still a valuable resource without &quot;Patent Strategies for Business&quot;, which I have not read. What I like about this book is the number of real and hypothetical case studies, with well written legal analysis interwoven into the narrative.  Much of the book is written in the ponderous legalese you'd expect from such a book, and this is necessary to ensure that there is no ambiguity communicated when legal points are made. However, there is also a lot of plain talk and common sense imparted, which makes this book readable by lay persons.<br />I personally gained a lot of excellent information from the book, including the fact that patents can be driven by legal as well as technology and marketing strategies.  What this means is existing products can be modified with the advice of patent attorneys to be patentable and a part of a company's patent portfolio.  This is an interesting and unique approach, and can (and should) be the basis for increasing a company's value.<br />Also excellent are the chapters that address updating existing products and services for the Internet, making them possibly patentable, and chapter 8's excellent set of steps for intellectual property audits.<br />Overall, with or without the primary book (&quot;Patent Strategies for Business&quot;), this is must reading for any business, small or large, that wants to capitalize on potential intellectual property assets to increase their net worth and value.  It is also an excellent and thought-provoking read for strategic planners.  I rate it at five solid stars for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the plethora of ideas the book generated and the clarification of some issues and factors related to services patents that I was researching.	2001-09-12
1842128:US	53037408	R1IE7U57SSYFRH	0201704854	100012931	Component-Based Software Engineering: Putting the Pieces Together	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A definitive reference on the subject	This 818 page collection of 42 papers and articles is a definitive work on component-based software engineering.  Regardless of your area(s) of interest, there is probably a chapter that addresses it.  More importantly, each chapter is written by a top expert in their subspecialty.<br />Instead of giving a chapter-by-chapter description, I am going to cover the chapters that I found useful.  To begin, Part II, chapters 1 through 3 gave me a quick primer in software components and highlighted the need to think in a different frame when dealing with component-based development.  If you are new to CBSW then the 48 pages devoted to the basics are worthwhile reading.<br />Part II's five chapters on making a business and technical case for components is outstanding and the authors cover every facet.  I found Part III, which covers software engineering practices, particularly useful.  The value to me was the status of CBSW engineering on a global scale because I am currently providing consulting services to an India-based company that specializes in components.  For this reason I also found Part IV's eight chapters on managing component-based software systems especially valuable.<br />The real eye-opener [for me], however, was in Part VIII, which devotes four interesting chapters on aspects of legal and regulatory issues as they related to software development as a discipline, and component-based software engineering specifically.  In particular, chapter 38 on software component standards and certification was enlightening. I was also enlightened by chapter 39's fascinating discussion on commercial law applicable to component-based software, and the effects of the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act (UCITA) on component-based software development and marketing.<br />This is an excellent book that covers the entire landscape of component-based software engineering and, although is a weighty 818 pages, is not difficult to read through.  Each chapter is really a paper or article, so each is standalone.  If you are dealing with off-shore development in any way, the book is especially valuable, and if you are doing CBSW in-house, the key differences between this approach and other development approaches are highlighted and will give you sufficient information with which to approach CBSW intelligently and effectively.aper or article, so each is standalone.  If you are dealing with off-shore development in any way, the book is especially valuable, and if you are doing CBSW in-house, the key differences between this approach and other development approaches are highlighted and will give you sufficient information with which to approach CBSW intelligently and effectively.	2001-09-11
1842659:US	53037408	R3RNYY6M39PLX6	0273656228	784124538	Ecosystem: Living the 12 Principles of Networked Business	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful Tool for Strategic Planning	This book provides twelve principles for successful e-commerce.  The principles are the synthesis of keen observation and deep thought, and are presented in a dispassionate, objective manner.<br />The principles themselves are divided among four stakeholder groups that form the ecosystem.  &quot;Ecosystem&quot; is an appropriate analogy because each stakeholder group has a different set of needs, yet all stakeholder groups are interdependent in the value chain.  The principles are each presented in a consistent format - presentation of the principle, two case studies each from the supplier's perspective giving a supplier profile, an interview with the supplier and showing the principle as it applies to the customer, and an executive summary of the principle.<br />Stakeholder and principle groupings are:  Business-to-Shareholder (learning and planning principles), Business-to-Employee (system, network and security principles), Business-to-Business (payment, buying, supplier and inventory/logistics principles), and Business-to-Customer (selling, customer and personalization principles).<br />By dividing the principles and focusing on stakeholders groups the authors have provided a systematic and structured template to apply to an e-commerce strategy and associated tactics.<br />What I like about this book is the utter lack of hype or hyperbole, and the presentation of each principle in a consistent manner.  I also like the careful selection of the case studies, each of which highlights the principle to which it is associated.  Finally I applaud the authors for their straightforward writing, which makes this book highly readable (even at nearly 400 pages it can be read on a day off or on a coast-to-coast flight).  What impresses me, however, is the research and deep thought that the authors put into this book and the care with which they structured and sequenced the information.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone involved in strategic planning, or who wants to understand the complexities of modern supply chains within the context of e-commerce. The keys to success are between the pages of this outstanding book.nts to understand the complexities of modern supply chains within the context of e-commerce. The keys to success are between the pages of this outstanding book.	2001-09-11
1847463:US	53037408	RGM7XAY2V1WDH	0471371998	236941012	Visualizing Your Business: Let Graphics Tell the Story (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Invaluable collection of business tools	This book is an encyclopedia of business graphics. It provides 101 different types of charts and graphs, and is organized based on how and when the chart and graph types are appropriate.  The organization is Tracking, Variances And Comparisons, Presentation, Schematics And Maps, Organizing Data/Information, Probability, Prediction And What-If, Strategy, Financial, and Marketing.<br />I frequently use charts to display data and considered myself an expert; however, I discovered new chart and graph types, such as web maps and Marimekko graphs, that I had never before encountered.  It would be an understatement to say that this book has significantly expanded my graphics vocabulary.<br />What I especially liked, in addition to the wide array of charts, is the advice on effectively using them.  Although the writing is terse, each chart is discussed in a consistent format.  The accompanying CD ROM adds even more value to this book because 26 of the tools are provided in either PowerPoint, Excel or Acrobat format.  This allows you to tailor and use preformatted charts and graphs instead of having to create them from scratch.	2001-09-06
1847844:US	53037408	R3ES93P7DDIEE2	0849323665	552301059	Software Engineering Processes: Principles and Applications	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Quantitative approach to process selection	This book provides a reference model called SEPRM (software engineering process reference model) against which the major capability and quality models can be quantitatively compared.<br />The models compared in the book are: ISO 15504 (SPICE; Software Process Improvement Capability Determination), CMM (SEI's Capability Maturity Model), Bootstrap (European Software Institute) and ISO 9000-3. What makes the book valuable is the methodical, quantitative manner in which each of the models can be compared using a process algebra against the author's software engineering reference model.  This allows organizations that are striving for software engineering process improvement to make objective decisions regarding which of the models addressed in this book is the best fit for their business model, organizational culture and market.<br />Given that each of the four major capability and quality models discussed are internationally recognized, each with strengths and weaknesses, the decision making process set forth in the book can be made based on fact instead of bias.<br />What I particularly like about the book is the complete and deep understanding I gained about SPICE, CMM, Bootstrap and ISO 9000-3.  I was quite familiar with each before I read the book, but the insights I gained about measurable strengths and weaknesses of each approach compared to the SEPRM were illuminating.  Moreover, I learned a lot from dissecting the SEPRM itself, leading to an understanding of process modeling independent of software engineering processes.  This in itself makes this book valuable to those of us who design and implement processes in environments where there are competing standards.	2001-09-06
1848190:US	53037408	R5R3PVCJ6C7TA	0130868264	149426396	Successful Software Development (2nd Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Blends theory and real-world - thorough and easy to read	Rare is a technical text that can serve as a real world reference for practicing professionals as well as a college-level text, but this outstanding book manages to completely satisfy these two audiences.<br />The authors have structured the book's contents along the lines of a sequential life cycle; however, they are not promoting the classic waterfall development approach - just presenting processes and procedures in a logical order. The chapters can be read in sequence or you can skip around without getting lost. The book starts with a chapter on business case development, followed by chapters on project planning, software systems development, change control, product and process reviews, measurement, cultural change, and ending with a chapter on process improvement planning.<br />What I like most is the book starts with a strong emphasis on making a business case, followed by an in-depth look at project planning. These PM practices are essential to organizations seeking CMM Level 2 and above. I also like the way the book is illustrated because the processes and concepts depicted in the 200 illustrations distill the complexities of software engineering into easy-to-understand process areas.<br />This book will align nicely to SPICE, CMM, Bootstrap and ISO 9000-3, making it an excellent reference for mature organizations. I strongly recommend it to serious practitioners who are committed to mature practices. I also think it would be an excellent college-level text because it shows how the theoretical aspects of software engineering can be used in the &quot;real world&quot;.	2001-09-06
1856021:US	53037408	R1P5QYVM86CVDX	0205261051	900619737	Infographics: A Journalist's Guide	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not only for journalists!	Although written for journalists, this book is also a valuable resource for consultants, technical writers and business professionals who use graphics to augment reports, findings and recommendations, and manuals.<br />The section titled &quot;Principles of Graphic Presentation&quot; provides valuable insights into how to effectively and aesthetically present information that is an accurate portrayal of the facts, concepts and processes about which you are writing.<br />I personally focused on chapters 3 (Chart-Based Graphics), 5 (Charts Without Numbers) and 7 (Illustration-based Graphics) because of their direct applicability to my profession - IT consultant. In particular, the chapter on chart-based graphics was extremely useful because the wrong chart type actually hampers communication of statistical and numerical information. I appreciated the straightforward advice on selecting the best chart type for the underlying data and how to present it in the most effective manner. I also liked chapter 8, Errors and Inaccuracy, which contained useful pointers on how to avoid common problems with charts and graphic portrayal of information. This book is an excellent addition to any writer's library, and especially so for those of us who need to ensure accuracy and presenting the clearest message to readers. I highly recommend this book and rate it at 5 stars.	2001-08-30
1859221:US	53037408	R1HGM1PP4QHC0V	0521790409	98288053	Design Patterns in Communications Software (SIGS Reference Library)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Long overdue - excellent resource	This book is divided into small- and large-collections of design patterns, and experience reports, all of which comprise an important body of work supporting one of the most demanding development environments. The patterns that I found most valuable, as well as most applicable to any communications-based architecture are: fault-tolerant telecommunications system patterns (the frameworks that can be mined from the patterns can be tailored to just about any kind of system), and call processing patterns (again, these are applicable to systems outside of the telecommunications domain because they distill complex interrelationships, events and processing requirements into coherent patterns that can be employed in systems that are equal in scope and complexity), and patterns for logging diagnostic messages. In addition, the experience reports in Part III are incredibly valuable to any developer or development organization because they give insight into some of the most challenging problem/solution sets and lessons learned that you're likely to encounter. My favorites are: managing change with patterns, OpenWebserver, and applying design patterns to flexible configure network services in distributed systems. Given the movement towards M-Commerce, extending the enterprise applications suites to PDAs and web-enabled phones, the design patterns will have direct- and indirect-applicability to organizations developing for these environments. Of course, in the telecommunications industry these patterns are directly applicable across the board. This is an important work that provides the collective knowledge and experience of some of the telecommunication industry's best and brightest. For the intended audience and the secondary audiences that I cited this book is one of the most valuable resources a development organization can acquire.	2001-08-28
1860180:US	53037408	R11DGZJ6Y6N55Q	0814406009	749606804	Financial and Process Metrics for the New Economy	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An invaluable resource	This is an invaluable book for business consultants, executive management, process analysts and IT professionals. Part I provides keen insights about the subtle and not-so-subtle differences between today's economic situation that has been changed dramatically by the Internet and e-commerce, and the &quot;old&quot; economy that is characterized by bricks and mortar and traditional distribution. The heart of this book is Part II, which provides metrics and indicators that need to be considered in today's competitive environment. In particular, the process metrics and transaction cycles that the author provides need to be carefully considered because they represent realities of competitively doing business in an e-commerce setting. This material will directly benefit process analysts and business process owners who are tasked with realigning their operations with systems that support e-commerce. Moreover, this information will also provide a solid foundation for IT analysts and architects who need to understand the business and functional requirements of systems they will be designing to support e-commerce. Another benefit that this book will provide is a method for performing an accurate cost/benefit analysis of any system or reengineering initiative that is undertaken to support business and IT alignment for e-commerce. I strongly recommend augmenting this excellent book with &quot;Internet Commerce Metrics and Models in the New Era of Accountability&quot; by Sri Jagannathan, which is a compendium of models and metrics that complement and validate the information in this book.	2001-08-28
1884259:US	53037408	R1WBU7V0FWUELO	0130274070	602960881	Software Architect Bootcamp	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Poorly edited but lives up to title	The title of this book is appropriate because bootcamp is an intense indoctrination of fundamental skills and discipline.  Bootcamp prepares recruits for the real world in which they are further trained in a specialty and become part of a team that has a shared mission.<br />In the case of software architecture, this book's approach to bootcamp is narrow in that it focuses on component-based architecture instead of a more general and encompassing treatment of this aspect of software engineering.  Despite the narrow focus, this book covers some important fundamentals that will serve the new or aspiring architect well in his or her career path or job.<br />What I like most about the book is that it's independent of vendors and products.  The foundation is, instead, based on standards and methods that are important to the discipline of software engineering in the component-based development domain.  An excellent example is RM-ODP (Reference Model for Open Distributed Processing), which allows you to decompose an architecture into viewpoints to examine specific dimensions of requirements.  Even if you do not adopt RM-ODP, the paradigm is a great foundation for architecture.  Moreover, the Unified Modeling Language (UML)is placed into context with respect to architecture. Finally, although I personally believe CORBA has some problems, the mechanics and concepts are solid foundation material for understanding object request broker infrastructure as one building block of an architecture.<br />There are some things I do not like about the book.  The oscillations between high- and low-level details are akin to a roller coaster and it's disorienting to a reader who is intent on learning the basics of architecture.  The lack of good editing makes the book read like a patchwork instead of an &quot;intense indoctrination.&quot;<br />Editing and writing problems notwithstanding, this book is a worthwhile (if ponderous) resource on an important aspect of software architecture for the new practitioner.  Although the focus is on component-based development, the fundamentals can be extended into a more general view of architecture that will prepare the architect for his or her specialization in the real world.for the new practitioner.  Although the focus is on component-based development, the fundamentals can be extended into a more general view of architecture that will prepare the architect for his or her specialization in the real world.	2001-08-09
1885044:US	53037408	R3NYJAMUKHCUDK	189263709X	967002539	Visual Language: Global Communication for the 21st Century	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A seminal work for the right audience	This is not a book on layout and design, so if you are in that segment you will probably not like this book.  The author's intent is to develop a visual approach for conveying information.  The approach itself is a combination of pictures and words structured in a format similar to a comic strip or storyboard.  This approach has merit, although it breaks many layout and design rules for aesthetics. This probably accounts for the wide chasm that divides the previous reviewers.<br />Regardless of whether you buy into the entire approach the main value of this book lies in the education you will receive in the effective use of shapes and images to convey meaning. Prior to reading this book I used intuition, previous experience and a lot of examples when designing documents that relied heavily on graphics.<br />I came away from this book with the following: (1) a clear idea of how to integrate words, images and shapes to effectively communicate ideas and concepts. (2) Cogitative aspects of certain shapes and forms, singularly or in combination, as metaphors for time, speed and other qualities that you want to impart. (3) How to effectively use space in a diagram to convey information - the chapter on the vocabulary of space, including distance, placement in frames and other spatial techniques was worth the price of the book to me.  (4) The ways to develop different diagrams using the same basic information served as an idea catalog for me and has greatly influenced my approach to information visualization.<br />An additional benefit I personally gained from this book is that it provided me with a solid foundation that makes Edward Tufte's beautifully produced and seminal books more understandable.  Before reading this book I struggled with Tufte's Envisioning Information, but did not comprehend many of the subtleties.  Armed with the knowledge gained from Visual Language I revisited Tufte's book and saw its beauty and genius. This has added the dimension of aesthetics to the way I produce graphics.<br />So, while this book breaks a plethora of rules in page layout and design, and the examples are not visually appealing, it does give an approach for effectively conveying information. If you want to understand how to effectively integrate words, images and shapes to convey highly technical concepts or information you will find some excellent ideas in this book, as well as gain an understanding of how they all fit together on a more fundamental level.  I give it five stars for the profound influence it has had on my thinking and recommend it to those of us who are not graphic artists.cs to the way I produce graphics. <br />So, while this book breaks a plethora of rules in page layout and design, and the examples are not visually appealing, it does give an approach for effectively conveying information. If you want to understand how to effectively integrate words, images and shapes to convey highly technical concepts or information you will find some excellent ideas in this book, as well as gain an understanding of how they all fit together on a more fundamental level.  I give it five stars for the profound influence it has had on my thinking and recommend it to those of us who are not graphic artists.	2001-08-09
1905468:US	53037408	R8E81VKGAVTJY	0750696664	397928015	Strategic IS/IT Planning (Datamation Professional Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Extraordinary book/Extraordinary Approach	One of the great mysteries of the universe is the fact that this book is now out of print. Out of the pile of IS/IT strategic planning books that I've bought and read this one stands out as simply the best the best ever written in my opinion. It would take a book to describe why I feel this way, so I'll just hit the high points.<br />First, the author's approach is not only exhaustively complete, but is based on proven methodologies.  The genesis of Mr. Tozer's methodology appears to be based in the U.K.'s CCTA guidelines for strategic planning, with a heavy emphasis on SSADM (Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method) and PRINCE (PRojects IN a Controlled Environment), which is the U.K. national standard for project management.<br />Highlights:  (1) Not once in this 549 page book was a product or technology mentioned, making the book as applicable today as when it was first written in 1996. Contrast this with methods that purport to address strategic planning, but are thinly disguised rationales for a particular technology or product.  (2)The author focuses on business requirements, dedicating a good portion of the book to discovering and prioritizing business imperatives that will drive how IS/IT evolves to support those imperatives.  (3) The approach is realistic, which is evidenced by one of many interesting techniques the author provides: P.E.S.T..  This is a modified Strengths/Weaknesses/Opportunities/Threats (SWOT)analysis that examines Political, Economic, Social and Technical dimensions of the enterprise.  (4) The book is structured in such a way that it follows project phases and stages.<br />I like the way the author uses quantitative methods for project estimating and cost forecasting, and the numerous questionnaires and checklists provided throughout the book. I also like the excellent illustrations that depicted process flows, matrices, quantified data and comparisons - these added to the information that was provided in the body of the book.  Also valuable is the nearly 100 pages of appendices, which include sample work plans, checklists and sample deliverables.<br />It you want to adopt an IS/IT strategic planning methodology or a framework based on a business-focused approach this is the book to get.  Even the most experienced consultant will learn a few new techniques, and those who are new to IS/IT strategic planning will learn how to do it the right way.  Five stars and my fervent hope that this outstanding book will be resurrected with a reprinting. Until then it will be worth the time and effort it takes to track down a used copy.valuable is the nearly 100 pages of appendices, which include sample work plans, checklists and sample deliverables.<br />It you want to adopt an IS/IT strategic planning methodology or a framework based on a business-focused approach this is the book to get.  Even the most experienced consultant will learn a few new techniques, and those who are new to IS/IT strategic planning will learn how to do it the right way.  Five stars and my fervent hope that this outstanding book will be resurrected with a reprinting. Until then it will be worth the time and effort it takes to track down a used copy.	2001-07-25
1905872:US	53037408	R1BCMDVAUASRYK	0782124275	746408255	SAP R/3 Implementation With ASAP : The Official SAP Guide	Books	4	7	7	N	N	High level, some weaknesses	This is a high-level view of an R/3 ASAP implementation.  It is too light for detailed planning, but does cover the implementation process sufficiently for project managers and implementation team members new to the SAP R/3 environment.<br />Strengths:  The author does an excellent job of explaining the R/3 environment and the ASAP implementation approach.  Each chapter contains useful advice, and the way the information is presented will make the development of a work breakdown structure and project plan a fairly straightforward task. It is clearly written and well illustrated, and provides complete coverage of the implementation, albeit at a high level.  I like the fact that post implementation requirements are addressed, which is something that is unfortunately not considered until too late in a project.<br />Weaknesses: This book begs for checklists, an example work breakdown structure and end-to-end project plan.  I did not like the superficial way security planning was addressed - the information provided in the chapter devoted to that topic is so generic as to be useless.  Since the book is aimed at guiding architects, administrators and technical members of the implementation project team the accompanying CD ROM lent no value to the book because sample test questions for SAP certification have nothing to do with an ASAP implementation. The CD ROM's storage could have been put to much better use had checklists, project plan templates and other ASAP deliverables been provided instead.<br />Overall this book is not as valuable to its intended audience as it is for project planners and managers.  It can be used as a valuable reference for developing an RFI or RFP for an ASAP implementation.  It can also be effectively used as a training guide to prepare an IS/IT department for an implementation because it does give a complete picture of what needs to be done, and to an extent, why. It merits 3.5 stars in my opinion, but I'll give it the benefit of 4 instead of 3, which are my only rating choices., which are my only rating choices.	2001-07-25
1905873:US	53037408	R2S1TJTT6P4EDM	0201711141	72154320	White-Hat Security Arsenal: Tackling the Threats	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Foundation Material for Network Threat and Exposure Analysis	If you are responsible for network security then you are at war with anonymous enemies who are probably attempting at this moment to find any holes in your security perimeter. In The Art of War, Sun Tzu advised, \\"Know yourself and know your enemy. You will be safe in every battle.\\" This book adds a modern dimension to The Art of War.  Think of it as a network security report that discusses your enemy's strengths and tactics.<br /><br />Part I of this book succinctly covers the basics of risk identification and some of the more common sources of risks.  It covers some of the more famous viruses and worms using a 5-part format for each of the ten examples that I particularly liked:  (1) What it hit and what it did, (2) how and why it worked, (3) the consequences, (4) how we recovered and (5) lessons learned. Yes, the incidents are old, but the same pattern keeps resurfacing. The \\"How and why it worked\\" part of each discussion was particularly interesting, and is the cornerstone of why the author's format provides a wealth of information from which a model emerges. The five-part structure is an excellent template for maintaining profiles of threats as they are reported by CERT CC or your preferred source of security incident information.<br /><br />The remainder of the book covers (Part II) storing data securely. The chapter on secure backup is particularly good, (PART III) secure data transfers. Contains a treasure trove of information on cryptographic vulnerabilities and how to mitigate or avoid the associate risks, (Part IV) protecting against network threats.  Chapters in this part give some excellent defensive strategies, and (Part V) commerce and privacy.  The credit card discussion is must reading for anyone who makes or accepts credit card payments over the web; the discussion on privacy is also must reading).<br /><br />This book will provide you with intelligence on your enemy. You may never know who that enemy is, but understanding their strengths, weapons, and tactics will give you a fighting chance.  The reality is you need to be connected to do business, which means you will always be on the defensive, \\"White Hat Security Arsenal\\" will help you build a strong defense.<br /><br />Five stars for filling a void in the network security body of knowledge.and tactics will give you a fighting chance.  The reality is you need to be connected to do business, which means you will always be on the defensive, \\"White Hat Security Arsenal\\" will help you build a strong defense.<br /><br />Five stars for filling a void in the network security body of knowledge.	2001-07-25
1906454:US	53037408	R2MI54IIXCW33U	0130992356	306016956	Task Scheduling in Parallel and Distributed Systems (Prentice Hall Series in Innovative Technology)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thorough, clearly written and still up-to-date	You can summarize the role of any operating system as a queue manager, which makes scheduling the most important component.  Scheduling in single-processor or single-system environment, done right, is elegant.  Crafting *elegant* scheduling algorithms for multi-processor, parallel-processing or distributed systems is another matter entirely.  This book provides the foundation of knowledge and techniques for such an undertaking.<br />What sets this book apart from other highly technical tomes on narrow topics is the fact that it's extremely well organized, is clearly written and has illustrations that closely support the concepts set forth.  The algorithms provided epitomize elegance in coding and efficiency.<br />The book is organized into chapters that are aligned to a scheduling taxonomy as follows:  Chapter 1 is the root, and discusses the classical scheduling problem and a general model of a scheduling system.<br />Deterministic scheduling in the Multiple Instruction Multiple Data (MIMD) family with precedence relations among tasks is the topics of chapters 2 through 6 and 10 through 13. Optimal algorithms are covered on chapters 2, 3 (without communication) and 4 (with communication).  Chapters 5, 6 and 10-13 cover heuristics.<br />Chapter 7, again in the deterministic family, is devoted to single program multiple data (SPMD) scheduling, while non deterministic scheduling is covered in chapters 8 (static) and 9 (dynamic), with coverage of hybrid non deterministic algorithms given in chapters 8 and 10.<br />Scheduling with no precedence relations (i.e., allocation) is the topic of chapter 14.<br />This is one of the best books on scheduling that I've read.  It goes much deeper than books on operating system design and is surprisingly better written than most I've read, including Comer's and Tanenbaum's popular works.  If you want to understand the complexities of parallel scheduling I highly recommend spending the time and effort to track down a used copy of this book and use it as a starting point.is book and use it as a starting point.	2001-07-24
1907565:US	53037408	R2MHG8JTQK3EB1	0761517502	337979423	Supporting Sap R/3	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Applies to any enterprise-critical application	Although this book was written for IT/IS professionals who will be tasked with post-implementation support of SAP R/3, the information in this book applies to any enterprise application. I am making this statement based on experience in launching and supporting a wireless telecommunications billing system, which is a completely different application than R/3. The point is most of the information contained in this book is solid and addresses service delivery and support for enterprise applications that work.<br /><br />Some key strengths of this book include: (1) a clear view applications delivery milestones of R/3 before it is ready to be released into production. This is provided in Parts II and III and shows what production support personnel needs to be aware of while the development and implementation is in progress. I especially liked the chapters on stabilizing the application and preparing for hand-off into production. Also, the chapter on building a support domain was filled with excellent information that embodies best practices in service support. (2) Part IV, Supporting the live environment, is specific to SAP R/3, but can be used as a model for support processes for any ERP system (Baan, PeopleSoft, etc.) because the major production support issues are addressed. The best chapters in this section cover job scheduling (often overlooked, but can wreak havoc with meeting service level objectives), transaction and performance support and disaster recovery planning (another support area that is too often overlooked).<br /><br />If you are tasked with supporting SAP R/3 this book is essential. Other audiences for this book include: project managers who need to plan the cutover of R/3 into the production environment, help desk management, release managers and business systems analysts who bridge the IT/IS and user domains. If you are a consultant who works with any ERP package this book will provide you with a wealth of useful information to which you can apply to whichever application(s) you support. Finally, this book will also prove useful to any support organization that is tasked with service delivery and support of enterprise applications for which a third-party book is not available. I certainly could have used this book when I was supporting a wireless billing application.<br /><br />Highly recommended to the audience cited above and 5 stars for clear writing and information that is valuable beyond the scope of the book.to whichever application(s) you support. Finally, this book will also prove useful to any support organization that is tasked with service delivery and support of enterprise applications for which a third-party book is not available. I certainly could have used this book when I was supporting a wireless billing application.<br /><br />Highly recommended to the audience cited above and 5 stars for clear writing and information that is valuable beyond the scope of the book.	2001-07-23
1911036:US	53037408	R16CC7QEPKGO7J	0136143148	701406614	Information Technology Audit Handbook	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Addresses business and technology issues - RECOMMENDED!	This book provides a unique approach that blends traditional IT auditing with business goals and objectives. Using the auditing strategy that Mr. Dayton outlines you can develop a valid baseline of your IT operational posture and its alignment to company strategy and tactics.<br />In addition to the audit and alignment baseline, the information gained from an audit performed in accordance with the methods given in this book also forms a complete &quot;as is&quot; picture.  This is useful for determining where to put resources for improvement initiatives, or for determining if a complete reengineering of IT is in order. As I read through this book the strong emphasis on business issues outside of the boundaries of IT led me to conclude that a complete audit based on this approach should be a prerequisite for establishing a governance or program management office function.<br />The book itself is not exactly a page turner because the writing is somewhat dry.  However, the approach and the wealth of worksheets and checklists (also provided on the accompanying disk) compensate for this.  Among the parts of this book that I especially like are: (1) strategic business worksheets, which when completed and compiled will give a comprehensive picture of the company's business posture (it's unfortunate, but true, that this information will be a surprise to many IT departments), (2) Chapter 6 on evaluating new technologies, which takes a life cycle view of technology evaluation and selection, (3)Chapters 10 through 12, which cover recruiting, evaluating, managing and training technical personnel and working with consultants.  These chapters provide a clear and unbiased assessment for the HR side of IT.  The information here can also be used to develop policies, processes and procedures for human resource management, and will also provide a solid foundation if you elect to measure your organization against Software Engineering Institute's People Capability Maturity Model.<br />This book is an excellent resource for management and technology consultants, and larger IT organizations.  The worksheets alone are worth many times the price of the book, but the true value is the way the author integrates IT and business factors into a comprehensive audit method.  Highly recommended and earns 5 stars.This book is an excellent resource for management and technology consultants, and larger IT organizations.  The worksheets alone are worth many times the price of the book, but the true value is the way the author integrates IT and business factors into a comprehensive audit method.  Highly recommended and earns 5 stars.	2001-07-20
1919089:US	53037408	R1H1JD995P52IP	1580530192	102772050	Managing Internet-Driven Change in International Telecommunications	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unique survey of international trends	This is an up-to-date survey (as of July 2001) of how traditional telecommunications models are evolving because of the influence of the Internet. The author takes an international view, which is important because trends differ from country to country, and there are lessons to be learned about the cultural factors as well as the way markets for services have evolved and taken root.<br /><br />Although the author does not hesitate to get into details about technology and infrastructure, the main value of this book is the author's assessment of how the technology will evolve and converge into differentiated value-added services. His assessment is based on an array of complex interrelationships and factors, each addressed in individual chapters that are presented in the following sequence: understanding international telecommunications in an internet-driven/information economy (this introduction sets the theme for the entire book), past and present models in international telecom, developing models, technologies, international telecommunications and trade policy and U.S. telecommunications and trade policy. The final two chapters address private enterprise in telecommunications and developing trends.<br /><br />The two main audiences for this book are convergent service provider marketing executives and board members of major telecommunications service providers, especially those that are already offering an array of services to meet customer demands (at the consumer and business level). The former group will especially benefit because the theme of the book is strategic in nature and the trends, factors and issues will give a clear macro approach of where the industry is headed. Overall this book is unique in that it balances technology with policy and economy, and does so on an international scale. In some parts the author went too far (in my opinion) into technical detail, but he rectified this by bringing up issues that showed an astute understanding of complex changes taking place.ges taking place.	2001-07-14
1921098:US	53037408	R2N1SFU98SJZ4B	084930587X	785022841	Multi-Domain Communication Management Systems (Advanced & Emerging Communications Technologies)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Valuable information for interoperable network management	This book is a treasure trove to anyone involved in engineering and management of ATM/SDH networks, or in interoperability initiatives among providers of these networks. This is especially the case for TMN users.<br />WHAT: Description of the MISA (Management of Integrated SDH and ATM Networks) architecture and interfaces that was developed under the auspices of European Union R&amp;D activities called ACTS (Advanced Communications Technologies and Services). MISA was designed to demonstrate automatic exchange of management information between Network Operators for management of public broadband networks and services. The participants in this project represented major telecom providers in Italy, Germany, Finland, France, Switzerland, Greece, UK and Spain.<br />WHY: Provides an excellent description of end-to-end management of SDH and ATM networks in a multi-provider environment. Moreover, the architecture has been proven in European field trials and is TNM-compliant.<br />HIGHLIGHTS: Contains the complete MISA architecture with detailed descriptions of the major components, including:  XCOOP interface (configuration and fault management specifications for the interface between the MISA core operation system and remote ATM and SDH networks), QoS and routing specifications and inter-domain management, and the detailed design of the TMN-compliant MISA operation system. The four appendices cover the XUSER interface (MISA to service level), XCOOP (MISA to ATM/SDH), QATM and QSDH (MISA to ATM and SDH respectively).<br />This book is essentially the final deliverables from the MISA project (also provided on the accompanying CD ROM), and can serve as the foundation of interoperable, multi-provides management services.  More importantly, these services  will be compliant with initiatives already proven in Europe.  In view of the global nature of consolidation in the telecommunications industry this book can jump-start interoperability initiatives launched to consolidate networks supporting a merger or acquisition.networks supporting a merger or acquisition.	2001-07-13
1925139:US	53037408	R2VUKJT0YV4DY9	0387945687	634723433	ISO 9000-3: A Tool for Software Product and Process Improvement	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compelling reasons to read this book ...	If you're a U.S. company that is not doing international business you might wonder why even bother with ISO 9000-3. While I can make compelling arguments for and against software and technical services companies pursuing registration, my stance would be dependent upon a set of conditions.  With respect to applying the elements of ISO 9001 in accordance with guidelines for software development, supply and maintenance set forth in ISO 9000-3 I can only argue for.<br />The book:  The first three chapters are brief and take only 24 pages to set the context. Chapter 1 introduces ISO 9000 as an international standard, discusses the relationship between 9001 and 9000-3, and gives good advice on the semantics of 9001's &quot;shalls&quot; and 9000-3's &quot;shoulds&quot;. The next chapter provides an overview of software engineering and key elements in which 9000-3 will support. Chapter 3 discusses theory, concept, interpretation and critique of ISO 9000-3.<br />Chapter 4 comprehensively covers scope and overview, and provides a framework for the rest of the book.  The key areas discussed in this chapter are the quality system framework, life cycle activities and supporting activities. Taken together these areas encompass ISO 9000-3.  Chapters 5 through 23 are each devoted to a single area, giving you sufficient detail to understand the issues and factors.  What I like most is the way the authors skillfully describe the contents of ISO 9000-3 guidelines in a readable manner without introducing ambiguity.  Making specifications readable without introducing fuzziness or uncertainty is one of the most difficult aspects of technical writing and the authors manage this well.<br />An added bonus, and the reason I like this book so much, is the quality handbook that is provided in chapter 24.  Including the eleven attachments, each of which in an invaluable artifact itself, this chapter is 50 pages in length (about 20% of the book), and serves as one of the best examples of a quality manual you'll find.<br />So, why even bother? First, you do not need to pursue ISO 9001 registration to benefit from this book (and if you are, you need to get a book on the ISO 9000:2000 version to get up-to-speed).  If you are using the capability maturity model as a goal, the procedures given in this book map nicely to CMM process areas and practices.  Moreover, in the &quot;e&quot; world where supply chain management is one of the current buzz words, the focus of 9000-3 might be a good fit into your operational posture (whether as a developer/integrator or service provider) because ISO 9000-3 is slanted towards the customer-supplier relationship, whereas the CMM is more concerned with suppliers.  The real reason, however, for using 9000-3 guidelines is they will assure you of attaining repeatability in all of your key processes related to applications or service delivery, and will lay the foundation for any additional quality paradigm or framework you deploy in the future.ality manual you'll find.<br />So, why even bother? First, you do not need to pursue ISO 9001 registration to benefit from this book (and if you are, you need to get a book on the ISO 9000:2000 version to get up-to-speed).  If you are using the capability maturity model as a goal, the procedures given in this book map nicely to CMM process areas and practices.  Moreover, in the &quot;e&quot; world where supply chain management is one of the current buzz words, the focus of 9000-3 might be a good fit into your operational posture (whether as a developer/integrator or service provider) because ISO 9000-3 is slanted towards the customer-supplier relationship, whereas the CMM is more concerned with suppliers.  The real reason, however, for using 9000-3 guidelines is they will assure you of attaining repeatability in all of your key processes related to applications or service delivery, and will lay the foundation for any additional quality paradigm or framework you deploy in the future.	2001-07-10
1926511:US	53037408	RMWW4ZWK5I4GD	0471392405	62812747	OSS Essentials: Support System Solutions for Service Providers	Books	3	24	24	N	Y	Has potential to be great - lacks coherency &amp; focus	This could have been *the* definitive reference on operational support systems. The author's uneven treatment of the subject and tendency to frequently go off topic or emphasize peripheral systems while leaving large gaps in the main subject have reduced this book to merely mediocre.<br />The strong points:  the chapter on customer care and billing processes is remarkable.  Here is a list of things that caught my attention and make this chapter so valuable: (1) the customer care maturity model is well thought out and serves as an excellent benchmarking tool, (2) the customer analysis and acquisition is on the mark, and (3) the customer interface management process and associated diagram comprise an excellent model for OSS processes.  I also thought the way the author covered the problem handling process represents best practices, as does the section on SLA management.  This is the stuff OSS is made of and it's covered both well and contains ideas and models in which service providers will be interested.  The chapter provisioning and order processing is also strong and filled with excellent information for those who are seeking OSS-specific knowledge.<br />Weaknesses:  Not only does this book overemphasize the network operations, which is important, but not central, but the author manages to drop this information into unexpected areas throughout the book. An example:  Section 4.4 is an engrossing piece on the sales process that is succinct and filled with information, including tables and a diagram that reinforce the excellent information the author is imparting. Right in the middle of all this is a diagram that shows the use of a DMZ to separate intranets and extranets - not something anyone interested in sales processes cares about and is a big distraction.  This happens throughout the book. Also, I agree with the comments made by a previous reviewer about wasting page count on product-specific information.  This information needs to be moved to a web site where it can be maintained in an up-to-date fashion.  Ironically, the publisher does this for other books.  Finally, there are some major gaps:  (1) no mention of the TeleManagement Forum, which is a global non-profit organization that is devoted to OSS.  This organization has a technology integration map and numerous OSS-related processes that are De Facto standards in the OSS world, yet no mention of the organization and no mention of the wealth of material available that is directly related to OSS.  (2) Section 7.4, which addresses migration from an existing to new billing system, misses some key considerations, which could have been developed into a discussion of strengths and weaknesses.  For example, how do you segment and migrate subscribers?  By CSA? Bill cycle? Region?  Price plan? As the industry consolidates this particular issue keeps cropping up and a more in-depth treatment here is warranted.  (3)  No mention of TL 9000, which is an encompassing quality standard for telecommunications service providers.  A portion of this standard applies directly to OSS.<br />Overall, this book contains some of the best information about OSS that has been collected and compiled into a single book.  In fact, it's the only book on the subject. What is needed to make it great is a strong editor who understands OSS and who is not reticent about removing large pieces of superfluous material from this book.  More information about standards that are directly related to OSS should also be included.  If you work with operational support systems you really have no choice but to buy this book - I just hope that the next edition addresses the weaknesses.t can be maintained in an up-to-date fashion.  Ironically, the publisher does this for other books.  Finally, there are some major gaps:  (1) no mention of the TeleManagement Forum, which is a global non-profit organization that is devoted to OSS.  This organization has a technology integration map and numerous OSS-related processes that are De Facto standards in the OSS world, yet no mention of the organization and no mention of the wealth of material available that is directly related to OSS.  (2) Section 7.4, which addresses migration from an existing to new billing system, misses some key considerations, which could have been developed into a discussion of strengths and weaknesses.  For example, how do you segment and migrate subscribers?  By CSA? Bill cycle? Region?  Price plan? As the industry consolidates this particular issue keeps cropping up and a more in-depth treatment here is warranted.  (3)  No mention of TL 9000, which is an encompassing quality standard for telecommunications service providers.  A portion of this standard applies directly to OSS.<br />Overall, this book contains some of the best information about OSS that has been collected and compiled into a single book.  In fact, it's the only book on the subject. What is needed to make it great is a strong editor who understands OSS and who is not reticent about removing large pieces of superfluous material from this book.  More information about standards that are directly related to OSS should also be included.  If you work with operational support systems you really have no choice but to buy this book - I just hope that the next edition addresses the weaknesses.	2001-07-09
1927629:US	53037408	ROLCALQ6VRAS1	0750645040	662521272	IT Investment: Making a Business Case (Computer Weekly Professional Series)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Business case development done right - highly recommended!	The primary audiences of this book are: (1)IT governance boards for whom the summaries at the end of each of the eleven chapters will provide ample information, (2) program management offices, which can use this book as the basis for business case standards, policies and procedures, (3) upper IT management who will greatly benefit from the skillful blending of strategy and cost management, and who will also get excellent ideas about how to better support their business customers, and (4) project managers.  For the last group this book represents a valuable resource - PMs managing projects in accordance with the British standard called PRINCE2 will have a ready made reference for business case development, which is a requirement for the Managing Stage Boundary (SB) process, and those who are working within the U.S. standard defined by the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) will find that this book will greatly augment the scope knowledge area and associated processes.<br />Each chapter follows in a sequence.  Chapter 1 introduces the author's model and how it will benefit you.  Pay close attention here because chapters that follow require hard work and commitment from many stakeholders.  This means resistance, and you'll find the material here useful if you wind up in the odd position of making a *business case* for implementing a business case methodology.<br />Chapter 2 covers preparing a business case. I like the way the author breaks down the elements of an IT business case and how it's cast into a process. The next chapter discusses how to objectively evaluate a business case and is another highlight of this book. Strategy and analysis are blended in Chapter 4, which covers the business outcome.  This chapter has some interesting approaches, including the development of a macro model (with an example provided), and how this is decomposed into micro models that examine factors and assumptions from which to derive a quantifiable business benefit.  What makes the approach here so interesting is the relationships between and among the micro models are also carefully examined using a &quot;Meso&quot; model (this model type is commonly used to analyze complex physical interrelationships in weather forecasting). Common sense needs to be applied here - you will not use the entire array of techniques to support a minor project.  On the other hand, a strategic decision like web-enabling an enterprise or a high-value e-commerce initiative certainly should be subjected to the painstakingly detained process given in this chapter.<br />Stakeholders, strategic alignment of IT to business and technology issues are the topics of Chapters 5 through 7, each of which contains essential information for implementing the author's business case approach. Project managers will greatly appreciate the material in Chapter 8, which covers risk identification and management. I like the 3x3 IT project risk framework provided.  Chapter 9 is a thorough treatment of business case accounting (also known as cost/benefit analysis).  Here Mr. Remenyi dissects the topic with precision, covering cost items, estimate sources (cost and benefit), and a number of analysis techniques.  This is one of the best chapters in my opinion.<br />Chapters 10 and 11 are devoted to evaluating, weighing and prioritizing business cases, and how to effectively use business cases in conjunction with project management.  The latter is completely consistent with the PRINCE2 method I mentioned earlier.  The remainder of the book consists of a case study, and appendices that provide an extensive collection of questionnaires and forms, and a nicely done description of financial measures used in cost-benefit analysis.<br />It all boils down to whether or not you are serious about developing business cases and doing them right.  If you are this book is essential.  I give it five stars for thoroughness and the added value of more forms and checklists than I've ever seen collected between two covers.klists than I've ever seen collected between two covers.	2001-07-08
1927786:US	53037408	R3GEZO2J635FR6	1580530214	745508532	Workflow Modeling: Tools for Process Improvement and Application Development	Books	5	223	226	N	N	Comprehensive, fresh and, yes, exciting	Rarely do I get excited about books on workflow modeling.  I have a few good books on the subject, all of which provide solid approaches and most of which are well written.  This book stands out because it goes beyond merely &quot;solid&quot; or &quot;well written&quot; by giving one of the most comprehensive approaches to workflow modeling I've had the pleasure of reading.<br />First, like most books on the topic, none of the components of the approach are new.  What makes the approach refreshing is the way the authors take standard techniques and tie them together into a coherent process.  Second, this book can be used as a workbook during a workflow modeling project, and is well suited to this because of the numerous checklists and diagrams that will prove invaluable every step of the way.  Finally, this is the first book of its kind that incorporates use cases, making it invaluable to project teams that have standardized on UML (Unified Modeling Language)or wish to integrate an object-oriented approach into a workflow modeling project.  If you're not familiar with use cases I strongly recommend Writing Effective Use Cases by Alistar Cockburn (the best book on the subject in my opinion); UML Distilled by Fowler and Scott is an excellent introduction to that subject if it's new to you.<br />The approach is straightforward:  frame the process and define its scope, understand the existing process (if there is one), design the &quot;to-be&quot; process and develop use case scenarios.  I wish to offer one caveat at this point:  if you are reengineering a process that is seriously broken you might consider skipping the &quot;as-is&quot; process.  Understanding the existing process is useful if your goal is incremental improvement.  Reengineering efforts usually radically transform existing processes, making efforts to understand them both moot and wasted.<br />Some of the highlights of this book include the authors' clear definitions and way of decomposing complex systems into discrete steps and components. For example, they use a five tier view of processes that ensures you have a complete view of all issues and factors.  The views are: (1) mission, strategy and goals (I personally extend goals further into Goal-Question-Metric), (2)business processes, (3) presentation, (4) application logic and (5) data.  Note that the last three align nicely to a 3-tier client/server architecture.  This observation clearly shows how coherent the authors' approach is and how it can foster alignment of technology to business requirements.<br />I also like how the authors clarify the key issues in process design by pointing out six enablers that you need to account for during the analysis and design phase: (1)workflow, (2) technology, (3) human resources, (4) motivations and measurements, (5) policies and rules and (6) environmental constraints (facilities, external process capabilities, etc.). There is one minor point of disagreement I have between their workflow modeling technique and the one I use.  The authors use swimlane diagrams (also called Rummler-Brache diagrams), while I use deployment diagrams.  The difference?  Swimlane diagrams do not capture phases or cycles.  I always place workflows into the context of Entry Criteria-Task-Validation-Exit Criteria (ETVX), which is nearly identical to the TQM Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle.  I insist on ETVX because it allows me to spot missing validation points in an existing workflow, and ensures that I clearly define entry and exit criteria, as well as validation points in a &quot;to-be&quot; workflow.  Of course I am stating personal preferences - following the authors' approach verbatim will definitely result in a workflow design that is not only &quot;bulletproof&quot;, but will align information systems and business process almost perfectly.<br />This book is a gem.  It's readable, full of ideas and, with the incorporation of use cases into the approach, completely up-to-date with respect toIS/IT methodologies.  If you want a fresh, modern approach to workflow design this book is the only one that will provide it.to IS/IT methodologies.  If you want a fresh, modern approach to workflow design this book is the only one that will provide it.	2001-07-08
1928967:US	53037408	R1POEG3OTUI6VF	0873895096	260190025	Tl 9000: A Guide to Measuring Excellence in Telecommunications	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Clear explanation of an important telecom quality standard	This book is akin to the Rosetta Stone for decoding the TL 9000 quality management system.  TL 9000 is currently defined by two documents, both of which are available from Amazon: TL 9000 Quality Management System Requirements Handbook (Book 1, Release 3.0) and TL 9000 Quality Management System Measurements Handbook (Book 1, Release 3.0).  Like any other standards documents these are terse (the System Requirements Handbook is 100 pages and the System Measurements Handbook is 200 pages), and are written to be an unambiguous as possible.<br />While terseness and lack of ambiguity are qualities one would want in a standards document, they make for onerous reading when you're trying to understand the standard in the first place. This book  explains the TL 9000 standard, its goals and objectives, and its elements in a readable style that you'll appreciate if you've had to plow through the two handbooks cited above.  It also gives a good summary of the registration and accreditation process.<br />If you're researching TL 9000, but do not know exactly what it is, how it applies to you or whether or not you should buy a book on the subject the following may help.<br /> WHAT: TL 9000 is a quality standard for service, hardware and software providers to the telecommunications industry.  The standard is under the cognizance of the QuEST Forum (Quality Excellence for Suppliers of Telecommunications), which currently has 13 service provider and 101 supplier members.<br />TL 9000 Release 3.0 is aligned to ISO 9001:2000, so understanding that standard is also essential (I recommend ISO 9001:2000 Explained by Cianfrani, Tsiakals and West).  You can envision TL 9000 as a multi-layered model with ISO 9000 as the umbrella that provides the governing structure, with a set of common TL 9000 requirements below that are telecommunication-specific and govern hardware, software and service requirements.  Under the requirements layer is another layer of TL 9000 metrics that apply to hardware, software and services.<br />WHY:  If your company is one of an estimated 10,000 world-wide suppliers of hardware, software or services to the telecommunications industry being TL 9000 registered may make the difference between your company's continued success or eventual failure if you're not registered.dware, software and services.<br />WHY:  If your company is one of an estimated 10,000 world-wide suppliers of hardware, software or services to the telecommunications industry being TL 9000 registered may make the difference between your company's continued success or eventual failure if you're not registered.	2001-07-07
1929457:US	53037408	R3UT1IIR3MR5HX	0818677988	282400745	SPICE: The Theory and Practice of Software Process Improvement and Capability Determination	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great introduction to SPICE - includes valuable tools	This book is a collection of essays on SPICE (Software Process Improvement and Capability DEtermination), which is now an international standard titled ISO/IEC 15504. The book is divided into three parts: Part 1, which describes ISO software engineering standardization efforts; Part 2, which describes the ISO/IEC 15504 standard; and Part 3 , which is discusses the use of the SPICE document set in actual practice.<br /><br />Among the most important essays, each of which is a standalone chapter, are: Chapter 3 (Introduction to the SPICE Documents and Architecture) and 4 (The Reference Model), followed by Chapters 5 through 7, which cover the SPICE assessment model and assessments using SPICE. Chapter 11, in particular, is interesting in that it provides a Comparison of ISO 9001 and the SPICE Framework. For companies that are using ISO 9000-3 or TickIT as the basis of their software quality program will see how SPICE maps to this standard.<br /><br />Chapters 12 through 18 address various aspects of SPICE trials, including findings and case studies.<br /><br />The most valuable part of this book is the contents on the accompanying CD ROM, which contains a Microsoft Windows-based assessment tool and a complete set of SPICE version 1 documentation. The assessment tool is called SEAL of Quality SPICE Assessment Tool, and is easily worth the price of the book. It will allow you to perform quick assessments to benchmark your capabilities in accordance with SPICE criteria. The CD ROM also contains a related toolset called Strathclyde Process Visualization Tools, which allow you to visualize assessment data.<br /><br />If you're exploring SPICE as an alternative to CMM or as an adjunct to ISO 9000-3, this book is a good introduction. It's also a starting point for doing internal assessments and benchmarks (especially with the tools that come with the book), to determine your existing development capabilities and where improvements will be the most effective.	2001-07-07
1930267:US	53037408	R2RA6ROKQ5FUVU	0818671947	252377948	Software Engineering Risk Management (Practitioners)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Unique, effective approach to risk management	This book contains 170 information-packed pages that describe a comprehensive and effective approach to managing software development risks.<br />The approach is based on a just-in-time (JIT) strategy.  Key elements of this strategy include (1) strategic planning and operational planning, the former is focused on product-line based software and makes a distinction between the software under development being the product itself or a part of the product, and the latter is focused on project planning and controls; (2) early risk identification, and (3) parallel development. When this book was first published parallel development was a complex goal; however, with component-based development strategies the approach is ideal.  Perhaps the author was ahead of his time.<br />Some of the best chapters in this book are: Chapter 4 - provides excellent insights and advice on managing the strategic and operational elements of the JIT strategy, Chapter 5 - comprehensive list of software risk elements and Chapter 7 - another comprehensive list that covers risk metrics.<br />Chapter 8 describes the JIT method as it applies to each phase in the software development life cycle.  This chapter contains valuable tables that can be used as checklists in your own project, and is full of useful information that can be applied to project risk management regardless of whether or not you implement the JIT approach described in this book.  Chapter 9 shows how to apply the JIT approach to a project.  This chapter is short is really a brief summary of the software engineering risk model (SERIM) from which the JIT approach was derived. Chapter 10 is a collection of JIT examples that can easily be recast into patterns.  I especially like the way these examples clarify the information in preceding nine chapters.  I recommend that you refer to this chapter as you read through the book because there will almost certainly be an example that will illustrate any fuzzy areas.<br />This is one of my favorite books on risk management in general and software risk management in particular.  The information and approach are not limited to software engineering, although the book was obviously written for that technical domain.  I have borrowed techniques from this book and have successfully applied them in other kinds of projects, as I am sure you will.  I give it 5 stars and a strong recommendation.ite books on risk management in general and software risk management in particular.  The information and approach are not limited to software engineering, although the book was obviously written for that technical domain.  I have borrowed techniques from this book and have successfully applied them in other kinds of projects, as I am sure you will.  I give it 5 stars and a strong recommendation.	2001-07-06
1930369:US	53037408	R2HNBSQKKMUUC5	087389393X	356898315	Statistical Quality Control Using Excel with 3.5 Disk	Books	5	63	63	N	Y	Excellent way to learn Excel charting and SPC	This book does double duty by teaching the basics of Excel and basic statistics.  It starts with the assumption that you know nothing about Excel, which can be skipped if you are familiar with the product, then starts tying things together with a chapter on fundamental statistics using Excel.  From there the book devotes a foundation chapter on distributions, which is a nice refresher if you're a bit rusty, and next covers functions and data analysis tools that come with Excel 97 or higher that you're be using throughout the remainder of the book.<br />The remaining chapters thoroughly cover statistical process control charts (X-Bar, R, p, np, c and u), and process capability.  You'll learn much about SPC from this part of the book, as well as some advanced Excel charting techniques.  Also, the material with which you'll be working is provided on the accompanying disk, saving a lot of time by avoiding creating spreadsheets from scratch.<br />Pareto charts and Ishikawa (fishbone) diagrams are also covered, as well as advanced distributions such as binomial and hypergeometric, and excellent material and techniques for determining operating characteristics and power curves.<br />This is an excellent learning tool that has additional value from the accompanying spreadsheets that can be used on real projects with modification and expansion.  I use the spreadsheets as a basic library of templates, which have proven to be real time savers.  The book is clearly written and easy to follow, making it ideal for self-study.	2001-07-06
1930488:US	53037408	RT7SSXDF89GWB	0873893697	770711402	Understanding and Applying Value-Added Assessment : Eliminating Business Process Waste #H0934	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Often overlooked part of process design &amp; cost control	This book is a highly readable, informative approach to an activity that is often missing from process design, process improvement initiatives and cost analyses.  The premise is that processes consist of tasks or activities that either add value or don't add it.  The goal is to discover and eliminate the non-value adding activities, which, of course, saves money, reduces cycle time and improves efficiency.<br />The trick is discovering non-value adding activities and making sure that you don't misclassify a necessary task or activity as non-value adding, which causes its own set of problems.  This book steps you through the assessment process.  It does so in a straightforward manner and provides a wealth of tools and techniques along the way.  The first four chapters place value assessment into context with a chapter each devoted to business stakeholders, business processes, business process evolution and methods for improving processes.  These chapters are rich in content and cover the basics well.  The author makes good use of both page layout, illustrations and good writing to get you up to speed on the fundamentals of organization, process and value concepts that you need to know before proceeding with the analysis and assessment phases.<br />Chapters 5 through 7 provide procedures for performing the analysis phase, gives a well-defined framework for the analysis and step-by-step procedures for the value-added assessment process. Chapter 8 augments this with tools and techniques for quantifying the process time and cost elements.  This chapter provides process flows, calculations and tips and advice.  This chapter is also heavily illustrated and makes excellent use of tables, which removes any uncertainty or ambiguity.  One of the best parts of this book is the non-value added dictionary that is provided in chapter 9.  Every task or activity that is a possible non-value added step is listed in alphabetical order, ranging from &quot;Adjusts&quot; to &quot;Waits for&quot;.  There is a page devoted to each, which follows a specific format which is a nice template for adding your own activities and tasks.  The format includes a definition of the step, symbol used to represent it, category, an example, rationale for identifying the step as non-value added, synonyms, related actions and notes.  Not all steps provided in the book will be non-value add in all processes.  For example, in software engineering an inspection is one of the most effective quality assurance methods with a proven record for catching defects early in the development life cycle.  Because software development is usually a one-off process that produces a unique product inspections are warranted. Use your judgement here.<br />This book is unique and essential if you are developing processes, initiating process improvement or performing cost analysis.  It's exceptionally well written and should be considered more a tool than a book.or&quot;.  There is a page devoted to each, which follows a specific format which is a nice template for adding your own activities and tasks.  The format includes a definition of the step, symbol used to represent it, category, an example, rationale for identifying the step as non-value added, synonyms, related actions and notes.  Not all steps provided in the book will be non-value add in all processes.  For example, in software engineering an inspection is one of the most effective quality assurance methods with a proven record for catching defects early in the development life cycle.  Because software development is usually a one-off process that produces a unique product inspections are warranted. Use your judgement here.  <br />This book is unique and essential if you are developing processes, initiating process improvement or performing cost analysis.  It's exceptionally well written and should be considered more a tool than a book.	2001-07-06
1930761:US	53037408	R2JVBO9A0ESEK7	0912495219	438408197	Fundamentals of Project Performance Measurement	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Advanced techniques for PMs	Although the book's title contains the word &quot;fundamental&quot; this book really is about applying advanced techniques when using project management fundamentals.  If you have managed one or more projects in which you've employed earned value this book will provide you with valuable techniques with which to refine your PM skills.<br />This 119-page book is structured in a sequence that follows a typical project life cycle.  Chapter 1 is a brief introduction and chapters 2 through 15 are each a short monograph on a specific area as follows: understanding the project, organizing the project, scheduling, budgeting, establishing the baseline, detailed planning, measuring performance, accounting, data collection, estimating cost at completion, change control, baseline maintenance, external reporting and graphical representation of data.  Chapter 16 is an overview of the Cost/Schedule Control Systems Criteria (C/SCSC), from which earned value project management was derived.<br />Each chapter builds upon the preceding one and each contains a wealth of information that usually takes years of experience to accrue.  Two of the best chapters are data collection and change control.  The chapter on data collection provides some quick techniques for interpreting earned value in relation to budget and actuals.  The table that depicts this is almost worth the price of the book.  The chapter on change control contains a gem in the form of an example budget baseline log, which is a tool that you'll want to immediately incorporate into your next project.<br />Overall this is an invaluable resource for project managers and one that deserves a place on your bookshelf or desktop where you can get to it conveniently.  My copy is dog-eared and worn, and one of my treasured possessions.	2001-07-06
1931425:US	53037408	R12G9BSK37NEMB	0201604787	281199832	Software Configuration Management Strategies and Rational ClearCase(R): A Practical Introduction (Addison-wesley Object Technology Series)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Surprisingly informative on broader SCM aspects	I purchased this book specifically for information on ClearCase capabilities and features to support some project-related work.  I expected a cross between a white paper and sales literature.  What I got was a clear description of ClearCase and a relatively unbiased description of its features, how to effectively use it and how to employ it independently of a Rational-centric development shop.  The bonus, though, is the first 49 pages that give a well-written overview of SCM in general.  I also liked the chapter on the Unified Change Management Model, which seems to incorporate some best SCM practices and is full of ideas from which to borrow...<br />Chapter 4 is where the ClearCase-specific information starts and the author does an excellent job describing how the tool works, introducing Rational-specific terminology and concepts, and showing how the tool can be effectively deployed.  This was the information I was seeking when I bought the book and I feel like I got everything I wanted and more.  The clearly written text was augmented by equally clear illustrations, which allowed me to quickly absorb the material I needed.<br />This is obviously not an SCM book one would buy unless they needed to know about the ClearCase product. It is, however, an excellent overview and survey of ClearCase for anyone who needs to get quickly up-to-speed on the basics of the tool or is evaluating SCM tools and ClearCase is on their short list.<br />Overall this is a well-written book that is surprisingly unbiased.  The author did an excellent job with the entire book and earns 5 stars for sticking to the topic and taking care to make things clear (pun intended).	2001-07-06
1931623:US	53037408	RCTAO8M9CXS8V	0521641055	165130843	Measuring Computer Performance: A Practitioner's Guide	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great introductory text!	In a nutshell: nicely written introductory text that covers the basics of performance analysis.  It starts with an overview of performance analysis and associated techniques.  The subsequent chapters lay the groundwork by giving key concepts and techniques, and then segue into the techniques themselves.<br />Content and Organization: 278 pages comprised of 11 chapters, a glossary and two appendices of probability distributions and selected statistical tables.  Chapter topics are: (1) Introduction, (2) Metrics of Performance (what you should be measuring), (3) Average Performance and Variability (introduces statistical concepts and techniques related to computer performance analysis), (4) Errors in Experimental Measurements (good discussion of accuracy, precision and resolution, and the fundamentals of error quantification with which to validate your findings), (5) Comparing Alternatives, (6) Measurement Tools and Techniques, (7) Benchmark Programs (this chapter merits a book of its own), (8) Linear Regression Models, (9) Design of Experiments, (10) Simulation, and (11) Queuing Analysis.<br />This book requires some probability and statistics skills, but is a much gentler introduction to the subject than Raj Jain's classic, The Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis. There are two things I especially like about this book:  (1) it does not immediately launch into quantitative methods.  Instead, it introduces them in manageable chunks that will not intimidate a reader whose math skills are rusty.  (2) It includes design of experiments, which is a powerful tool that will also prove invaluable in capacity planning - the flip side of performance analysis.<br />If you've thumbed through other books on computer performance analysis and felt the learning curve was too steep or your math skills were not up-to-par, this book will give you the basics and begin you on a journey towards more advanced techniques. I highly recommend it as a first text on performance analysis and give it 5 stars for making this important discipline accessible to a wider audience.and give it 5 stars for making this important discipline accessible to a wider audience.	2001-07-05
1931814:US	53037408	R3GHGYLJDHC87E	020173723X	356159770	The CERT Guide to System and Network Security Practices	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Security Officer's Dream Come True	This book contains a security approach that is based on the collective experience and statistical analysis of the CERT Coordination Center. The contents of this book are authoritative and well structured.<br />Structure is based on a five layer (or step) approach to securing information assets that consists of 52 distinct practices.  The layers correspond to stages in a process that encompasses (1) hardening and securing assets, (2) developing and implementing detection and response practices [prepare], (3) intrusion detection, (4) intrusion response and (5) improve.  Hardening and securing assets consumes nearly the first half of the book.  The practices systematically address the essentials for securing servers and workstations, web servers and firewalls.  Every facet is addressed from configuration advice to specific exposures.  These are the minimum practices that need to be in place and if these practices are implemented and actively managed approximately 80% of common exposures will be eliminated.<br />The remainder of the book leads you through setting up intrusion detection and response practices (including an excellent set of steps and considerations for establishing policies and procedures), how to detect signs of intrusion and how to assess the impact of the intrusion and respond appropriately.  Two highlights are the appendices.  Appendix A covers in great detail some of the finer points of securing Solaris 2.x (you will need to tailor this information for HP/UX, Linux and AIX).  The reason Solaris is chosen is because it is one of the most widely used operating systems on the Internet.  Among the finer points are: installing and configuring Tripwire, SSH, Logsurfer, Spar and Tcpdump; understanding system log files, and writing rrules and understanding alerts for Snort.  URLs are provided to sites from which you can obtain the third-party security facilities, such as Tripwire, Logsurfer, etc. Appendix B is a concordance of practices and how they should map to a comprehensive security policy. This is especially valuable because you can check your own policies against each of the 52 practices to make sure all are covered in your security policy.<br />This book is an important work that is an essential reference for anyone who is responsible for security.  This responsibility extends beyond the role of security officer or team member into architecture, network operations and production support (to name a few areas that need to be closely involved).  The book will give you the foundation for an effective, responsive security program, but needs to be augmented by keeping up with trends and emerging threats and exposures.  To this end the URLs to CERT/CC and other security-related sites are a necessary adjunct to this book.  It merits 5 stars and my rare recommendation as a &quot;must have&quot;.map to a comprehensive security policy. This is especially valuable because you can check your own policies against each of the 52 practices to make sure all are covered in your security policy.<br />This book is an important work that is an essential reference for anyone who is responsible for security.  This responsibility extends beyond the role of security officer or team member into architecture, network operations and production support (to name a few areas that need to be closely involved).  The book will give you the foundation for an effective, responsive security program, but needs to be augmented by keeping up with trends and emerging threats and exposures.  To this end the URLs to CERT/CC and other security-related sites are a necessary adjunct to this book.  It merits 5 stars and my rare recommendation as a &quot;must have&quot;.	2001-07-05
1932435:US	53037408	RJD8FWOFNP8XI	0970395329	397317119	Network Administrator's Security Resource Guide	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good for small company LANs and desktop support pros	This book is an uneven collection of articles, tips and techniques that is more applicable to a PC-centric computing and desktop office automation.  It's a great resource for small companies or workgroup administrators, but is a bit too light for enterprise-wide security.  If you are the LAN administrator for a small company that uses consumer operating systems and applications, such as Microsoft's Windows family, you will find this book to be an invaluable source of information.  If you are responsible for security in a larger multi-platform enterprise, especially one that spans multiple locations and is dependent upon business-critical applications and e-commerce or ERP suites, you will probably find this book too lite and not slanted towards the issues that you need to address.  If you call into the latter group I strongly recommend CERT Guide to System and Network Security Practices by Julia Allen.	2001-07-05
1932528:US	53037408	R1Y0NGGV6QDWBO	0471015830	295186402	Systems Management for Information Technology and Software Engineering (Wiley Series in Systems Engineering and Management)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Coherent integration of system and software engineering	This book preceded the Software Engineering Institute's initiative to integrate the capability maturity models for software and system engineering and integrated product development into the CMMI by three years.  However, the approach provided by the author is remarkably similar to and consistent with the CMMI, which makes this book an excellent resource to anyone interested in that model family.<br />Chapter 2, which covers system engineering process life cycles is one of the most complete treatments I've read. In fact, this chapter is not strictly confined to SE life cycle models.  It also covers acquisition and product development life cycles, as well as those of R&amp;D, test and evaluation and software development.<br />What I most like about this book is the well thought-out and coherent blending of systems engineering factors and integrated product development into a software engineering approach.  Where the CMMI is more focused on key processes and practice areas, Mr. Sage provides implementation details and a large number of techniques.  I also like the strong emphasis on quality and organizational structure, which are discussed in depth in chapters 6 and 7.<br />Much of the underlying technical detail is quantitative, particularly in chapters 3 through 5, which cover risk management, metrics and cost assessments.<br />The CMMI notwithstanding, the real value of this book is the wide view of integrated system and software engineering, and the low-level details it provides on every facet of both disciplines.  This comprehensive book earns a solid 5 stars.	2001-07-05
1932687:US	53037408	R2L8EHZF1GVPCU	0201735008	62460928	CMMI(SM) Distilled: A Practical Introduction to Integrated Process Improvement (Sei Series in Software Engineering)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Succinct description of the CMMI's current state	This book will give you a jump on the integrated capability maturity model (CMMI) that is expected to be fully implemented in the Fall of 2003. This integrated model is based on the current CMM versions for software, integrated product development and systems engineering.<br /><br />Because the CMMI is still evolving there will be inevitable changes between information and details in this book and the final version. This book's organization and the clear descriptions of the existing source models from which the CMMI is derived will arm you with enough information to either plan a transition to the CMMI or evaluate the model as an implementation goal.<br /><br />The book starts with the rationale for the CMMI and a good description of how the source models integrate. This is followed by five chapters that dissect the CMMI. Areas covered include conceptual, structural and process area points of view. I especially liked Chapter 5, CMMI Representations, because it gives the clearest description of staged and continuous models. This is augmented in Chapter 9 by an excellent comparison of these two models, which discusses reasons for liking each model and for choosing one representation model over the other. There is also important material on assessments and how the CMMI is evolving that make this book important.<br /><br />If your company is currently using the CMM or considering it this book distills a great deal of SEI documentation into 335 pages and does a good job of describing the CMMI and summarizing the issues. While you will still have to keep up with the CMMI as it evolves, this book will get you quickly up to speed.	2001-07-05
1933677:US	53037408	R30XESRJH9J4BQ	1580530516	976245340	Internet Commerce Development	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Focused, no nonsense approach	Although this book is rich with details, it is too terse to be considered comprehensive.  The ideal audience, in my opinion, consists of (1) project managers who will be tasked with planning these systems, (2) development managers who need to organize their resources to produce systems that are rapidly evolving even before the first line of code is written, and (3) production support, which will be taking highly dynamic systems into production.<br />One thing stands out about this book - it begins with business requirements and makes them a central theme of the Internet Commerce Development Methodology (ICDM), which is the author's approach to e-commerce systems development.  The ICDM is the heart of this book.  It's a methodology that successfully marries business analysis and development, and also defines how the project should be organized.  It's a top-down approach with feasibility analysis and strategy at the top.  The next layer in ICDM is the process level, which is imperative for e-commerce initiatives, which will certainly change business processes.  This layer also requires a feasibility analysis, as well as process change, reengineering and transformation steps.  Next is the meta-development strategy that encompasses your component strategy, functional requirements, architecture, design and implementation.  Each element requires a feasibility analysis.  Stepping back and viewing the ICDM as a whole it looks a lot like a spiral life cycle approach. I am not sure that is the author's intent, but it can be construed as such, especially if you view the feasibility analyses checkpoints as risk assessments as well.<br />The entire process is evolutionary, and therefore the approach supports incremental delivery and implementation. In many respects it resembles the Rational Unified Process and could be easily aligned to a project that used that approach in e-commerce development.  Even of you are locked into a different methodology I strongly recommend this book because it has some excellent practices and will give you ideas that can be seamlessly incorporated into your approach.because it has some excellent practices and will give you ideas that can be seamlessly incorporated into your approach.	2001-07-04
1934311:US	53037408	R388Y60TEUH23O	0201546647	266794536	The Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Software Process	Books	5	70	70	N	N	Recommended for CMM-SW, not a book for exploring benefits	At one time this was the definitive text on the CMM, but is rapidly showing its age because of the new CMMI suite that the Software Engineering Institute is developing.  For reference the CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) is an effort to integrate maturity models for software, system engineering and integrated product development).<br />This book is the one that introduced the CMM to the masses and is what is now called the CMM-SW (SW=Software).  It is still a valid reference for software-only organizations from a key process area point of view. As such, it still has value to any organization that is striving to attain CMM level 2 or above.  If you're new to the CMM (and there are many who are), this the CMM is five levels of capability maturity, when chaotic organizations assumed to be at level 1.  It is not a methodology, so do not expect to find any &quot;how to&quot; information in this book.  What you will find in this book is a description of the CMM itself and its structure, and  key process areas that need to be in place in an organization for each level of the model.  Each key process area has associated key practices.<br />In a nutshell, the CMM is a benchmark. The key to achieving level 2 or above requires a commitment to perform.  This book will tell you what processes need to be in place, and what the key practices are for each process, but will not tell you which methods to use.  It's dry reading, but there is no ambiguity in the descriptions, which makes this book a valuable reference if you are involved in a company-wide CMM initiative.  If your goal is to explore the value and benefits of the CMM, then I recommend A Guide to the CMM by Kenneth Dymond as a better place to start.  Despite its age and the CMMI initiatives this book still merits 5 stars for those who are actually implementing the CMM for software.	2001-07-04
1934382:US	53037408	R1EQYNHO2BYFCK	1558604987	749359188	Practical Computer Network Analysis and Design (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Networking)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Network Design Done Right	In the vast body of knowledge dedicated to network design this book stands out as a single, shining example of how to do it right.<br />The approach given in this book is to focus on the larger end goal, providing services via the network, instead of the lower-level technical details.  This approach requires greater emphasis on requirements to which three chapters are devoted.  Mr. McCabe's treatment of  requirements gathering and analysis is among the best in literature and is consistent with best practices that are performed by other engineering disciplines.<br />What I especially like about this book, however, is the flow analysis that ensures you will produce a network design that has the following characteristics: (1) traceable to requirements, (2) focused on providing application response and network services to users, and (3) is a solid baseline for performance and capacity management of the network as it evolves.<br />If all networks were designed using the approach and techniques provided in this book service level management would be a less daunting endeavor.  This is a five star book that adds a true engineering methodology to network design.	2001-07-04
1934533:US	53037408	R2IADNKVH6X4FC	156592598X	73347053	Oracle 8i Internal Services: for Waits, Latches, Locks, and Memory	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Focused on a single topic and covers it exceptionally well	Steve Adams has collected and assembled a compendium of facts about a difficult aspect of Oracle: waits, latches, locks and meemory.  His clearly written explanations will not only provide DBAs with an in-depth understanding of how these fit into the overall scheme of Oracle's design, but also will allow them to troubleshoot and resolve problems that would exasperate all but the demi-gods.  Although the book would have benefited from a lot more than the two illustrations he saw fit to provide, his generous use of tables goes a long way towards making an obtuse subject clear.  I would have liked more examples than the outputs he uses to show results of queries, but the lack of illustrations and better examples did not prevent me from undertanding every topic presented.<br />My wishlist notwithstanding, this book merits five stars because it provides a wealth of information and knowledge that you just can't find elsewhere.  If you're an Oracle DBA you need this book.	2001-07-03
1934575:US	53037408	R2D8NG4W9AXDHH	0738412007	476233991	TCP/IP Tutorial and Technical Overview (IBM Redbook)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Surprisingly Readable and vendor-neutral	Differs from most IBM Redbooks in that the structure of the book is well designed and the writing is clear.  I also appreciated the way the team who compiled this book used well thought-out illustrations.<br />Although this book addresses TCP/IP from the perspective of IBM's operating systems, most of the book is vendor neutral (all IBM-specific implementation detail is covered in Chapter 14).  The authors cover the basics of TCP/IP, routing and layers. They also cover IP version 6, Quality of Service and other topics that I did not expect.  The strongest chapter is Chapter 11, which devotes 27 information-packed pages to availability, scalability and load balancing.<br />This book is a great addition to network operation center reference libraries.  It will serve network professionals, as well as developers who write TCP/IP application-layer utilities, well as a ready reference.<br />I only wish more of books in the Redbook series were as well written or illustrated.	2001-07-03
1934681:US	53037408	R3QS8CVZIZ5LHO	0970436300	475414677	The Web Testing Handbook	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Most complete book on web testing - best-of-breed	Of the growing number of web testing books that are being published this is the most complete, and the only one that I've read that tightly aligns testing to the development life cycle.  More importantly, this book addresses the realities of web development and testing, which are completely different from those of traditional systems.<br />Some of the key areas in this book that make it so valuable are: (1) Addressing the plethora of web models (B2B, B2C, intranet, Internet, etc.), each of which presents developers and testers with unique challenges. (2) Showing the vast differences between testing traditional code, which is typically in the form of binaries, and web code, which is in the form of mark-up languages and scripts.  An added wrinkle to web testing that is thoroughly covered here is graphics and font types.  Traditional testing does not dwell much on these areas, but web testing demands that these software configuration items receive considerable attention during test cycles.  (3) Covering every nuance of the one area that differs most from traditional testing compatibility.  The authors thoroughly cover issues and factors here, which are important because for web systems in the Internet you have no control over client configurations.<br />Other chapters in this book that those new to web testing need to carefully read include: navigation, user interaction and usability and accessibility. These are typically given little attention during test cycles of host-based and client/server systems, but are of paramount importance in web-testing.  One topic, readability, in Chapter 6 underscores this fact.<br />I especially liked the three chapters on performance, scalability, and reliability and availability.  These are areas that are usually lightly addressed in most testing books, but are covered in a great deal of depth in this book.  The chapter on post implementation was also particularly strong and emphasized the fact that web-based systems are, by their nature, dynamic from a configuration and change control point of view.<br />This book is best-of-breed. It's not only a &quot;must-read&quot; for testing professionals,. It will also provide web system project managers and developers with a wealth of ideas related to their roles, as well as operations and support people who need to also understand the role they have in web system quality assurance.nature, dynamic from a configuration and change control point of view. <br />This book is best-of-breed. It's not only a &quot;must-read&quot; for testing professionals,. It will also provide web system project managers and developers with a wealth of ideas related to their roles, as well as operations and support people who need to also understand the role they have in web system quality assurance.	2001-07-03
1935150:US	53037408	R1TP8NMCVLB99I	0471283878	176360917	Computer Operations Management	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An old friend that has aged gracefully	Although this book is showing its age it remains one of the very few available books on data center operations.  The foundation is three timeless concepts:  (1) data is a resource, (2) data processing (or in more contemporary terms, systems management) is a service function, and (3) data processing is a production business.<br />Despite the slant towards &quot;Big Blue&quot; platforms and operating systems and the non-automated processes provided in this book, there are still valuable practices that can be gleaned, given a modern facelift and incorporated into client/server and e-commerce operations.  For example, Section Two contains a wealth of information on achieving stable production processes that are as applicable in a modern data center as they were when this book was written.  The best piece in this section is on component failure analysis, which is one of the most cogent approaches to building a high-availability foundation that I've come across.  I also like the emphasis on problem and change management.  Although the processes are manual, they are well thought out and are a good model for a most up-to-date and automated solution.<br />The section on production controls is on the mark from the standpoint of process, but out of date with respect to examples.  However, you can glean a lot of information and ideas from the basics and build upon them using today's technology.  The fundamentals and concepts are sound.<br />Overall, this book is something of a paradox - on the one hand it is nearly quaint, and on the other it contains practices that I fear are being quickly lost, yet still sorely needed in order to effectively manage operations in a large enterprise.  I bought my copy when it first came out in 1989 and still refer to it from time to time.  Considering how many obsolete books that I've donated to local libraries while steadfastly refusing to give this one up. I'm strongly recommending it despite its age, but am giving it 3 stars because of its age.ge.	2001-07-03
1935399:US	53037408	REIIXES0EV4SN	0201379384	437122629	CMM Implementation Guide: Choreographing Software Process Improvement	Books	5	6	7	N	N	About overcoming politics and human nature - great advice	This book is not really about the technical aspects of implementing the key processes and attaining a specific level of maturity. It's about something much more difficult - overcoming organizational resistance to change.<br />The path to achieving capability levels 2 through 5 are well defined in other books.  Each process area and its requirements are well documented in Mark Paulk's authoritative book. From the technical perspective it may be cut and dried, and in a perfect world not populated by those illogical creatures called people Mr. Paulk's book is all you need.<br />Unfortunately people are not logical and a clearly laid out roadmap is not enough.  You quickly discover that the path to even CMM level 2 is fraught with perils that are strangely missing from the technical books on CMM.  Overcoming these perils are what Ms. Caputo's book is all about.  She describes techniques for overcoming the resistance to implementation.  Instead of rehashing what you need to implement in order to get to a specific level, she tells you how to accomplish the implementation part - the part that is not cut and dried.  She does this by relating her own experience, and I can assure you that if you're tasked with implementing CMM (or any other program or initiative for that matter) you can learn a lot about human and organizational nature from this book.  You will also learn a lot about what works when effecting change and how to counter the inevitable resistance you'll run into.<br />If you're looking for CMM technical and process-related information get The Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Software Process by Mark Paulk.  If you are actually responsible for implementing it get this book.	2001-07-03
1935827:US	53037408	R2QN2FCYZZ2Y4I	0072119993	436500105	Oracle 24x7 Tips and Techniques	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Overwhelming amount of information &amp; essential for 24x7	While this comprehensive book is a definitive and complete reference for Oracle DBAs who need to support mission-critical databases, it is also a key reference for developing a comprehensive high-availability posture in Oracle-centric enterprises.<br />This book focuses on making Oracle highly available and resilient, but also touches on related aspects, such as hardware, operating systems and networks.  What I particularly liked is the way the book begins, with an exceptionally well-written chapter on identifying your uptime requirements.  All of the material here applies to availability and reliability of enterprise-wide systems, not just Oracle.  In fact, Parts I and II of this book should be read by anyone who is responsible for implementing and managing a 24x7 enterprise regardless of whether they are a DBA because the information in the first two parts of this eight-part book will have the whole team (SAs, DBAs, network analysts and service delivery/support staff) using a common framework.<br />The remaining six parts span chapters 7 through 20 and are specific to Oracle.  There is an overwhelming amount of information here.  What makes getting through these chapters so hard is the fact that nearly every page has some important tip, fact or technique.  The sheer number of these, all of which are important, will consume two or three highlighters before you get to the end of the book<br />Overall, this book is essential for Oracle DBAs, and deserves a place in the library of every architect and operations manager in large 24x7 enterprises that use Oracle .	2001-07-03
1938661:US	53037408	R5HSP942K7OYU	0201702258	656176409	Writing Effective Use Cases	Books	5	99	105	N	N	Use cases done right - sensible and effective approach	Finally!  A book that corrects the numerous problems with use cases - or shall I say the mis use of use cases (no pun intended).  Here are some common problems that this book will help you to avoid (there are many more, but these spring immediately to mind):<br />PROBLEM: A horde of analysts descend and produce reams of paper that are little more than stick figures and ellipses. They are, well, of little value because they are devoid of any real information and too often confusing.  The other side of this problem is an unmanageable number of these &quot;use cases&quot; are produced with inconsistent detail, or an overwhelming amount of detail crammed into a single use case. RESULT: Developers have no clear idea about how to proceed and much rework is done to get the needed information (or developers do proceed and create something not envisioned).<br />PROBLEM: Use cases are considered to be the requirements specification.  RESULT:  Developers build something based solely on behavior, leaving out functions and features that customers want or need, and most likely not suited to requirements.<br />PROBLEM:  [Related to the preceding] Test plans and test cases for systems built upon the shaky foundation of bad use cases cannot be properly developed.  RESULT:  A hit-or-miss test cycle that is almost certainly destined to miss a large number of defects (functional and operational).<br />Mr. Cockburn's approach to use cases will allow you to sidestep not only the more common problems associated with improper use cases, but hundreds more than will crop up unless the value and context of use cases in the development or project life cycle is understood.  Here are some of the key points in this book that make it so valuable:  use cases are but one element of requirements and the hub-and-spoke model given in the book places them into proper context, properly developed use cases are written documents, not diagrams (more about that later), use cases are NOT the requirements document, properly formed use cases DO have a set structure and different levels of precision in accordance with well-defined rules, and the use case creation process needs to be carefully managed because, like software source code, you need to ensure that you're working from the right revision.<br />Part 1 of this book provides clear guidance for writing, managing and using use cases.  Part 2 of the book is especially valuable because it addresses frequently discussed topics.  Part 3 is a comprehensive list of reminders and rules that will guide you, and Appendix A is a succinct discussion on use cases in UML.  A few other things that set this book apart:  there are numerous &quot;short stories&quot; throughout the book.  Each of these stories reinforce information and concepts, and also epitomize Mr. Cockburn's recurring advice to keep things short - he shows by example how to cram clear information into brief chunks of writing.  He also provides a summary of pass/fail tests for use case fields that will make inspections and walkthroughs easy.  One piece of trivia answered a question that had been bothering be for years, &quot;why the emphasis on stick figures and ellipses?&quot;  The answer:  the CASE tool industry, which sold graphical tools, had a lot of influence on the emphasis placed on graphical depictions vs. text-based use cases.  This book will set you on the right course and not one that has evolved from vendor agendas.  I personally think this is the best book on use cases and is the only one I recommend to clients and associates.ment, properly formed use cases DO have a set structure and different levels of precision in accordance with well-defined rules, and the use case creation process needs to be carefully managed because, like software source code, you need to ensure that you're working from the right revision.<br />Part 1 of this book provides clear guidance for writing, managing and using use cases.  Part 2 of the book is especially valuable because it addresses frequently discussed topics.  Part 3 is a comprehensive list of reminders and rules that will guide you, and Appendix A is a succinct discussion on use cases in UML.  A few other things that set this book apart:  there are numerous &quot;short stories&quot; throughout the book.  Each of these stories reinforce information and concepts, and also epitomize Mr. Cockburn's recurring advice to keep things short - he shows by example how to cram clear information into brief chunks of writing.  He also provides a summary of pass/fail tests for use case fields that will make inspections and walkthroughs easy.  One piece of trivia answered a question that had been bothering be for years, &quot;why the emphasis on stick figures and ellipses?&quot;  The answer:  the CASE tool industry, which sold graphical tools, had a lot of influence on the emphasis placed on graphical depictions vs. text-based use cases.  This book will set you on the right course and not one that has evolved from vendor agendas.  I personally think this is the best book on use cases and is the only one I recommend to clients and associates.	2001-06-30
1938748:US	53037408	R31MHL9PUNMJTH	1565929489	21725431	Oracle SQL*Loader: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Clearly information collected into one handy reference	Although Oracle does a reasonable job of clearly explaining SQL*Loader, this guide takes it a giant leap forward.  First it collects everything you ever needed or wanted to know about SQL*Loader into a 251 page reference.  It's written in a friendlier fashion than Oracle's documentation, and with more examples that are better written.  On the whole, this promotes a better understanding of SQL*Loader, its strengths and limitations, and will allow DBAs to master every facet and nuance of this powerful tool.  Considering the damage that can be inflicted on a production database if SQL*Loader is improperly used, all DBAs who use this tool to load data (and who doesn't?) should read this book and have a copy on their desk.<br />Another use for this book is as a training aid for new DBAs and as the basis for database administration policies and procedures that spell out when and how to load data into a production system.  It also contains a wealth of information that can be incorporated into change control implementation and rollback plans when massive updates need to be performed.  I like the thorough treatment, the fact that it's up-to-date, and the advice and tips that are imparted throughout this book.  It's definitely a good addition to your professional library.	2001-06-30
1939220:US	53037408	R3TZ1004VL6X1G	0471130397	836771866	The Web Page Design Cookbook: All the Ingredients You Need to Create 5-Star Web Pages	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Showing its age, but still an excellent learning tool	I'm not a web developer or designer by any stretch of the imagination, but I do a lot of HTML page development and maintenance, with some light javascript programming thrown in on my own web site.  I started in January 2000 with an account for a personal page, Notepad.exe and a quick reference card.  I learned basic HTML in the process, but also created an eyesore.  As my technical skills evolved the ugliness of my creation remained the same. I swallowed my pride and got this book.  It was one of the best purchases I ever made.<br />For a total beginner this is a good first book because it steps you through creating your first page, then adding features and using advanced HTML as you progress.  For someone who is already proficient with HTML and has developed a few pages, you may find something useful in the advanced techniques and will certainly receive an education in good web page design.  Some of the highlights of the authors' approach to design are in the examples.  The accompanying CD ROM has every example in HTML format so you can see how they will display in your particular browser brand and version, and you can look at the code and play with it to see how your changes will display.  This alone is a real time saver, and it makes this book all the more useful.<br />If you are a technical writer the examples for web pages that provide how-to procedures, troubleshooting procedures, on-line lessons and survey forms reflect good page design and the example files on the CD ROM can be immediately used as templates.<br />The only thing that detracts from this book is that it's woefully out of date. Some of the tools provided on the CD ROM are ancient, as are the discussions on various desktop operating systems.  For example, Windows 95 was not even on the market when this book went to press and the authors' discussion on network issues were educated guesses. Now the network facilities built into desktop operating systems are so transparent that this section of the book can be safely ignored.  However, we also live in a world where HTML has evolved to version 4, cascading style sheets are used on many sites (not to mention Macromedia Flash, Active Server Pages, more sophisticated java and javascript, etc.), rendering a lot of the technical aspects of this book quaint.  On the other hand, that might not be such a bad thing since the best web pages are simple and more focused on design instead of a bunch of technical razzle-dazzle.  But, I would love to see this book updated to reflect contemporary tools and techniques for web page design because I like the way the authors' impart their knowledge.  This book would make an excellent text for a web design 101 class, and is one of the best for those of us who play around with this stuff.  I'm subtracting a star because the book sorely needs to be updated, but am still giving it my highest recommendation.book can be safely ignored.  However, we also live in a world where HTML has evolved to version 4, cascading style sheets are used on many sites (not to mention Macromedia Flash, Active Server Pages, more sophisticated java and javascript, etc.), rendering a lot of the technical aspects of this book quaint.  On the other hand, that might not be such a bad thing since the best web pages are simple and more focused on design instead of a bunch of technical razzle-dazzle.  But, I would love to see this book updated to reflect contemporary tools and techniques for web page design because I like the way the authors' impart their knowledge.  This book would make an excellent text for a web design 101 class, and is one of the best for those of us who play around with this stuff.  I'm subtracting a star because the book sorely needs to be updated, but am still giving it my highest recommendation.	2001-06-30
1939339:US	53037408	RILEO73Q8J4GM	0201255928	109550943	Managing Risk: Methods for Software Systems Development	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Necessary for CMM 4 &amp; 5, excellent general approach	Shows how to establish and manage a comprehensive risk management program.  The basis of Ms. Hall's approach is called &quot;P2I2&quot;, which stands for Process, People, Infrastructure and Implementation. Within these processes are subprocesses and tasks that, as a whole, will result in a risk management posture that is seamlessly integrated into a development project.  Although this book is about managing software development project risks, the approach can be applied to any type of project, and can also be tailored to work in an operational or production environment.  For example, implementation plans and change control in the operational environment require a risk management strategy, and the methods provided in this book will fill the void with no modification of the basic P2I2 approach.<br />The process portion of P2I2 consists of 5-steps for managing risks:  identify, analyze, plan, track and resolve.  For those who manage projects in accordance with the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) processes, the P2I2 on the surface appears different from the 6 steps set forth in the PMBOK.  The key difference between the two is the PMBOK's risk management approach groups 5 processes into project planning and 1 into project control, while the P2I2 approach takes a more holistic view and incorporates risk management across the entire project life cycle.  If you are striving for or working within the Capability Maturity Model at level 3 or above, then this book is essential and perfectly aligns.  The book devotes a chapter to each of the processes, which clearly identifies the what's and how's of each. Note that the book does not cover advanced risk management techniques, such as probability curves - you will need to obtain this information elsewhere.  It does give qualitative techniques, and gives quantitative methods to assess ROI for the risk management initiative itself, as well as other metrics to prove its effectiveness or lack thereof.<br />Implementing the risk management infrastructure is covered in great detail and is a roadmap for making risk management an integral part of your project.  It starts with developing a policy, defining standard processes to be employed, training your team and compliance verification and continuous improvement methods. This material spans five chapters, which sets the foundation for the next five chapters that address implementation of the program itself.  These chapters cover establishing the initiative, developing the plan, tailoring the process to your environment, and assessing and controlling risks.  The last two are excellent primers on their topics.<br />The remaining five chapters are devoted to the people part of P2I2, and are broken down into stages, each discussed in its own chapter.  The stages are: problem, mitigation, prevention, anticipation and opportunity.  Each is thoroughly discussed and taken together these last chapters clearly show roles, issues and factors, and how human resources are integrated into a coherent and holistic risk management initiative.<br />This book is clearly written and well illustrated. The approach is not only practical, it's essential to ensuring the success of any specific project or extended to encompass a development organization.  Moreover, it is also essential for any organization that wants to attain CMM level 4 or 5.ack thereof.<br />Implementing the risk management infrastructure is covered in great detail and is a roadmap for making risk management an integral part of your project.  It starts with developing a policy, defining standard processes to be employed, training your team and compliance verification and continuous improvement methods. This material spans five chapters, which sets the foundation for the next five chapters that address implementation of the program itself.  These chapters cover establishing the initiative, developing the plan, tailoring the process to your environment, and assessing and controlling risks.  The last two are excellent primers on their topics.  <br />The remaining five chapters are devoted to the people part of P2I2, and are broken down into stages, each discussed in its own chapter.  The stages are: problem, mitigation, prevention, anticipation and opportunity.  Each is thoroughly discussed and taken together these last chapters clearly show roles, issues and factors, and how human resources are integrated into a coherent and holistic risk management initiative.<br />This book is clearly written and well illustrated. The approach is not only practical, it's essential to ensuring the success of any specific project or extended to encompass a development organization.  Moreover, it is also essential for any organization that wants to attain CMM level 4 or 5.	2001-06-29
1939356:US	53037408	R3EJE8GMGK7T1M	0750632402	890700853	Prince 2: A Practical Handbook: A Practical Guide (Computer Weekly Professional)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	SOme excellent practices for PMPs and PMO organizations	This book's main value is to Project Management Professionals (PMPs) and readers who are seeking a viable program management office (PMO) model.  The reason for this particular audience is because PRINCE 2 practitioners almost certainly have a copy of Managing Successful Projects with PRINCE 2, which is the official reference for that project management methodology and its certification requirements.  PRINCE stands for PRojects IN a Controlled Environment and is Great Britain's counterpart to the U.S. project management body of knowledge (PMBOK) that is the standard reference for PMP certification and is also the American National Standard for project management.<br />Why PRINCE?  It nicely augments the PMBOK in a number of ways, all of which are covered in this book.  The book begins with an introduction that explains PRINCE version 2 and its benefits.  The next chapter covers the differences between PRINCE version 1 and 2, and can be safely skipped by the potential audience I cited.<br />Chapter 3 is a complete description of each of the eight PRINCE processes, which are: SU - Start-Up the Project,  IP - Initiate the Project, DP - Direct the Project, CS - Control the Stage, MP - Manage Product Delivery, SB - Manage Stage Boundaries, CP - Close the Project, PL - Planning.  A few clarifications are in order here:  During start-up (SU) the key players are identified and preliminary plans and briefs are developed; during initiation (IP) the initial planning is done and project controls and administration is developed and instituted.  Also note the emphasis on breaking down the project into stages (CS and MP), and on deliverables (MP).  These are key elements of the PRINCE 2 approach, but can easily be incorporated into the approach outlined in the PMBOK's nine process areas.<br />The real difference between PRINCE and the PMBOK, and the value of applying the PRINCE approach to organizing a PMO, is the organizational structure, which is covered in chapter 4.  The project board and well defined roles and responsibilities required by PRINCE 2 are described in sufficient detail to use the information in this chapter as the basis for a PMO as well as for organizing a project in such a manner that ensures proper communications are established and all key stakeholders are active participants.  This organizational structure will go a long way towards a proactive project management posture and will also assure quality.  Chapter 5 covers planning, which is fairly generic. It does address the deliverables-based approach and PMPs will find some useful information here.  PRINCE 2 practitioners will find nothing new.  Chapter 6 addresses project controls with a focus on roles, responsibilities and organizational oversight.  This material will be invaluable to anyone setting up a PMO or who wants to run a tight project.  Another key difference between PRINCE 2 and the PMBOK is the emphasis that PRINCE places on developing a business case.  Chapter 7 thoroughly covers this aspect and also provides forms that will prove useful.<br />The PRINCE 2 approach to managing risk is covered in Chapter 8, and is nearly identical to the PMBOK approach.  The list of risk analysis questions provided at the end of this chapter is complete and worth a careful read.  Quality methods embodied in PRINCE 2 and covered in Chapter 9 is significantly different from the PMBOK approach.  It does not conflict with the PMBOK, and can be easily integrated into a project run in accordance with the PMBOK.  I strongly recommend using the best practices from PRINCE 2, which include developing a project quality plan, stage quality plans and instituting quality reviews as set forth by the PRINCE 2 method.  Chapters 11 and 12 cover configuration management and change control in a lot more detail than is given in the PMBOK.  Both are essential ingredients of product quality and scope management, and this book gives a thorough and straightforward treatment of both areas.<br />Theappendix is a collection of 25 artifacts (see table of contents for a full listing) that can be tailored to meet your specific requirements.<br />Overall this is a valuable book that was ostensibly written for PRINCE 2 practitioners, but I personally believe it is of equal value to PMPs or any project manager who wants to learn and apply best practices in project management.rd treatment of both areas.<br />The appendix is a collection of 25 artifacts (see table of contents for a full listing) that can be tailored to meet your specific requirements. <br />Overall this is a valuable book that was ostensibly written for PRINCE 2 practitioners, but I personally believe it is of equal value to PMPs or any project manager who wants to learn and apply best practices in project management.	2001-06-29
1940642:US	53037408	RNYBG6G1SJPDS	1855541734	278448712	Configuration Management Within Prince	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Applicable to PRINCE 2 and fills gaps in the PMBOK	Although this 92-page book was written before PRINCE version 2 was released in 1996 the material applies to the current version without modification.<br />Mr. Bentley, who has written extensively about PRINCE, starts this book with a quick overview of PRINCE. If you are familiar with PRINCE 2 you can safely skip this chapter.  However, if your interest is project management configuration management processes and procedures and you are not familiar with PRINCE then I strongly recommend that you go through this chapter to see how CM fits within a mature and well-defined project management methodology.  The PRINCE project management components described in this chapter are also necessary to understanding the larger context.<br />Chapter 2 is a brief overview of configuration management, benefits and costs.  The next ten chapters systematically cover roles and activities associated with PRINCE in particular and project management CM in general.  The sequence is: configuration librarian's role, configuration management plan, identification conventions, configuration item attributes, product issue and submission procedures, baselines, change control, building a release package, project documentation and status accounting and auditing.  In short, all of the key elements of a configuration management program.<br />The final chapter stands out because it provides two configuration management methods that can be directly applied to the PRINCE 2 methodology (or any project management approach for that matter).  For the PRINCE 2 practitioner this chapter is particularly valuable because it can be easily mapped to the PRINCE 2 processes.  For other practitioners, such as Project Management Professionals (the U.S. certified counterpart to PRINCE 2 certified practitioners), this chapter provides a clear roadmap to incorporating configuration and change management into a project.<br />Another valuable part of this book is the appendix, which provides a comprehensive set of example forms that can be used.  The forms provided are: product submission request, status change request, filing log index, issue log, issue report, off-specification log, off-specification report, request for change form and request for change log.<br />This book is the most comprehensive treatment of project configuration and change management available.  Although it's out of print I strongly recommend that any serious project manager, especially one who works within the PRINCE 2 framework, make the effort to obtain a copy.  The information directly applies to PRINCE, through version 2, and will also fill some of the gaps on project configuration and change management in the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge.e forms that can be used.  The forms provided are: product submission request, status change request, filing log index, issue log, issue report, off-specification log, off-specification report, request for change form and request for change log.  <br />This book is the most comprehensive treatment of project configuration and change management available.  Although it's out of print I strongly recommend that any serious project manager, especially one who works within the PRINCE 2 framework, make the effort to obtain a copy.  The information directly applies to PRINCE, through version 2, and will also fill some of the gaps on project configuration and change management in the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge.	2001-06-28
1940894:US	53037408	RZIXE05LU64LV	0113308558	49760121	Managing Sucessful Projects with Prince 2	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Essential for PRINCE 2 cert - should be read by PMPs too!	This book is the officially sanctioned reference for PRINCE(PRojects IN a Controlled Environment) version 2. The PRINCE 2 approach to project management is a national standard in Great Britain that is under the cognizance of the CCTA(Central Computer &amp; Telecommunications Agency).  As such, PRINCE 2 is the British counterpart of the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), which is an American National Standard designated as ANSI/PMI 99-001-2000.<br />This 342 page book is composed of four sections: (1) Introduction (project management methods that PRINCE encompasses and incorporates), (2) Components (project planning, control and organization), (3) Processes (the eight PRINCE 2 processes: Planning (PL), Directing a Project (DP), Starting up a Project (SU), Initiating a Project (IP), Managing Stage Boundaries (SB),Controlling a Stage (CS), Managing Product Delivery (MP), Closing a Project (CP)), and (4) Techniques (Product Breakdown Structure, quality reviews, etc.).  The book also contains appendices that are valuable.  One of the better ones discusses PRINCE 2's relationship to ISO 9000 with respect to quality.<br />Note that to someone not familiar with PRINCE 2 the Starting up a project and Initiating a project may seem ambiguous or redundant.  During start-up the key players are identified and preliminary plans and briefs are developed; during initiation the initial planning is done and project controls and administration is developed and instituted.<br />The big question is how does PRINCE 2 compare to the PMBOK.  Here are what I consider to be the key differences:  PRINCE 2 is more focused on project assurance and its organizational structure reflects that.  At the top of a PRINCE 2 project is a project board that consists of a customer (project sponsor), user (major stakeholder) and supplier representative (the organization that has control over the project's human resources).  The project manager answers to this board, which represents all major stakeholder constituencies.  The project board's role is active and under this arrangement there are no surprises late in the game.  Contrast this with the PMBOK model under which does not impose the same formal controls and organization.  It is conceivable using the PMBOK model that customers (I'm lumping the PRINCE definition of customer with the PRINCE user) could be surprised late in a project by quality or differing views on what was promised vs. what was delivered.  Under the PRINCE 2 the checks and balances of the project board prevent this.<br />This organizational structure is also a key element of assurance.  PRINCE 2 mandates three independent views of project progress: business, user and specialist, which correspond to the project board members. Discrepancies between or among any of these viewpoints can be quickly and efficiently remedied.  This is an excellent system of checks and balances.<br />PRINCE 2 is business-case driven. The PMBOK falls far short of the mark here.<br />Risk management is nearly identical for both approaches.  In fact the restructuring of the risk management knowledge area in the PMBOK 2000 edition into 6 process steps appears to have been inspired by PRINCE 2, which made its debut in 1996.<br />I think that the increased emphasis on earned value project management in the PMBOK puts that approach ahead of PRINCE 2 for project controls.<br />Both approaches support stages and phases, but this is one of the core processes of PRINCE 2 while the PMBOK is somewhat ambiguous. PRINCE 2 is also clearly deliverables driven, while the PMBOK does not place anywhere near the same emphasis or attach the same degree of importance to this aspect.  PRINCE 2 is clearly ahead in these areas.<br />Why pursue PRINCE 2 certification for which this book is the definitive reference?  It is essential if you expect to manage or perform a key role on a project in the British Commonwealth or in countries that were once part of the Commonwealth.  This includes a large portion of the Middle East and some important Asian-Pacific countries where PRINCE 2 is highly recognized but the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification has little recognition of carries little weight.<br />Why read this book if the above does not apply?  There are some exceptionally effective practices embodied in PRINCE 2, especially the organizational structure described above. PRINCE 2 and PMBOK are not mutually exclusive, and the best parts of PRINCE 2 can be incorporated into projects that are managed in accordance with the PMBOK.  Moreover, PRINCE 2 is an ideal framework with which to build a project management office, which is only briefly touched upon in chapter 3 of the PMBOK 2000 edition, but is substantially built into the PRINCE 2 method.he Commonwealth.  This includes a large portion of the Middle East and some important Asian-Pacific countries where PRINCE 2 is highly recognized but the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification has little recognition of carries little weight.<br />Why read this book if the above does not apply?  There are some exceptionally effective practices embodied in PRINCE 2, especially the organizational structure described above. PRINCE 2 and PMBOK are not mutually exclusive, and the best parts of PRINCE 2 can be incorporated into projects that are managed in accordance with the PMBOK.  Moreover, PRINCE 2 is an ideal framework with which to build a project management office, which is only briefly touched upon in chapter 3 of the PMBOK 2000 edition, but is substantially built into the PRINCE 2 method.	2001-06-28
1941023:US	53037408	RG25GOLPTWHQ0	1880410133	100670745	A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Still valid even with the 2000 edition available	Why purchase the 1996 edition when the 2000 edition is out?  Two reasons: (1) according to the Project Management Institute the PMP examinations conducted in 2001 will use the 1996 edition as one of the principal references, and (2) the 1996 edition is an Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) standard, designated as Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge IEEE 1490-1998.<br />This book is nearly identical to the 2000 edition with the following exceptions:<br />Chapter 2 (2000 edition) adds a brief piece on the role of project offices.  Chapter 3 (2000 edition) appears to have taken a few ideas from the British PM standard, PRINCE 2 (PRojects IN a Controlled Environment) because more attention appears to be given to phases and interactions among phases.  The 2000 edition also briefly addresses iterative development. Chapters 4 and 11 (2000 edition) more fully address earned value with a lot more material on this topic. Chapter 6 (2000 edition) briefly covers theory of constraints.<br />I have compared the 1996 and 2000 editions and cannot find any substantial differences between the two other than what I've cited above.  However, since the PMI has stated that the 1996 edition is a resource for the 2001 examinations you need to go over this book carefully if you are a PMP candidate in 2001.	2001-06-28
1941133:US	53037408	R16WI9TQ2TL6GS	0849399807	525507714	PDCA/Test	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Invaluable for setting up a Test/QA organization	This Book/CD ROM is virtually identical to Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement by the same author.  It represents what I consider to be the definitive work on quality assurance and software testing, with a book that gives a solid framework, well designed processes and a detailed discussion of procedures. The value is the accompanying CD ROM of artifacts.<br />The Book Part:  458 pages vs. 656 pages of Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement upon which this package is based.  The difference in page count is due to appendices provided on CD ROM instead of hard copy.<br />Structure and contents of the book:  Section I gives a quality assurance framework that is based on TQM's Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle and covers all of the essential elements, including the differences between prevention and detection, verification vs. validation, testing vs. quality control, and configuration management.  These distinctions, definitions and elements are the foundation of Mr. Lewis' approach to testing and continuous improvement.  Section I also gives a good overview of testing techniques and the key ingredients of continuous quality improvement.<br />Section II approaches testing from a life cycle perspective, clearly showing that testing starts with requirements, not after the product has been built.  The verification checkpoints for each milestone are completely described. Section III addresses testing for client/server and internet projects, and is one of the most ion-depth treatments of methods and procedures I have come across.  Moreover, it follows the PDCA cycle, which shows how theory can be put into practice.  This is the heart of the book and is essential reading for anyone who needs to get up-to-speed on methods and techniques, as well as test managers who want to implement a coherent and workable process.<br />Most of Section IV was weak because it was centered on tools.  This information quickly becomes obsolete, and there is no web site associated with this specific book to provide up-to-date information.  Since many publishers are augmenting their books with web sites I hope this is rectified in the near future for this book because tools are an important subject and not something that can be accurately described in a book given the publication lead times.  However, the methodology for evaluating testing tools in this section is valuable and on the mark.<br />Section V addresses the realities of software testing in the maintenance environment.  I personally liked this section of the book above all others because the author addresses all of the major issues faced by service delivery and support personnel, as well as the challenges this environment imposes on test professionals. This is one area that will benefit the most from the author's approach and is, unfortunately, the area that will be most difficult to employ the approach. The reason is each development (application delivery) project starts with a reasonably clean slate and is focused on producing something within the confines of a relatively controllable project team.  The maintenance environment, on the other hand, has stakeholders across the enterprise (and perhaps among many external customers).  The barriers are political, organizational and cross-functional. However, the benefits that will be realized from using Mr. Lewis' approach in this environment is worth the effort, trials and tribulations of implementing it.<br />Like Section IV, Section VI is weak because it discusses specific tools.<br />CD ROM:  This is a collection of valuable artifacts as follows: A: Spiral Testing Methodology - good collection of flow charts that show processes for all testing phases. B: Software Quality Assurance Plan - a well thought out template.  C: Requirements Specification - another well designed template. D: Change Request - not the best example I've seen, but certainly has the essential elements. E: Test Templates - these are valuable; among the best I'vecome across F: Checklists - an amazing collection of checklists that should be in every QA organization G: Integrating Testing into Development Methodology - good training material. H. Software Testing - excellent training material for your personal development or your team.  I especially like the software quality assurance plan, test templates (16 in all), and the checklists.  The best,in my opinion, is Appendix H, which is a 66-page mini-encyclopedia of testing techniques.<br />Why buy this version instead of the book?  If you need the artifacts the difference in price between this product and Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement will be more than compensated for in the time it would take to recreate the artifacts using a word processor. If you are starting a QA organization or are a consultant it makes sense to get this product, if your goal is professional development and adding a reference to your library, then the book makes more sense.  Regardless, this is an important work whether in the CD ROM/Book combination or the book and should be on the desk of every serious QA professional.I've come across F: Checklists - an amazing collection of checklists that should be in every QA organization G: Integrating Testing into Development Methodology - good training material. H. Software Testing - excellent training material for your personal development or your team.   I especially like the software quality assurance plan, test templates (16 in all), and the checklists.  The best,in my opinion, is Appendix H, which is a 66-page mini-encyclopedia of testing techniques.  <br />Why buy this version instead of the book?  If you need the artifacts the difference in price between this product and Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement will be more than compensated for in the time it would take to recreate the artifacts using a word processor. If you are starting a QA organization or are a consultant it makes sense to get this product, if your goal is professional development and adding a reference to your library, then the book makes more sense.  Regardless, this is an important work whether in the CD ROM/Book combination or the book and should be on the desk of every serious QA professional.	2001-06-28
1941182:US	53037408	R222KSXJ4IT8TA	0201657805	66628356	e-Data: Turning Data Into Information With Data Warehousing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Refreshingly honest, thorough and well written	Ms. Dyche has managed to do the impossible by writing a book that will appeal equally to business and technical folks.  More importantly, she uncovers the real business value of data warehousing, as well as exposing the technical issues surrounding their design, implementation and ongoing management. And she does it through engaging writing that makes it impossible to put the book down.  I read (devoured) this book in a single [long] evening, dwelling on every fact and marvelling at the width and breadth of the author's knowledge and experience.<br />She begins by explaining in simple, but not condescending terms, what a data warehouse is, its value to business, and key objectives of data warehousing.  While I admired her ability to describe complex facts in clear terms, I especially enjoyed the list of trite data warehousing aphorisms.  Mr. Dyche's style is to always provide balance. She comes across as passionate about every topic, but is equally quick to show the darker side of things.  This she does throughout the book, and it is one reason why this technical book is such a page-turner.<br />The next chapter is a thorough discussion of decision support that covers the mechanics, and provides illustrative examples that transform concepts and theory into the practical and achievable.<br />Chapter 3 is devoted to the topics of data warehouses and database marketing.  This is where Ms. Dyche skillfully ties together the business and technical aspects. She also provides the most complete explanation of what exactly customer relationship management it (the term is so bandied about these days that most people have no idea what it really means).  This chapter provides excellent material for marketing and MBA types, and will hopefully provide IS/IT folks with ideas on how data warehousing initiatives support business processes.  The case studies in this chapter reinforces key points of facts and discussion, and also showed the bridge that needs to be built between IS/IT and business process owners.  I came away with this chapter feeling as though I had a mandate to build such a bridge.<br />The next chapter, 4, is a panoramic view of how various industries use data warehousing to their advantage.  Ms. Dyche recommends that you read them all because you'll learn much by looking beyond the borders of your own industry segment, and I completely agree with her.  I couldn't resist jumping to the telecom industry first, though, and was astonished at not only how well Ms. Dyche understood and articulated the issues, but in how well they were presented in 9 pages.  She gave the same thorough and insightful treatment to retail, financial, transportation, government, health care, insurance and entertainment (although the page count varied from one industry to another).<br />Chapter 5 delves deeper into the technology and can be easily understood by IS/IT folks who may not be data warehouse experts, as well as business process owners who don't want to be experts, but may be interested in how the moving parts fit together.<br />Implementation and finding the right vendors are covered in the next two chapters.  I had to smile when I read the accurate portrayal of &quot;Good vs. Evil: A tale of Two Project Plans.&quot;  This is required reading for every project manager who finds her- or himself managing a data warehouse project.  Here Ms. Dyche takes a poorly developed project plan that is unfortunately representative of most and shows the flaws. She then shows what a good project plan looks like.  Also pay close attention to what she has to say about qualifying and selecting vendors in chapter 7.  Although she herself is a consultant who works for a small firm she is not the least bit reticent about providing a balanced view of the good and bad of consultants and vendors, as well as the relative strengths and weaknesses of large firms vs. small ones.  Both honesty and humor come through here.<br />Because I have a &quot;thing&quot; for cost analysis and ROI I especially liked chapter 8 that covers the data warehouse business value proposition.  Like every other chapter this was one the mark and insightful.  However, the real insights (not to mention a touch of wit) come in chapter 9 - the perils and pitfalls.  First she discards the tired list of pitfalls that have been circulating and comes up with a fresh set of &quot;New Top 10&quot; pitfalls, which hit home and impart more wisdom that you can imagine.  She then segues into an expose of ten dirty little secrets, which are refreshing in their frankness and insight.  Ms. Dyche really steps up to the plate here.  Apparently she was on a roll when writing this chapter because she caps it off with a piece on the politics of data warehousing and eight signs of data warehouse sabotage.  She ends with a chapter titled, &quot;What to Do Now&quot; that offers yet more advice and insight about how to proceed if you need a data warehouse or if you already have one.<br />This book is packed with facts wrapped in wit and sparkling prose.  It contains advice and wisdom that would take years to accrue, and is usually jealously guarded by consultants and vendors.  Yet the author, a consultant, freely dispenses this advice and wisdom, which makes this book so valuable.  It earns far more than the 5 stars available and is strongly recommended.cost analysis and ROI I especially liked chapter 8 that covers the data warehouse business value proposition.  Like every other chapter this was one the mark and insightful.  However, the real insights (not to mention a touch of wit) come in chapter 9 - the perils and pitfalls.  First she discards the tired list of pitfalls that have been circulating and comes up with a fresh set of &quot;New Top 10&quot; pitfalls, which hit home and impart more wisdom that you can imagine.  She then segues into an expose of ten dirty little secrets, which are refreshing in their frankness and insight.  Ms. Dyche really steps up to the plate here.  Apparently she was on a roll when writing this chapter because she caps it off with a piece on the politics of data warehousing and eight signs of data warehouse sabotage.  She ends with a chapter titled, &quot;What to Do Now&quot; that offers yet more advice and insight about how to proceed if you need a data warehouse or if you already have one.<br />This book is packed with facts wrapped in wit and sparkling prose.  It contains advice and wisdom that would take years to accrue, and is usually jealously guarded by consultants and vendors.  Yet the author, a consultant, freely dispenses this advice and wisdom, which makes this book so valuable.  It earns far more than the 5 stars available and is strongly recommended.	2001-06-28
1941201:US	53037408	R1KD20Y696OT24	1880410257	787121584	A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide)--2000 Edition	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Essential for PMP candidates	This CD ROM contains is the electronic form (Adobe Acrobat format) of a set of guidelines that represent two things: (1) a De Jure standard for project management, which is the American National Standard classified as ANSI/PMI 99-001-2000 and (2) one of the primary resources that you need to thoroughly know in order to successfully pass the Project Management Professional(PMP)certification examination.  NOTE: According to the Project Management Institute candidates seeking PMP certification in 2001 will also be responsible for the content in the older PMBOK dated 1996 also available from Amazon.com.<br />What it contains:  this CD ROM is identical in format and content as the hard copy versions of the PMBOK 2000 edition.  Its 211 pages are divided into four sections that are comprised of 12 chapters and seven appendices.<br />Section I consists of three chapters that introduce the guide and briefly describes terms and definitions.  It also provides an overview of the nine knowledge areas and 39 processes embodied in the project management framework.  Chapter 2 adds a brief piece on the role of project offices, which was not in the 1996 edition.  Chapter 3 appears to have taken a few ideas from the British PM standard, PRINCE 2 (PRojects IN a Controlled Environment) because more attention appears to be given to phases and interactions among phases.  Another interesting thing I noted about Chapter 3 is the inclusion (although brief) of iterative development. If you are in IT/IS you will recognize how this can be aligned to the Rational Unified Process or other iterative development approaches.<br />The nine chapters in Section II address each of the nine knowledge areas and their associated processes.  The knowledge areas are:  project integration management, scope management, time management, cost management, quality management, human resources management, communications management, risk management and procurement management.  The knowledge areas and processes in the 2000 edition have undergone some refinement and expansion from what is in the 1996 edition:  Chapters 4 and 10 have a lot more material on earned value (I recommend Earned Value Project Management, 2nd edition as an augment to the PMBOK because the authors of that book were instrumental in adding earned value to the PMBOK), Chapter 6 touches on theory of constraints (a good book that extends this is Project Management in the Fast Lane by Robert Newbold), and Chapter 11, risk management, has been expanded to include six processes instead of four that were covered in the 1996 edition.<br /> Section III is a collection of seven appendices, of which Appendix G, Summary of Project Management Knowledge Areas, is the most valuable.  Section IV is a glossary and index.<br />It's a given that if you are pursuing PMP certification the PMBOK is a must. The burning question is whether or not you should get the hard copy or CD ROM version.  I personally prefer the hard copy version because of the way I read (not to mention the eyestrain from reading off a monitor).  However, the CD ROM version is a lot more portable, and you can print out the entire PMBOK or selected sections for offline reading. There is also something to be said for the way the CD ROM version is hyperlinked, making it a convenience.  I have it in both formats, but you will have to decide which is most convenient for you - or spend the extra money and get the book and CD ROM.the 2000 edition have undergone some refinement and expansion from what is in the 1996 edition:  Chapters 4 and 10 have a lot more material on earned value (I recommend Earned Value Project Management, 2nd edition as an augment to the PMBOK because the authors of that book were instrumental in adding earned value to the PMBOK), Chapter 6 touches on theory of constraints (a good book that extends this is Project Management in the Fast Lane by Robert Newbold), and Chapter 11, risk management, has been expanded to include six processes instead of four that were covered in the 1996 edition.<br /> Section III is a collection of seven appendices, of which Appendix G, Summary of Project Management Knowledge Areas, is the most valuable.  Section IV is a glossary and index.  <br />It's a given that if you are pursuing PMP certification the PMBOK is a must. The burning question is whether or not you should get the hard copy or CD ROM version.  I personally prefer the hard copy version because of the way I read (not to mention the eyestrain from reading off a monitor).  However, the CD ROM version is a lot more portable, and you can print out the entire PMBOK or selected sections for offline reading. There is also something to be said for the way the CD ROM version is hyperlinked, making it a convenience.  I have it in both formats, but you will have to decide which is most convenient for you - or spend the extra money and get the book and CD ROM.	2001-06-28
1941232:US	53037408	R1SVDDLABQDE2	0849398339	180100866	Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A definitive work that covers process &amp; procedures	Mr. Lewis has written what I consider to be the definitive work on quality assurance and software testing.  What sets this book apart from the wealth of excellent and not-so-excellent books on both quality assurance and testing is this one has a clearly defined framework, processes and procedures.<br />The framework is based on the basic Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) paradigm from TQM.  I personally use an almost identical paradigm called Entry Criteria-Task-Validation-Exit Criteria (ETVX), and have mentally changed every occurrence of PDCA to ETVX.  The distinction between the two is important from a process point of view because clearly defined entry and exit criteria eliminate multiple inspections.  But this is a fine point.  The quality assurance framework in Section I covers all of the essential elements, including the differences between prevention and detection, verification vs. validation, testing vs. quality control, and configuration management.  These distinctions, definitions and elements are the foundation of Mr. Lewis' approach.  Section I also gives a good overview of testing techniques and the key ingredients of continuous quality improvement.<br />Section II approaches testing from a life cycle perspective, clearly showing that testing starts with requirements, not after the product has been built.  The verification checkpoints for each milestone are completely described. Section III addresses testing for client/server and internet projects, and is one of the most ion-depth treatments of methods and procedures I have come across.  Moreover, it follows the PDCA cycle, which shows how theory can be put into practice.  This is the heart of the book and is essential reading for anyone who needs to get up-to-speed on methods and techniques, as well as test managers who want to implement a coherent and workable process.<br />Most of Section IV was weak because it was centered on tools.  This information quickly becomes obsolete, and there is no web site associated with this specific book to provide up-to-date information.  Since many publishers are augmenting their books with web sites I hope this is rectified in the near future for this book because tools are an important subject and not something that can be accurately described in a book given the publication lead times.  However, the methodology for evaluating testing tools in this section is valuable and on the mark.<br />Section V is where this book addresses the realities of software testing - testing in the maintenance environment.  I personally liked this section of the book above all others because the author addresses all of the major issues faced by service delivery and support personnel, as well as the challenges this environment imposes on test professionals. This is one area that will benefit the most from the author's approach and is, unfortunately, the area that will be most difficult to employ the approach. The reason is each development (application delivery) project starts with a reasonably clean slate and is focused on producing something within the confines of a relatively controllable project team.  The maintenance environment, on the other hand, has stakeholders across the enterprise (and perhaps among many external customers).  The barriers are political, organizational and cross-functional. However, the benefits that will be realized from using Mr. Lewis' approach in this environment is worth the effort, trials and tribulations of implementing it.<br />Like Section IV, Section VI is weak because it discusses specific tools.  However, the appendices are a collection of valuable artifacts, especially the software quality assurance plan, test templates (16 in all), and the checklists.  I specially liked Appendix H, which is a 66-page mini-encyclopedia of testing techniques.<br />This book is, in the words of another reviewer, &quot;A quality assurance bible&quot;.  It is the most comprehensive and impressive work I've read to date and one that earns my strongest recommendation and five solid stars.hat earns my strongest recommendation and five solid stars.	2001-06-28
1941758:US	53037408	R22Q6N1573YYFE	0412542404	564510809	Service Level Agreements: Measuring Cost and Quality in Service Relationships	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Invaluable checklists and straightforward approach	This 126 page book covers service level agreements (SLA) from the perspective of a service provider with external customers, but can also be used as the basis for internal SLAs between IS/IT and end users, or other internal service functions that provide services.  Some examples of internal service functions include HR, facilities, etc.<br />Chapter 1 covers SLAs and what they can and cannot accomplish.  Some strong points about this chapter include quality attributes (speed, response and accuracy), process control and points of delivery and delivery mechanisms.  While these points apply across the board, they are fundamental to IS/IT service level management, which is one of my technical specialties.  I particularly liked the three-page service orientation checklist at the end of the chapter.  This checklist alone makes the book a valuable resource for service management practitioners.<br />Some of the best content in this book is contained in chapter 2, which covers measurement of service availability and quality.  The author's experience is underscored by the way he links availability to change and problem management.  He also addresses critical component analysis, how service delivery relates to security and contingency planning and other important issues and factors that need to be considered when designing a SLA.  This chapter ends with an excellent checklist to be applied to service level quantification with a focus on critical component failure analysis, and a sample customer satisfaction survey that can be tailored and incorporated into your service level management strategy.<br />Chapter 3 consists of six interesting and insightful pages devoted to how service level agreements can be used in development and creative environments.  The perspective is unique in that I have not come across this view in other literature and gleaned a few good ideas from it.<br />Keys to monitoring and measuring service, Chapter 4's topic, stands out for a number of reasons.  First, it is a fast read of sensible and straightforward information, and second, it addresses charging for support services.  I also liked the service reporting schematic and sample reports.<br />The book ends with a short chapter that addresses risks of and alternatives to SLAs and a chapter devoted to a case study.  One of the most valuable parts of these final two chapters is a list potential failures and their reasons that can kill or impair an SLA initiative.<br />There are two appendices:  a service level agreement checklist and sample service level agreement.  Both are valuable; however, the 12 page SLA checklist is one of the most comprehensive I've seen and an invaluable asset.<br />This book will compliment the more modern Foundations of Service Level Management by Rick Sturm, et al because the checklists are more comprehensive.  Moreover, this book does not wander off into tools like Mr. Sturm's book, making the content nearly timeless.  Both books are 5-star works and both belong on any serious service level management practitioner's bookshelf.irst, it is a fast read of sensible and straightforward information, and second, it addresses charging for support services.  I also liked the service reporting schematic and sample reports.<br />The book ends with a short chapter that addresses risks of and alternatives to SLAs and a chapter devoted to a case study.  One of the most valuable parts of these final two chapters is a list potential failures and their reasons that can kill or impair an SLA initiative. <br />There are two appendices:  a service level agreement checklist and sample service level agreement.  Both are valuable; however, the 12 page SLA checklist is one of the most comprehensive I've seen and an invaluable asset.<br />This book will compliment the more modern Foundations of Service Level Management by Rick Sturm, et al because the checklists are more comprehensive.  Moreover, this book does not wander off into tools like Mr. Sturm's book, making the content nearly timeless.  Both books are 5-star works and both belong on any serious service level management practitioner's bookshelf.	2001-06-28
1941845:US	53037408	R1TQJ53QLV00AO	0873892747	484092107	Process Reengineering: The Key to Achieving Breakthrough Success	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Concise, pragmatic and filled with advice	This is one of the most straightforward, content rich books on process design and reengineering in my library.  It's not the biggest in terms of page count, but certainly among the best in pragmatic approach and techniques.  It's also a compact catalog of process frameworks to which I refer when I need a quick approach that I can tailor and apply to a specific problem.<br />Mr. Roberts starts this book running.  By page 7 h's stepping you through an &quot;as-is&quot; and &quot;to-be&quot; scenario of a process in need of redesign.  He shares his process reengineering philosophy in chapter 2, which is highlighted by twelve highly effective tenets that will serve you well as either a process designer or reengineer.  Chapter 3 covers possibilities and pitfalls and addresses the key elements of any well designed process, including customer focus, cycle time improvements, process efficiencies and other attributes.  The pitfalls cited are sage advice that make this book all the more valuable.  The process reengineering framework given in chapter 4 is a complete roadmap to reengineering and can also be recast into a framework for process design and implementation.  This is one of the most valuable aspects of the book.<br />The chapter that most greatly influenced my thinking is on opportunity assessment.  This area, in my opinion, is where projects get initiated before they are completely thought through. The focus on traceability to customer requirements, quantitative value analysis and business case approach should be required reading for anyone who has the authority to initiate reengineering projects.  The information and approach will go a long way towards ensuring that you wisely commit resources to the right things, and will also circumvent premature failures (not to mention tarnished or ruined careers or reputations).<br />Chapters 6 and 7 address planning the reengineering project and identifying and assigning the team.  These are followed by four chapters devoted to the sequence of tasks and milestones for the project: analysis, design, risk and impact assessment, and planning and implementing the transition. The last is a critical point that, if not done properly, will kill an otherwise successful project. Each of the chapters, however, provide clear and straightforward direction on how to accomplish necessary tasks and successfully meet milestones.<br />After a process has been implemented the job of tracking and measuring project performance begins. This is the subject of chapter 12, and is a necessary part of a thoroughly planned and executed reengineering project.  After all, the goal is to supplant a legacy process that is no longer efficient and/or effective, not create a brand new process with the same limitations.<br />Overall this is a valuable book that is easy to read and filled with excellent advice.  If you are faced with either designing a new process or reengineering an existing one this book will point you in the right direction. It will also step you through what you need to do, while pointing out the pitfalls along the way and advising on how to avoid or deal with them.d to the sequence of tasks and milestones for the project: analysis, design, risk and impact assessment, and planning and implementing the transition. The last is a critical point that, if not done properly, will kill an otherwise successful project. Each of the chapters, however, provide clear and straightforward direction on how to accomplish necessary tasks and successfully meet milestones.<br />After a process has been implemented the job of tracking and measuring project performance begins. This is the subject of chapter 12, and is a necessary part of a thoroughly planned and executed reengineering project.  After all, the goal is to supplant a legacy process that is no longer efficient and/or effective, not create a brand new process with the same limitations.  <br />Overall this is a valuable book that is easy to read and filled with excellent advice.  If you are faced with either designing a new process or reengineering an existing one this book will point you in the right direction. It will also step you through what you need to do, while pointing out the pitfalls along the way and advising on how to avoid or deal with them.	2001-06-28
1941882:US	53037408	R3VU92SB6Y37WB	0967446058	778493933	Get Smart : The Emergence of Smart Cards in the United States and their Pivotal Role in Internet Commerce	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wide survey of business and technical aspects - well written	This book is a comprehensive, exceptionally well-written compendium devoted to smart cards as a technology, as component of a security infrastructure and as the foundation of a business strategy.  As such it touches upon facts and issues that will be of interest to a wide and diverse audience.<br />Mr. Wilson starts with an engaging chapter on the emergence of smart cards as a business opportunity, and makes a compelling case for why this technology is a sensible solution. The facts and statistics associated with the opportunity should have executives drooling because these devices have proven themselves as a payment medium that is fraud resistant all over the globe. His next chapter on deploying smart cards in the U.S. is a sobering discussion of the strengths, weaknesses and opportunities.  The main barrier to deployment as a monetary instrument in the United States is the massive investment in existing credit card infrastructure:  readers, etc.  However, there are opportunities that might outweigh the barriers.<br />The smart card primer that follows is easy to read and requires no technical background.  Technical and business oriented readers will find this chapter equally interesting.  The real meat of this book, though, is in chapters 4 through 6, which cover smart card applications (a complete survey of what is possible with smart cards), stored value cards (including a frank discussion of successes and failures and the companies behind this approach), and internet commerce (a highly readable description of the technical underpinnings of security and how smart cards fit within the infrastructure). Chapter 7 covers existing standards, who is driving them, and what needs to be accomplished in order to achieve interoperability.<br />I was surprised to find a chapter devoted to biometrics. However, Mr. Wilson set the context by covering the four basic security categories for authorizing access (something you have, something you know, something you are or something you do).  The &quot;something you are&quot;, such as a measurement of one or more physical characteristics, is where biometrics can play a role.  Like the preceding chapters the discussions were informative and exceptionally well written.<br />The book ends with a cogent and articulate chapter on implications for privacy.<br />Among the many things I like about this book are:  it's thorough in that the author touches upon every conceivable issue associated with smart cards, it's honest because the author shares both the strengths and weaknesses of this technology and how it fits within the frameworks of business opportunities, security and privacy, and it's written in an engaging style that makes it a pleasure to read.  Moreover, the book has something for everyone:  it sparks ideas for marketing and business strategists, explains how this technology can be used to IT/IS professionals (especially those who have to devise safe solutions for e-payments, shows fraud managers the power and value of smart cards, and provides security professionals with solid information on an important security tool.  For the latter two groups I strongly recommend augmenting this book with Secrets &amp; Lies by Bruce Schneier, which provides shows a chilling scenario in chapter 11 of that book on how smart cards can be compromised, as well as eight threats and attacks against smart cards in chapter 14.<br />This is a five star book written by a talented writer and authoritative expert.  It has my highest recommendation.ng you do).  The &quot;something you are&quot;, such as a measurement of one or more physical characteristics, is where biometrics can play a role.  Like the preceding chapters the discussions were informative and exceptionally well written.  <br />The book ends with a cogent and articulate chapter on implications for privacy. <br />Among the many things I like about this book are:  it's thorough in that the author touches upon every conceivable issue associated with smart cards, it's honest because the author shares both the strengths and weaknesses of this technology and how it fits within the frameworks of business opportunities, security and privacy, and it's written in an engaging style that makes it a pleasure to read.  Moreover, the book has something for everyone:  it sparks ideas for marketing and business strategists, explains how this technology can be used to IT/IS professionals (especially those who have to devise safe solutions for e-payments, shows fraud managers the power and value of smart cards, and provides security professionals with solid information on an important security tool.  For the latter two groups I strongly recommend augmenting this book with Secrets &amp; Lies by Bruce Schneier, which provides shows a chilling scenario in chapter 11 of that book on how smart cards can be compromised, as well as eight threats and attacks against smart cards in chapter 14.<br />This is a five star book written by a talented writer and authoritative expert.  It has my highest recommendation.	2001-06-28
1951366:US	53037408	R3D578SKI3ZYFP	0672317435	919680387	Foundations of Service Level Management	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Among the best on the subject	This book is important for two reasons: (1) it's written by experienced practitioners who have specialized in service level management for a large part of their careers, and (2) it covers all of the key points of creating, implementing and managing an effective service level management initiative.<br />The five chapters of Part I thoroughly covers principles. One of the strongest chapters in this part is 2, which addresses factors and issues that other books (and articles and white papers) seem to sidestep.  Among them are the effect of batch processing and workload on your ability to meet service level objectives, security, recovery management and costs/affordability.  Lest you think that batch processing is a thing of the past, consider what it takes to refresh data warehouses and data marts, which depend on batch processing.  Workload management, especially the balancing act of squeezing in batch jobs, back-ups and other tasks that need to occur in maintenance windows that are shrinking because the demands of e-commerce and supply chain management practically demand 24x7, is highlighted in this book as well.  Other chapters in Part I that contained gems include: the report card summary in chapter 3 (service level reporting), the plethora of tips in chapter 4 (service level agreements) and the excellent collection of resources cited in chapter 5 (standards efforts).<br />Part II of the book is weak.  It consists of a chapter on service level management practices for a selection of U.S. companies, and a chapter on service level management products.  In my opinion this entire part of the book can be dispensed with because the authors have a web site that augments this book that provides a more up-to-date survey of practices in the U.S. and an additional survey that is global. The chapter on products was obsolete before the book was published.  Again, the web site (URL is provided in the book) provides up-to-date information.<br />Part III is superb.  It is a roadmap to developing, implementing and managing service levels, starting with chapter 8 that leads you through developing a business case. Chapter 9, implementing service level management, was a little light because the task is much larger than what the authors squeezed into the 14 pages allocated to this topic.  Chapter 10 is devoted to data and metrics, which are essential to a viable service level management initiative.  The remaining two chapters are a wrap-up; however, each is worth a thorough reading because there are gems of information and advice sprinkled throughout.<br />The appendices are forms and templates, which can also be obtained in soft copy from the authors' web site.  Each of these artifacts are valuable and will save you a significant amount of time if you're starting from scratch.<br />I'm tempted to subtract a star for Part II's deficiencies, but I won't because this book still stands as the best I've read.  Moreover, the authors make available updated information on their web page, which is something you cannot do with a paper book, and also provide a wealth of additional material that adds significantly to this book's value.  My hope is the authors will trade the page count consumed by Part II for a more in-depth treatment of implementation in chapter 9.to developing, implementing and managing service levels, starting with chapter 8 that leads you through developing a business case. Chapter 9, implementing service level management, was a little light because the task is much larger than what the authors squeezed into the 14 pages allocated to this topic.  Chapter 10 is devoted to data and metrics, which are essential to a viable service level management initiative.  The remaining two chapters are a wrap-up; however, each is worth a thorough reading because there are gems of information and advice sprinkled throughout.<br />The appendices are forms and templates, which can also be obtained in soft copy from the authors' web site.  Each of these artifacts are valuable and will save you a significant amount of time if you're starting from scratch.<br />I'm tempted to subtract a star for Part II's deficiencies, but I won't because this book still stands as the best I've read.  Moreover, the authors make available updated information on their web page, which is something you cannot do with a paper book, and also provide a wealth of additional material that adds significantly to this book's value.  My hope is the authors will trade the page count consumed by Part II for a more in-depth treatment of implementation in chapter 9.	2001-06-20
1952751:US	53037408	R17JUMXH0MGXZD	0769500498	869087687	Better Software Practice for Business Benefit: Principles and Experience	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Practice and theory compared and contrasted	This book is about the software quality methods and initiatives that have evolved in Europe.  It's a collection of presentations that were given at three years of ISCN (International Software Collaborative Network)conferences.<br />Dr Richard Messnarz, the editor, did an excellent job of ensuring that the material is not only uniformly written, which in itself is no small task considering that there are over 30 contributors from 11 European countries.  However, the way this book is organized reflects the real editorial genius.  It's divided into three parts covering (1) principles (theory), (2) experience (practical application of the principles), and (3)synthesis and conclusion (what the future holds and how the European approach is different from the U.S. approach).<br />Chapter 1 is clear roadmap to the book and shows how the subsequent chapters tie together to form an alignment of principles and experience.  More importantly, it also shows how technical aspects of the principles link to business issues.  This is evident in Part 1 where chapters 2, 5, 6 and 7 address business-enabling topics, while chapters 3 and 4 focus in the underlying processes and methods to achieve them.  My favorite chapters from this part of the book were 6-Process and Product Measurement, and 7-Costs and Benefits of Software Process Improvement.  In particular, chapter 6 had clearly written guidance on project controls that is a pet interest.<br />Part 2 is devoted to the experience part that ties to the principles.  The ten chapters cover thoroughly how the principles were employed at a variety of European companies.  I like the cross-section that the editor includes, which covers big and small companies.  This selection of case studies shows that size of the company does not matter as much as commitment to perform, which is the bottom line in any endeavor.  This is where theory meets practice, and the case studies clearly show that the two can be aligned.<br />Part 3 is a single chapter that outlines the differences between the U.S. and European approaches to software quality and processes. It is interesting reading because the challenges are cultural and also hampered by national pride.  However, from my perspective, which includes international consulting, the biggest cultural differences are company cultures and not national ones.  Still, lessons can be learned from this chapter because you will see the same symptoms when comparing two different companies in, say, Los Angeles, as you will when comparing national cultures.<br />Overall:  every one of the chapters is well written and thought provoking.  The processes and methods, drawn from a large number of European initiatives, are true best practices.  The case studies are not only illuminating from the perspective of someone who wants to implement mature processes, but they are also inspirational in that they show that it can be done in companies big and small.  The biggest value, though, is the masterful way the editor has organized this book.  The way principle is linked to experience, experience of large companies compared to that of smaller ones, and the array of approaches and methodologies presented make this book easy to use as a reference.  I strongly recommend it and give it 5 stars.ter that outlines the differences between the U.S. and European approaches to software quality and processes. It is interesting reading because the challenges are cultural and also hampered by national pride.  However, from my perspective, which includes international consulting, the biggest cultural differences are company cultures and not national ones.  Still, lessons can be learned from this chapter because you will see the same symptoms when comparing two different companies in, say, Los Angeles, as you will when comparing national cultures.<br />Overall:  every one of the chapters is well written and thought provoking.  The processes and methods, drawn from a large number of European initiatives, are true best practices.  The case studies are not only illuminating from the perspective of someone who wants to implement mature processes, but they are also inspirational in that they show that it can be done in companies big and small.  The biggest value, though, is the masterful way the editor has organized this book.  The way principle is linked to experience, experience of large companies compared to that of smaller ones, and the array of approaches and methodologies presented make this book easy to use as a reference.  I strongly recommend it and give it 5 stars.	2001-06-19
1954488:US	53037408	R3DINQ74IYPOQI	0130798444	821559673	Business Specifications: The Key to Successful Software Engineering	Books	1	3	4	N	Y	Avoid!  The worst book I have read in years.	I do not normally bother reviewing (let alone finishing) books to which I award one star.  This is an exception because the related theme of this book, business rules, is an important topic and this book actually detracts from the acceptance of business rules as a fundamental approach to requirements and specifications.<br />A scan of the table of contents shows a logical structure that will entice anyone who is interested in business rules to rush out and buy this book.  Unfortunately, the logic and structure ends with the table of contents.  I read through the first three chapters wondering when a concept would emerge.  I continued to plow [painfully] through this book trying to follow the author as he went off on tangents that occasionally (and accidently I suspect) brushed against the theme.  Enduring the worst writing I have encountered in over 25 years in the IT industry I was able to figure out that the author advocated a notation for representing business rules (like we need another modeling language), that business rules should be succinctly expressed (although the book sure wasn't) and business rules could be captured as patterns.  The latter was an original thought that had merit and was even [inadvertently] reinforced by a fact presented in chapter 3 that insurance specifications first published in 1835 still served as a valid model in 2001.<br />The only thing worse than the author filling 305 pages of rambling and incoherent writing that could have been boiled down to perhaps 25 pages is the fact that he emphasizes the need for readability on 39 of those 305 pages. I do not fault the author as much as the publisher's obviously poor editorial process, which allowed this book to make it to publication.<br />If you are interested in how to effectively develop business specifications and express them in a coherent manner this is not the book.  I recommend instead any of the books on the topic by Ronald G. Ross, C. J. Date's &quot;What Not How: Business Rules Approach to Application Development&quot;, or selected works by John Zachman.Rules Approach to Application Development&quot;, or selected works by John Zachman.	2001-06-18
1957171:US	53037408	REYCI6PJV5KWW	0201709368	723689607	B2B Application Integration: e-Business-Enable Your Enterprise	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Complete, pragmatic and a top reference for architects	This book provides a pragmatic approach to B2B integration by focusing on integrating existing systems instead of addressing a &quot;clean slate&quot; approach to the task.<br />Part I consists of a single chapter that defines B2B application integration, and how to leverage your existing assets and make a sound business case to bring this about.  It also provides a quick overview of the key role middleware plays and emphasizes the fact that a truly integrated suite of applications needs to have a built-in mechanism for synchronizing and responding to business events.  This is a key point to the approach and differentiates integrated applications from a collection of systems that have been kludged together to communicate with one another.<br />Chapter 1 also gives a classification of five different approaches to application integration.  This is followed in Part II with a chapter about each approach. The value here is twofold:  (1) the approaches can be viewed as design patterns (with some effort because each approach is presented in a slightly different way), and (2) techniques such as SEI's architecture trade-off analysis method (ATAM) can be applied from a technical perspective to select the best approach for a specific environment.  Part III is devoted to the technology that an architect will have at his or her disposal to apply to the integration.  Starting with an introduction to middleware in chapter 7, this part of the book ends at chapter 13 after thoroughly covering the strengths and weaknesses of each middleware model and associated components. What impressed me the most about this part of the book is the matter-of-fact, unbiased discussion.  The author used products for examples, but did not favor any particular one, which is a refreshing change from some books on the topic that read like vendor literature.<br />Integration standards are covered in Part IV, with the same unbiased approach used in the preceding part, and with the same frank discussions of strengths and weaknesses. Key standards (both De Facto and De Jure) are covered, including XML, RosettaNet's methods, BizTalk and XSLT.  The part of the book also devotes a chapter to understanding supply chain integration and ends with a final chapter titled B2B Application Integration Moving Forward.  This final chapter is packed with advice and things to consider, such as moving from EDI to XML, discussions on security, performance and stability, etc.<br />Mr. Linthicum has done a thorough job of covering the complex issues associated with transforming existing systems into an integrated suite of applications that will support B2B. I like the way he has structured the book, which allows an architect to derive design patterns as well as perform formal trade-off analysis at the technical level for both the architecture and the building blocks with which to build the architecture - or rather, to transform an existing architecture into one that fully supports B2B. This book should be on the desk of every system architect and gets a solid five stars.ssions of strengths and weaknesses. Key standards (both De Facto and De Jure) are covered, including XML, RosettaNet's methods, BizTalk and XSLT.  The part of the book also devotes a chapter to understanding supply chain integration and ends with a final chapter titled B2B Application Integration Moving Forward.  This final chapter is packed with advice and things to consider, such as moving from EDI to XML, discussions on security, performance and stability, etc.  <br />Mr. Linthicum has done a thorough job of covering the complex issues associated with transforming existing systems into an integrated suite of applications that will support B2B. I like the way he has structured the book, which allows an architect to derive design patterns as well as perform formal trade-off analysis at the technical level for both the architecture and the building blocks with which to build the architecture - or rather, to transform an existing architecture into one that fully supports B2B. This book should be on the desk of every system architect and gets a solid five stars.	2001-06-16
1958660:US	53037408	R25HW7EVLXLPUN	0750647248	686004221	Practical CM: Best Configuration Management Practices	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Systems Engineering Approach to CM	This is a brief, but information-packed, book on configuration management from a systems engineering perspective.  If you are seeking a book on software configuration management you would do better with A Guide to Software Configuration Management by Alexis Leon, or my personal favorite (but out-of-print),  Configuration Management for Software by Stephen Compton and Guy Conner.<br />The first chapter is a 1 page summary of change philosophy, followed by a chapter that sets the scope of this book with an in-depth treatment of how CM and engineering development interrelate, with an emphasis on design control.  This segues into a chapter on developing a CM plan and tailoring it to your specific requirements.  The fourth chapter covers CM basics (in my opinion this should have been chapter 1), and  also provides some advanced techniques and approaches.  This chapter draws heavily from MIL-STD-973 and the related EIA standard 649, both of which are excellent foundations of a good CM program. A highlight of this chapter is the section on configuration control boards (CCB), which covers in depth roles and responsibilities, as well as key processes such as problem resolution and the change life cycle from the CCB point of view.  This section is further augmented by chapter 8, which sets forth the roles, responsibilities and processes of a problem resolution board (PRB).  The CCB and PRB are key organizational components of a strong configuration management process and this information makes this book valuable.<br />Another strong chapter, 5, is devoted to transitioning to production.  While this book is not specifically about software configuration management, this chapter provides guidance and techniques with respect to release management that are missing from most books on software configuration management.  Chapter 6, which covers production and support, are also as applicable to SCM as it is to system engineering.<br />The appendices are invaluable. In particular, appendices A (configuration management plan preparation guidelines) and B (questions and answers) provide clarity to some aspects of CM that usually take years of experience to master.<br />This book will not replace any of my books on SCM, but it nicely augments them. It is definitely must reading for system engineering practitioners, and should also be in the reference libraries of IS/IT production support and data center management professionals.ndices A (configuration management plan preparation guidelines) and B (questions and answers) provide clarity to some aspects of CM that usually take years of experience to master.  <br />This book will not replace any of my books on SCM, but it nicely augments them. It is definitely must reading for system engineering practitioners, and should also be in the reference libraries of IS/IT production support and data center management professionals.	2001-06-14
1959435:US	53037408	RCD60XAHWX853	0201633833	712661982	Design and Management Service Processes: Keeping Customers for Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Leads the way towards effective service delivery	This book examines service processes from both the internal and customer's viewpoints, and provides a clear path to capturing, analyzing and integrating metrics from viewpoints.  If you follow the design approach that the author proposes you will have baseline processes that are measurable and manageable. More importantly, you will have a process that is flexible enough to follow changing customer requirements and demands, as well as lending itself to continuous improvement<br />I like the comparison made early in the book between products and services and the emphasis on not only design of services, but delivery.  These are reinforced by fictional case studies and examples that transform theory into practical steps.<br />In the section devoted to actual design of service processes the author uses quality function deployment (QFD), which is a powerful technique that has proven itself repeatedly since it was first used by Japanese shipbuilders in the mid-60s.  In my opinion QFD is the best technique for capturing, assessing and managing requirements.  Its key strengths are the ability to quickly perform a comparative analysis on the whats and hows, show correlations and trade-offs in a quantifiable manner, and superimpose a competitive analysis.  The most important aspect of QFD, though, is that it captures the voice of the customer.<br />The author drills down into design concepts and introduces another powerful technique called the Pugh Method (named after Professor Stuart Pugh), which is a highly refined approach to evaluating design concepts and selecting the best concept from competing alternatives.  While I had a great deal of experience with QFD, the Pugh Method was new to me and I have quickly added it to my collection of best practices and tools.<br />In the section on management and improvement the real work begins.  Here the author thoroughly covers design implementation.  This looks easy on paper - doing it is another thing and the advice offered is on the mark.  Measuring performance of the process (internal view) and assessing customer satisfaction (external view) are discussed in detail and quantitative methods are heavily employed.  I thought the chapter on assessing customer satisfaction was among the best approaches I have come across.  I also liked the chapter on improving service performance. This chapter shows you how to ensure continuous improvement of service delivery, which is key to staying one step ahead of customer demands.<br />I develop and implement information technology service support and delivery processes for a living.  This book has influenced my thinking over the years and the approach has been successfully implemented within that environment.  However, the approach can be applied to any service, which is evidenced by the examples and case studies that are used throughout the book, none of which have anything to do with information technology.  This book is the first one I recommend to colleagues, and it has my highest recommendation for anyone who wants to develop and implement a truly customer-focused service process.e mark.  Measuring performance of the process (internal view) and assessing customer satisfaction (external view) are discussed in detail and quantitative methods are heavily employed.  I thought the chapter on assessing customer satisfaction was among the best approaches I have come across.  I also liked the chapter on improving service performance. This chapter shows you how to ensure continuous improvement of service delivery, which is key to staying one step ahead of customer demands.<br />I develop and implement information technology service support and delivery processes for a living.  This book has influenced my thinking over the years and the approach has been successfully implemented within that environment.  However, the approach can be applied to any service, which is evidenced by the examples and case studies that are used throughout the book, none of which have anything to do with information technology.  This book is the first one I recommend to colleagues, and it has my highest recommendation for anyone who wants to develop and implement a truly customer-focused service process.	2001-06-14
1959935:US	53037408	R35JTD0VMUIW6I	0761518819	883276856	The Mission-Driven Organization : From Mission Statement to a Thriving Enterprise, Here's Your Blueprint for Building an Inspired, Cohesive, Customer-Oriented Team	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Pragmatic &amp; emphasizes quality and leadership	It seems like everyone wants to be a visionary these days, especially in the high tech sector where I make my living.  The problem is that a vision without execution is a hallucination, and there are a lot of hallucinations from what I see.  This book is a grounded and straightforward guide to crafting an organization based on realities.<br />It starts with how to build and articulate a vision, and from that vision derive a mission statement that will guide your company towards realization of the vision.  What I like about the authors' approach is the way they integrate quality management concepts into vision, mission and values.  They also emphasize leadership and make it clear that the best crafted and articulated vision and mission statements are for naught without a total commitment and strong leadership to guide the organization and constantly keep focused on where they are supposed to be going.  This is reinforced with some natural laws, such as you get what you talk about,the culture of a work team is a reflection of its leader, and you can't walk faster than one step at a time.<br />The natural laws set forth in the book have corollaries in the form of problems. Here the authors identify and provide guidance to problems such as managers who won't let go, the front line resists greater authority, an inappropriate focus on the boss and clash of ideas. One key concept that I especially thought astute is relocating authority and identifying consultative and decision roles and responsibilities as centers of authority are transformed into participative management. I think this is key because doing this is a fine balancing act. I have witnessed attempts to do this in other organizations that did not clearly define scope and responsibility (or accountability and authority), only to see managers let go of authority that was rightfully theirs. The result can be chaos and lack of focus - using the authors' approach it becomes a true participatory environment that is focused on mission.<br />Other highlights include:  continuous cultural improvement with an emphasis on measurement, effective use of task forces and a wealth of HR guidelines ranging from hiring/firing to salary and incentives.  These set this book apart from many that deal with vision and mission statements because too many books sidestep these important factors.<br />Over the years I have read a number of books that deal with vision and mission statement development.  This is the first that squarely addresses the leadership issues as well as the HR challenges that you will face when you publish your vision and mission and transform your organization into what you envision. If you are just looking for quick and dirty way to get a vision and mission statement hung in your lobby or emblazoned on your web site this book is not for you.  If, on the other hand, you have an idea where your company should be going and want a clear path to getting there get this book and take it to heart.focused on mission.  <br />Other highlights include:  continuous cultural improvement with an emphasis on measurement, effective use of task forces and a wealth of HR guidelines ranging from hiring/firing to salary and incentives.  These set this book apart from many that deal with vision and mission statements because too many books sidestep these important factors.  <br />Over the years I have read a number of books that deal with vision and mission statement development.  This is the first that squarely addresses the leadership issues as well as the HR challenges that you will face when you publish your vision and mission and transform your organization into what you envision. If you are just looking for quick and dirty way to get a vision and mission statement hung in your lobby or emblazoned on your web site this book is not for you.  If, on the other hand, you have an idea where your company should be going and want a clear path to getting there get this book and take it to heart.	2001-06-14
1960329:US	53037408	RUKMINP3X2Y4W	0071371788	809923039	e-Strategy, Pure & Simple: Connecting Your Internet Strategy to Your Business Strategy	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Basic business strategy with some interesting nuances	There is nothing new or Earth-shattering in this book - it's about employing strategy within the context of e-commerce.  The authors' agenda, from the preface, is to &quot;... demystify the Internet ... which then empowers CEOs and their key executives to design their own Internet strategy and control their own destiny.&quot;<br />The central theme of the book is wrapped in three imperatives: (1) clarify your business strategy, (2) construct an &quot;e-strategy&quot;, and (3) integrate the business and e-strategy.<br />While the ideas and approach are straightforward and basic, the real gems are contained in the interviews with key executives who have creatively conceived of viable (and innovative) e-strategies and have successfully integrated them into their overall business strategy.  In my opinion the most interesting interview was with Philip C. Kantz (CEO, TAB Products). TAB Products makes folders, labels and other commodity items.  Not the sexy stuff of e-strategies, but that's exactly what this executive crafted and it transformed his entire business. Not surprisingly the creative part of the strategy was minor compared to the leadership abilities that were required to transform a vision into action and results.  This interview alone summarizes the entire message of the book. Each of the other four interviews provides insights about the creative, leadership and technical challenges of devising and implementing an e-strategy.<br />As you read this book don't be so quick to conclude that it is only stating the obvious. There are some wonderful ideas to be gleaned, inspiration and encouragement from executive interviews, and some subtle nuances in the authors' approach.  The structure and message of the book puts e-strategy and the Internet into the familiar framework of business strategy 101.  You'll benefit from the interviews, and will have a path marked with familiar landmarks towards implementing an e-strategy.	2001-06-13
1960480:US	53037408	R2LPXKLHXCXT6N	0818668520	97836736	Software Reliability and Testing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gold mine of SQA and reliability ideas and techniques	This book is a collection of 14 essays on software quality and testing that has been compiled and edited by Dr. Hoang Pham. The material is more suited for academic, R&amp;D and advanced software quality assurance professionals, and is highly technical in nature. Dr. Pham is one of the top names in software reliability and quality.  His credentials as author, contributor or editor of over 50 articles and 18 books, and his forward-thinking research ensures that the essays in this book represents solid material.  Although this compilation of essays was published in 1995 they are still applicable and are an excellent source of material for researchers and advanced practitioners.<br />The essays are divided among two main topics: (1) software reliability and (2) theoretical testing and assurance techniques.<br />Essay titles that focus on reliability are: Realistic Assumptions for Software Reliability Models, Predicting Software Development Errors Using Software Complexity Metrics,  The Infeasibility of Quantifying the Reliability of Life-Critical Real-Time Software,  Reliability Analysis of Large Software Systems: Defect Data Modeling, A Micro Software Reliability Model for Prediction and Test Apportionment, and Optimization Models for Selection of Programs Considering Cost &amp; Reliability.<br />The essays that focus on testing and assurance techniques are: Software Reliability Measurement in Imperfect Debugging Environment and its Application,  Are We Testing for True Reliability?, Safety Arguments, Software and System Reliability,  Application of Software Reliability Modeling to Product Quality and Test Process,  Some New Models of Software Testing with Performance Comparisons, Software Fault Content and Reliability Estimations for Telecommunication Systems,  Adapting, Correcting, and Perfecting Software Estimates: A Maintenance Metaphor, and Enhanced Availability of Transaction Oriented Systems using Failure Tests.<br />Each essay is an in-depth monograph on its topic.  The essays that I personally thought were highlights of this book were Predicting Software Development Errors Using Software Complexity Metrics, Adapting, Correcting, and Perfecting Software Estimates: A Maintenance Metaphor, and Enhanced Availability of Transaction Oriented Systems using Failure Tests. From each of these I learned some interesting techniques that were directly applicable to applications and service delivery from QA and support points of view that could be incorporated into real-life processes.<br />Do not let the age of this book deter you - it's as applicable to reliability and quality challenges we face in 2001 as it was when written in 1995.  If you are among the target audience I cited above this will prove to be a valuable resource, and a gold mine of advanced ideas on reliability and quality.its topic.  The essays that I personally thought were highlights of this book were Predicting Software Development Errors Using Software Complexity Metrics, Adapting, Correcting, and Perfecting Software Estimates: A Maintenance Metaphor, and Enhanced Availability of Transaction Oriented Systems using Failure Tests. From each of these I learned some interesting techniques that were directly applicable to applications and service delivery from QA and support points of view that could be incorporated into real-life processes.<br />Do not let the age of this book deter you - it's as applicable to reliability and quality challenges we face in 2001 as it was when written in 1995.  If you are among the target audience I cited above this will prove to be a valuable resource, and a gold mine of advanced ideas on reliability and quality.	2001-06-13
1960602:US	53037408	R2BB24RJBVEKST	354041441X	900593822	Software Quality: State of the Art in Management, Testing, and Tools	Books	5	8	8	N	N	For advanced SQA pros and academics	The first two parts of this 3-part book are a collection of monographs and essays on software quality management and certification and testing topics.  The third part is devoted to software quality and testing tools.<br />Since I am more interested in processes and techniques I focused more on the first two parts, which were truly state-of-the-art with respect to subject matter and approach.<br />Among Part I's highlights were the essays on knowledge and quality management, and cost benefit models for quality assurance.  Other essays (paradigms of software quality management and software development, and process-oriented software quality management) were well written and filled with original thinking, but this ground has been covered by so many authors that my interest waned.<br />Part II, Certification and Testing, had an excellent essay on testing web and e-business applications that I particularly liked.  If you are in the embedded or safety-critical development and QA environment, the essay on certifying and testing these systems is definitely worthwhile.<br />This 288 page book is copiously illustrated with 99 figures and 14 tables. If you are looking for a book on software testing this is not it. It is best suited for advanced SQA practitioners and academics. If you are among that group it is a worthwhile read and will give you fresh ideas and keep you up-to-date in your professional reading. For the audience I cited it is a five star book and highly recommended.	2001-06-13
1961499:US	53037408	R38Q8SJ438IPRO	0201709120	592766464	Effective Requirements Practices	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Top-notch addition to RM body of knowledge	This book is more applicable to product and system engineering than software requirements, but contains information and techniques that will be useful to software engineers as well. Regardless of the effort, product/systems engineering or software, this book is a wonderful resource for project managers who are responsible for any kind of project because of the impact bad requirements have on cost and schedule.<br />The approach used is a ten-step process for requirements elicitation and management, with a chapter devoted to each of the steps.  The steps are: Commit to the approach, Establish and utilize a Joint Team responsible for the requirements, Define the real customer needs, Use and continually improve a requirements process, Iterate the system requirements and architecture,Use a mechanism to maintain project communication, Select familiar methods and maintain a set of work products, Perform requirements verification and validation, Provide an effective mechanism to accommodate requirements changes, Perform the development effort using known, familiar proven industry, organizational, and project best practices.<br />While these steps are both logical and represent common wisdom, they are not easy to implement and manage.  This is where the book is valuable because the author provides insights and advice for implementing and managing each step.<br />There are some surprises in the book. For example, the chapter on defining real customer needs did not address quality function deployment (QFD), which is a common tool for accomplishing this task.  However, the requirements attribute matrix that is discussed is closely related to QFD and is an effective tool.  I particularly liked the PREview process that is provided.  This requirements process stands for process and requirements engineering viewpoints, and was first published in Requirements Engineering: A Good Practice Guide by Sommerville and Sawyer.  I also liked the operational concept definition template that is provided in the book, which is an excellent format with which to not only document requirements, but to place them within the context of scope.  This is an important point from a project manager's perspective. Chapter 12 is also valuable in that it's a five-page checklist for the requirements-related activities that should be used on every project.<br />Interestingly, while the author provides a comprehensive list of requirements management tools that is among the most complete listing I have seen in print he misses NASA's Automated Requirement Measurement (ARM) tool that is public ally available.<br />Mr. Young makes good use of illustrations, tables and statistics throughout this book to reinforce his approach, which makes this a valuable reference as well as a &quot;how-to&quot; text. I highly recommend this book to PMs managing a product, system or software project, and to anyone who is a requirements practitioner.at is provided in the book, which is an excellent format with which to not only document requirements, but to place them within the context of scope.  This is an important point from a project manager's perspective. Chapter 12 is also valuable in that it's a five-page checklist for the requirements-related activities that should be used on every project.<br />Interestingly, while the author provides a comprehensive list of requirements management tools that is among the most complete listing I have seen in print he misses NASA's Automated Requirement Measurement (ARM) tool that is public ally available.  <br />Mr. Young makes good use of illustrations, tables and statistics throughout this book to reinforce his approach, which makes this a valuable reference as well as a &quot;how-to&quot; text. I highly recommend this book to PMs managing a product, system or software project, and to anyone who is a requirements practitioner.	2001-06-13
1962057:US	53037408	R1WLXT8WP9A3U0	0201702096	125960157	Virtual Private Networks: Technologies and Solutions	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Clearly written book on underlying technologies for VPNs	This book is a great starting point for understanding the business reasons for implementing VPNs and the underlying technology.  Although the book gets moderately technical it is written in such a manner that it can be understood by business process owners who have exposure to technology, as well as IT professionals who need to understand the network and security aspects of virtual private networks.<br />The focus of the book is the underlying technologies more than VPN solutions, and the emphasis is on VPN security infrastructure and services. Part I covers what VPNs are, how they can be employed as solutions to business requirements, and a basic overview of the concepts and technologies. I like the clear way the authors present this material, and the fact that it is completely accessible to non-technical readers.<br />Part II delves deeper into each facet of the underlying technology, covering the major topics: tunneling, IPsec, authentication, PKI, and access control.  This part of the book will quickly get a network specialist up-to-speed on security services provided by VPNs, and goes deep enough to give a clear understanding of the security infrastructure in language that a network specialist will be comfortable with. It is also an excellent resource for system architects who need to see the big picture and fully understand how this technology set fits into an coherent architecture.  It is especially valuable to architects and IS/IT professionals from other technical domains who are working in the health care industry because the infrastructure and services discussed are directly applicable to HIPAA requirements.<br />VPN solutions discussed in Part III is a wide survey of the components needed to implement a VPN.  The chapter on VPN clients is must reading for anyone who is designing or implementing a VPN solution, as is the chapter on network and service management.  Both of these chapters address issues that I have not come across in other books.  For example, some of the issues with MS Windows VPN clients are potential &quot;gotchas&quot; that you need to be aware of in order to implement a completely secure (and supportable) VPN.<br />Overall:  this book provides a high-level view with enough technical detail to give you a good understanding of the capabilities and limitations of virtual private networks.  The writing is clear and readable, and the book is amply illustrated.  Moreover, both authors work for BBN, which has been a key force in the evolution of the Internet for over 30 years the book has an air of authority and credibility that is rare in other books of this genre.  I give it five stars for explaining a complex technology and for never losing sight of the business reasons for a VPN.le, some of the issues with MS Windows VPN clients are potential &quot;gotchas&quot; that you need to be aware of in order to implement a completely secure (and supportable) VPN.  <br />Overall:  this book provides a high-level view with enough technical detail to give you a good understanding of the capabilities and limitations of virtual private networks.  The writing is clear and readable, and the book is amply illustrated.  Moreover, both authors work for BBN, which has been a key force in the evolution of the Internet for over 30 years the book has an air of authority and credibility that is rare in other books of this genre.  I give it five stars for explaining a complex technology and for never losing sight of the business reasons for a VPN.	2001-06-12
1962415:US	53037408	R209BZDE3N8U7T	067232055X	969828892	Integration Models: Templates for Business Transformation (Sams White Book)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	One of the most important books on EAI published this year	Ms. Brown has given us a gift: a book that thoroughly describes the challenges of implementing integrated enterprise applications, and how to overcome those challenges using proven methods that address both business and technical issues.  This book is divided into four parts: (I) Techniques, (II) Catalog of Integration Models, (III) Applying Integration Models and (IV) Appendices.<br />The three chapters that comprise Part I sets the context for EAI, introduces integration models (which are, in essence, patterns) and discusses the environment for integration modeling.  I liked this part for the following reasons:  it focuses on business imperatives, and includes risk factors from a company and industry perspective; it bridges both business and technical views, and provides a frank discussion of the challenges faced by the implementation team.  One of the highlights of part I is the approach to selecting a project approach and advice on placing project deliverables in context.<br />Part II is a catalog of integration models that contains seven chapters, each devoted to a specific model template.  The templates are provided in a fixed format is closely aligned to Design Patterns (by Gamma, et al), making selection of the appropriate model for your organization or project straightforward.  The format is: Description, Discussion, When the Template Applies, Examples, Benefits and Consequences, Realization, EAI Applications to which it applies, and Templates that work well with the one discussed.  The seven integration models for which templates are provided are:  Cycle, Seed, Web, Flow, Wave, Ring, Cell and Tree. I thought it was interesting how the templates themselves could be classified by geometric shape, but as you read through them it makes sense.  Moreover, you begin to look at the integration models in a different way, which in turn, triggers creative thoughts.<br />The author intersperses case studies and technical discussions in Part III, Applying Integration Models.  The case studies are: Chapter 12-Enterprise Resource Planning and Chapter 15 - Integration in Telecommunications; technical discussions include: Chapter 13-Using Integration Models to Synthesize Industry Models and Chapter 14-Data Strategy, Warehousing, and Architecture with  Integration Models. The case studies and technical discussions not only added a dimension of credibility to Parts I and II, but reinforced one another.<br />Sample artifacts included in Appendix B are valuable.  I especially like the checklist of factors that indicate an increased need for integration, but the sample letters, and other documents are also useful.<br />This book is to implementing enterprise applications what David Linthicum's Enterprise Application Integration is to EAI architecture. As a side note, if you decide to check out Mr. Linthicum's book, get B2B Application Integration, which is a more updated version of his Enterprise Application Integration.  I not only give it a solid five stars, I also recommend it as one of the most important books available on EAI.n Models.  The case studies are: Chapter 12-Enterprise Resource Planning and Chapter 15 - Integration in Telecommunications; technical discussions include: Chapter 13-Using Integration Models to Synthesize Industry Models and Chapter 14-Data Strategy, Warehousing, and Architecture with                            Integration Models. The case studies and technical discussions not only added a dimension of credibility to Parts I and II, but reinforced one another.  <br />Sample artifacts included in Appendix B are valuable.  I especially like the checklist of factors that indicate an increased need for integration, but the sample letters, and other documents are also useful.<br />This book is to implementing enterprise applications what David Linthicum's Enterprise Application Integration is to EAI architecture. As a side note, if you decide to check out Mr. Linthicum's book, get B2B Application Integration, which is a more updated version of his Enterprise Application Integration.  I not only give it a solid five stars, I also recommend it as one of the most important books available on EAI.	2001-06-12
1963835:US	53037408	R13LNX2LC5LGIW	0442017464	71279120	Configuration Management for Software (Vnr Computer Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply the best and worth the effort to track down	Of all of the SCM books on my shelf this one is the best.  The writing is engaging because the authors narrate their own experiences while imparting a copious amount of technical information and guidance on SCM.  They use wry humor and case studies to reinforce their detailed description of the technical underpinnings and processes required to implement and manage SCM.<br />The first five chapters lay the foundation. Chapter 1 is introductory and provides the basic concepts.  Chapter 2 covers the major SCM activities in detail, and addresses both technical and managerial considerations.  Role and responsibilities of the software configuration manager is the topic of chapter 3. Forms, records and other essential SCM tools are covered in depth in chapter 4, with chapter 5 giving a wide survey of existing standards and procedures. The standards covered are primarily from the Federal Government and IEEE; however, the case studies in this chapter also include ISO 9000.<br />Chapters 6 through 8 cover how to implement and manage SCM.  The chapter I liked most in this group is 8, Adapting to the Organization.  The information will show you how to tailor SCM to fit within your particular organization and how to integrate it into your development processes.  Chapter 9 is an extended case study of how SCM was used in the Space Station Freedom project.  This chapter is a gold mine of best practices, as well as a dissertation of the challenges of applying SCM to a complex project. Chapter 10 reinforces chapters 8 and 9 by providing a conceptual framework for SCM, which contains some of the best case studies in the book.<br />Although this book is out of print there is a way to purchase used books.  This one pops up from time to time as available - the next time it does I strongly recommend that you grab a copy if you are serious about SCM.  This is a 5 star book and the best one among the dozen I own on the subject.	2001-06-11
1966501:US	53037408	R1SMVTL0DTF9PI	052179546X	482558670	Testing IT: An Off-the-Shelf Software Testing Process	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Lives up to its title!  Exceptionally valuable	This book lives up to its subtitle, &quot;An Off-the-Shelf Software Testing Process&quot;.  It is organized into an introduction (chapter 1) and three parts that consist of 17 chapters and 18 appendices.<br />The 12 chapters in Part 1 cover the basics of a traditional testing process.  Because this book's focus is not so much about teaching testing as it is about providing a process, this information is more of an anchor point to ensure that you understand the author's terminology, perspective and approach.  Covered in this part are: overview of testing, testing techniques at a high level, test planning and management, unit, integration and system testing, systems integration testing, user acceptance testing, operations acceptance testing, regression testing, test process improvement, and the introduction, adoption and maintenance of the testing process.<br />Some of the key strengths of Part 1, in my opinion, include how Mr. Watkins ties test stages to life cycle milestones using the V-model and the clear distinction made between functional and non-functional testing techniques.  I also liked the chapter layout for each testing technique, which presented each technique in a clear and consistent manner. The layout starts with an overview of the technique, gives the approach and test data requirements, roles and responsibilities, planning resources, inputs, techniques and outputs.  This layout clearly lends itself to plan-do-check-act or entry-task-validation-exit models used in mature quality organizations.<br />It's important to note that the processes are generic and need to be tailored to your organization based.  This is especially true of terms and definitions.  For example, my definition of user acceptance testing differs from the author's, as does my definition of Defect Removal Efficiency.  I did a search of both terms on the Internet and found a 60%/40% split in favor of the author regarding the definition of user acceptance testing, and a 75%/25% split in my favor with respect to the definition of Defect Removal Efficiency.  The significance of this is software testing, despite the growing body of knowledge, IEEE standard terminology and inclusion of KPAs in the CMM, is still hampered by imprecise terminology.  I am grateful that the author included a glossary in this book that succinctly gives his definitions.<br />Part 2 provides five chapters of case studies showing how testing processes are implemented in organizations.  These case studies are presented in a format that lends itself to comparative analysis:  organization overview, testing requirements unique to the organization, how the organization manages and plans testing, roles and responsibilities, testing phases, artifacts, and process improvement initiatives. This part of the book is a gold mine of best practices and ideas, and shows how five organizations implemented a viable testing process to meet their unique requirements.<br />The appendices are a collection of artifacts that you can tailor to your own testing process. This collection consists of TEMPLATES AND FORMS: A-Terms of Reference (scope and roles/responsibilities of the process), B-Testing Guide covering each of the testing techniques in Part 1,  C-Test Plan Template, D-Test Specification Template, E-Test Script Template, F-Test Result Record Template, G-Test Log Template, H-Test Certificate Template, I-Reuse Pack Checklist, J-Test Summary Report Template.  WORKED EXAMPLES: K-Equivalence Partition Example, L-Boundary Analysis Example, M-State Transition Example. CHECKLISTS AND OVERVIEWS: N-Automated Testing Tool Selection Criteria, O-Usability Testing Overview, P-Test Process Health Check and Q-Testing Object-Oriented Software.<br />Appendices A through P are also provided electronically via the URL provided in the book. They are in MS Word format. Note that the book and Part 3 make reference to a CD ROM, which does not exist. Also, the URL provided will redirect you to a home page on the publisher's web site and from there you will need to search for the book title, which leads to the book page and a hyperlink titled &quot;solutions to problem sets&quot;.  It's worth the trouble because the templates are the key artifacts of the &quot;Off-the-Shelf Software Testing Process&quot;.<br />This book is one of the most valuable testing references that I own. It will kick-start an implementation of a mature and effective testing process, and can be tailored to fit any organization's unique requirements. It earns a solid five stars and a place on my short list of testing books.blisher's web site and from there you will need to search for the book title, which leads to the book page and a hyperlink titled &quot;solutions to problem sets&quot;.  It's worth the trouble because the templates are the key artifacts of the &quot;Off-the-Shelf Software Testing Process&quot;.<br />This book is one of the most valuable testing references that I own. It will kick-start an implementation of a mature and effective testing process, and can be tailored to fit any organization's unique requirements. It earns a solid five stars and a place on my short list of testing books.	2001-06-09
1992545:US	53037408	R2A7AQH3LA9A76	0970035217	200856899	ERP: A-Z Implementer's Guide For Success	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the most complete and sensible guides I've read	The 20 chapters in this remarkable book make this a true A to Z implementation guide.  The author starts with a clearly written intoduction to ERP and follows this with a detailed overview of concepts and design.  The third chapter covers functional modules that need to be incorporated into ERP systems, which completes the foundation.<br />Chapters 4 through 8 cover the implemention details, beginning with life cycles and sequences, addressing project teams and transition strategies, and the nuts and bolts considerations of data conversion, prototyping and testing.  The information in these chapters is a good basis for an implementation work breakdown structure.<br />I liked the chapters on organizational change management and consultants, which are critical success factors for implementing an ERP system.  I also thought that the chapter on project planning sessions was a highlight of this book and something that anyone who is involved in managing the implementation needs to carefully read.<br />The remainder of the book covers developing a request for proposal and evaluating vendor responses, total quality management, ROI and other factors that are extremely important to ERP (or any system) implementation project.<br />Some of the things that make this book invaluable include:  (1) clear writing and innovative use of graphics to display relationships, comparisons and workflow; (2) the fact that each chapter can stand alone as a focused and complete discussion of the topic covered, and (3) the common sense approach taken by the author.<br />I strongly recommend that this book be augmented by Scorecard System For World Class Enterprise Resource Management by the same author.  These two books combined with provide you with all of the information you need to select and successfully implement an ERP system that fully meets your requirements.	2001-05-20
1993022:US	53037408	R397V9S30I0GO4	0471406775	61407372	E-Business and ERP: Rapid Implementation and Project Planning	Books	4	41	42	N	Y	Strong project approach, some gaps - overall: valuable	This book provides a sound approach to planning and managing an ERP rapid implementation project, but falls short of the mark on the &quot;E-Business&quot; part alluded to in the title.<br />First, the strengths:  the rapid implementation roadmap that is the topic of chapter 2 is thorough and well thought out.  The phases are commit [to the project], start, manage, analyze, configure, test, change, support, convert, prepare, go live and improve.  The roadmap gives both structure to a project plan and breaks it down into manageable pieces.<br />Chapter 3 covers vendor selection, and provides excellent material for developing RFIs and RFPs and evaluating responses from vendors.  Among the best practices given here are identifying key requirements, focusing on what is essential and using a proof-of-concept approach.  Managing the rapid implementation, chapter 4's topic, is comprehensive and is consistent with sound project management practices.  Key areas that are particularly strong address taking a deliverables-based approach, managing scope and project issue management.  These are the ingredients of a successful implementation and the author covers them in depth.  Chapter 5 covers the people part of the equation by providing guidance on how to organize the implementation team, roles and responsibilities, and managing change. My favorite two chapters are 6 and 8.  Chapter 6 addresses nine essential factors for success, the best (in my opinion) is the rule that no reengineering is allowed during the implementation.  This is sage advice because if you attempt to take advantage of opportunities to reengineer you are going to quickly drift outside of project scope, not to mention slowing to a crawl what is supposed to be a rapid implementation.  Chapter 8, my other favorite chapter, gives a list of &quot;project accelerators&quot;, which are methods or processes that will ensure that the rapid implementation is rapid.<br />Weaknesses:  (1)  The author does not address E-business despite the title of this book.  I am going to assume that the publisher insisted on including that in the title.  (2) There are some glaring gaps in the author's &quot;eXtended Enterprise System&quot; (EXS) framework.  He cites six layers using the technical infrastructure as the foundation and moving up through a transactional backbone, advanced applications, cross-application repository and a management dashboard as the capstone.  What is missing from the picture is middleware, including transaction monitors, message queuing and the other &quot;glue&quot; that holds together an enterprise architecture.  While this book is more suited for project managers, the omission is serious because the middleware layer increases the scope and complexity of an ERP project as well as the cost.  (3)  Technology support issues (chapter 7) was not strong in identifying release criteria to production, not the artifacts that production needs in order to support an ERP system.  Release to production is a critical point in the life cycle that affects IT service delivery, as well as operational considerations (performance and capacity baselines, workload scheduling, etc.).<br />Recommendation:  The rapid implementation approach given in this book is complete and attainable. The author gives practical advice that can be applied to not only ERP implementations, but other system implementations as well.  As such, this is a good book for project managers and upper IT management.  If you note the gaps I cited above and take them into account, this book will lead you through a successful implementation.  I am subtracting a star for the misleading title and the weaknesses, but still highly recommend this book.s E-business despite the title of this book.  I am going to assume that the publisher insisted on including that in the title.  (2) There are some glaring gaps in the author's &quot;eXtended Enterprise System&quot; (EXS) framework.  He cites six layers using the technical infrastructure as the foundation and moving up through a transactional backbone, advanced applications, cross-application repository and a management dashboard as the capstone.  What is missing from the picture is middleware, including transaction monitors, message queuing and the other &quot;glue&quot; that holds together an enterprise architecture.  While this book is more suited for project managers, the omission is serious because the middleware layer increases the scope and complexity of an ERP project as well as the cost.  (3)  Technology support issues (chapter 7) was not strong in identifying release criteria to production, not the artifacts that production needs in order to support an ERP system.  Release to production is a critical point in the life cycle that affects IT service delivery, as well as operational considerations (performance and capacity baselines, workload scheduling, etc.).<br />Recommendation:  The rapid implementation approach given in this book is complete and attainable. The author gives practical advice that can be applied to not only ERP implementations, but other system implementations as well.  As such, this is a good book for project managers and upper IT management.  If you note the gaps I cited above and take them into account, this book will lead you through a successful implementation.  I am subtracting a star for the misleading title and the weaknesses, but still highly recommend this book.	2001-05-19
2002294:US	53037408	R1ODMZRGDN1KDK	0079132715	261669443	Software Reliability Engineering	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Takes software reliability from theory to practical process	This book takes Mr. Musa's out-of-print classic, Software Reliability: Measurement, Prediction, Application, to the next level.  Where his first book spawned an entire body of knowledge and approach to software reliability, this one adds a structured process and extends the foundation provided by the original book into a discipline that is practiced by mature organizations.<br />The process, called SRET or software reliability engineered testing, is six-step model comprised of the following steps:<br />(1) List associated systems - includes base products and variations to identify scope and coverage.<br />(2) Develop operational profiles - break the system down into logical tasks and rate of occurrence (expressed as probabilities)<br />(3) Define &quot;just right&quot; reliability - this is the tough part and is thoroughly covered.  The essential elements of this step include: determining failure (discrepancy between system behavior and user requirements) and faults (system implementation defects that trigger failures).  You next determine the \\"just right\\" level of reliability by determining a strategy for measuring failure intensities.  This is done by computing a failure intensity objective (FIO) for each system. Brush up on probability and statistics for this step because it is performed using hard quantitative methods.<br />(4) Prepare for testing - this is the traditional approach employing a test plan and associated test cases, with a distinct difference:  the test cases are tied to operational profiles, breaking down a complex process into manageable elements.  The more complex the software being tested the more manageable the test process becomes using this structured approach.<br />(5) Execute test - the book provides detailed information on product testing (also known as user acceptance testing and called &quot;feature testing&quot; in this book), load and regression testing.  This full suite of testing types is excellent and shows the detail with which Mr. Musa approaches reliability and quality.<br />(6) Guide test - this final step in the SRET covers both test and release management.  There is much more to this step than simple test management, it also covers continuous metrics gathering and failure prediction.<br />Also included are a chapter on software reliability models and a template for deploying SRET.<br />This book differs from Mr. Musa's earlier book in one significant way:  it transforms the theoretical approach given in Software Reliability: Measurement, Prediction, Application into a practical approach that can be implemented as a process.  The core material from the first book is included in this one, with refinements that have evolved since Mr. Musa's 1987 classic.  It merits 5 stars and is essential reading for developers and SQA professionals who design and build mission- or safety-critical applications.Mr. Musa approaches reliability and quality.<br />(6) Guide test - this final step in the SRET covers both test and release management.  There is much more to this step than simple test management, it also covers continuous metrics gathering and failure prediction.<br />Also included are a chapter on software reliability models and a template for deploying SRET.<br />This book differs from Mr. Musa's earlier book in one significant way:  it transforms the theoretical approach given in Software Reliability: Measurement, Prediction, Application into a practical approach that can be implemented as a process.  The core material from the first book is included in this one, with refinements that have evolved since Mr. Musa's 1987 classic.  It merits 5 stars and is essential reading for developers and SQA professionals who design and build mission- or safety-critical applications.	2001-05-12
2003354:US	53037408	R2HFRXFN255C9D	0970035209	987574529	1: Scorecard System For World Class Enterprise Resource Management : For ERP Systems	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Incredible resource, amazing value and unique approach	This is much more than a book - it's a book/service combination that is one of the most unique concepts for marrying traditional paper-based products with the web.<br />What you get:  132-page guidebook that provides (1) a structured process for evaluating the alignment of your ERP system to business processes, (2) a comprehensive list of questions to which you need to provide answers, and (3) a web URL for entering your responses, which generates a report.  The report shows where you are and what areas need attention.<br />The book:  Contains an 8-stage process flow for the evaluation. (1) identify need, (2) review scorecard system, (3) choose sections to be answered, (4) go online, (5) enter responses into system provided by the publisher, (6) receive scorecard and comparison report by e-mail, (7) review results, and (8) implement process improvement strategies as indicated by the report.<br />The questions in the book are divided into key process areas as follow:  (1) General questions, (2) Environmental characteristics, (3) Initial decision criteria, (4) Project Management, (5) TQM, JIT and continuous improvement, (6) Strategic planning, (7) People systems, (8) Training and education, (9) Performance measurements, (10) Ccommunication infrastructure, (11) Product design and development, and (12) Operational set-up, planning and control.  The questions elicit scaled responses; i.e., you are given a range from 1-10 as a possible response to most questions.<br />The service:  Go to the URL provided, select Scorecard, select the key process areas for which you want an assessment and commence inputting your responses.  You will receive an e-mail within a few days with the results and a baseline with which to compare where you are with where you should be based on survey averages.  The format of the report is: question number in rows and statistics in columns as follow:  Question, Result (your response), survey average for all surveys received, the difference between you and the average, industry average (based on the SIC code you entered), the difference between your average and your industry's average, software average computed per your specific ERP package and the average of all respondents using that package, and the difference between your score and the software average.  This information is the basis of a gap analysis that is your responsibility to perform.  It highlights where you stand in comparison to other respondents to the survey as an aggregate average, by industry and by specific software package.<br />Some points about the service:  The more responses to the survey the bigger the difference between your ranking and the averages, which means that you should consider re-taking the survey at intervals (6 months is a safe interval). The web page claims that it is best viewed with Internet Explorer - I had no problems navigating around using Netscape version 4.77.  Also, there are no hidden costs - the survey report is truly at no additional charge.  Finally, the suggested strategy is to perform the evaluation in stages.  This will allow you to focus on key process areas and take action to remedy gaps instead of being overwhelmed by an overly ambitious initiative.<br />The package as a whole:  The book itself is a valuable resource to consultants because the question bank provided is usually closely guarded intellectual property.  I personally intend to use it as the basis for a risk assessment spreadsheet, which will be a valuable tool.  The service, including the report generated, will literally save a company tens of thousands of dollars in consulting fees.<br />I am more than pleased with this book - I am amazed. The quality of the questions, the approach itself, and the reports are valuable beyond what I imagined when I purchased this book.  It gets 5 stars and my strongest recommendation to anyone, business or technical, who wants to take a snapshot of how well their ERP system is aligned to their business processes.sses.	2001-05-11
2008630:US	53037408	R2NOMMZOWSFOMZ	0130205842	703564326	Verification and Validation of Modern Software-Intensive Systems	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Essential book for user acceptance testing &amp; contract mgt.	Verification and validation are two important, if often misunderstood, aspects of delivering the big three: Reliability, Availability and Support.  One of the reasons for this is technology has outstripped methods, which is what this book rectifies.  V&amp;V is not pre-production testing where the goal is to break the application or product, but is a functional qualification test (also known as user acceptance test or product test), where the goal is to ensure that what you have meets requirement specifications. Specifically, verification answers &quot;did we build the right thing?&quot; and validations answers &quot;did we build it right?&quot;<br />It's one thing to perform V&amp;V for products and monolithic applications and quite another to apply these techniques to more complex systems.  This book updates the V&amp;V body of knowledge by showing how to perform V&amp;V in objected-oriented and distributed environments, with an emphasis on specific system types such as data warehouses, inter- and internet systems, etc.<br />The authors start with a description of processes, models and standards that give you a foundation for incorporating V&amp;V, and then discuss tools and methodologies, documentation and metrics.  I especially liked the metrics provided, which will allow you to effectively and accurately measure your V&amp;V process.<br />Another strong point about this book is that it addresses objected-oriented methods, which are difficult to verify and validate.  Here is a real life example why:  a global 50 company bought into a directory-enabled security scheme as the basis for their enterprise security. Such schemes are object-oriented and complex. At no point did the company verify or validate what they were buying into, either as a concept of the component products.  Worse, the consulting company that &quot;sold&quot; it did not have any design proofs which could be verified and validated, nor did the consulting company or the global 50 company develop any structured acceptance testing.  Net result:  there is a large company that is betting the security of its internal and external applications on an unverified and unvalidated security scheme.  The information in this book would have given both parties a structured approach with which to ensure that what looks good on paper actually works when you implement the design, especially with products that bring with them their own set of flaws. I cited this true story to underscore the value of V&amp;V and to show how often it is not used for mission-critical systems.<br />The coverage of complex system types and development approaches in this book is must reading by anyone in QA, especially if QA is only performing pre-production testing.  V&amp;V is a necessary stage in the development (or procurement) process to ensure that what is eventually going into production conforms to what was specified.  If your organization does not perform V&amp;V then this book is all the more important, and will give you the processes and approaches to integrate it into your QA organization.  If you are a QA practitioner who is currently performing V&amp;V this book will provide techniques and approaches that will help you meet the growing challenges of verifying and validating increasingly complex systems.  Finally, if you are a vendor manager for outsourced application development or application services that are provided from an ASP this book with give you a complete approach to verifying and validating the product or services for which you are contracting.p any structured acceptance testing.  Net result:  there is a large company that is betting the security of its internal and external applications on an unverified and unvalidated security scheme.  The information in this book would have given both parties a structured approach with which to ensure that what looks good on paper actually works when you implement the design, especially with products that bring with them their own set of flaws. I cited this true story to underscore the value of V&amp;V and to show how often it is not used for mission-critical systems.<br />The coverage of complex system types and development approaches in this book is must reading by anyone in QA, especially if QA is only performing pre-production testing.  V&amp;V is a necessary stage in the development (or procurement) process to ensure that what is eventually going into production conforms to what was specified.  If your organization does not perform V&amp;V then this book is all the more important, and will give you the processes and approaches to integrate it into your QA organization.  If you are a QA practitioner who is currently performing V&amp;V this book will provide techniques and approaches that will help you meet the growing challenges of verifying and validating increasingly complex systems.  Finally, if you are a vendor manager for outsourced application development or application services that are provided from an ASP this book with give you a complete approach to verifying and validating the product or services for which you are contracting.	2001-05-06
2009476:US	53037408	RVYVMCJEP96H6	0156072394	347343268	2001 Professional's Guide to Process Improvement: Maximizing Profit, Efficiency, and Growth (with CD-ROM)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Will jumpstart your project and save significant time	This is the second book I have read by Team Lientz and Rea. It provides a clear roadmap to implementing process improvement, and does so with structure and a rich set of tools on the accompanying CD ROM.<br />Book:  This is a step-by-step guide for process improvement projects.  With the exception of the last two chapters (managing the project and examples) the material is sequential and needs to be read and used in order.  I rarely read introductions, but in the case of this book I am glad I did because it  sets the context and provides questions and a checklist that will prove invaluable as you go through the book.<br />Critical success factors are the key to process improvement initiatives and this is where the book starts.  Next you are lead through the development of a project plan that establishes your direction and the time and resources that need to be devoted.  This is a go/no-go hurdle to determine the cost/benefit of a process improvement initiative. You are then lead through the tasks and deliverables of business analysis and technology/process assessment to nail down the &quot;as-is&quot; processes.  The section on determining the new process, and the follow-on section on implementation and measuring results are definitely based on best practices.  The authors' approach is to the point and complete.  I especially liked the chapters on defining and measuring success, and follow-up after implementation - both of which are too often glossed over at the end of a project.  Also valuable was the chapter on measuring strategic systems, which is a mature step in a process improvement initiative that is rarely done. Overall:  an exhaustively complete set of steps for implementing process improvement that is augmented by a well-written chapter on how to manage the initiative, and a collection of examples and outsourcing and downsizing considerations.  This book could be the project manual for an internal process improvement initiative as well as a manual of methods and procedures for a consulting firm.<br />Software: The array of software tools that come with this book is simply incredible and will cut hundreds of hours off of the planning and execution of your initiative (or if you're consulting company, provide ready-made tools).  There are three Microsoft Access databases: Issues, Lessons learned and planning issues. Each database has well-designed data entry screens and numerous reports. There are also 114 Excel spreadsheets that are both numbered by project step and descriptive name. The same numbering/naming scheme applies to the 21 Word documents that are checklists, templates and other artifacts that you will need in order to effectively execute a process improvement project.  The authors also provide ten PowerPoint presentations for you to fill in the blanks and present to stakeholders.  And, the best for last, there are six Microsoft Project plans: two that illustrate an example project used in the book, two Gantt charts, a resource pool and an outsourcing project plan. Each is not only thorough, but they all are well-formed.  By that I mean they have properly developed dependencies and all of the important project views.  The first thing I do when I see an MS Project plan is switch from Gantt to PERT view to see if the developed knew what he or she was doing (dependencies that make sense and logical, etc.)  The authors do.<br />This is a complete plan and collection of tools that (1) approaches process improvement in a carefully thoughtout, effective manner, and (2) will jump start any project and save hundreds of not thousands of hours from the planning and execution process.  Moreoever, you will benefit from the authors' extensive experience and will do the right things the right way of you follow their step-by-step procedures and heed their advice.  Five solid stars and my highest recommendation.ethods and procedures for a consulting firm.<br />Software: The array of software tools that come with this book is simply incredible and will cut hundreds of hours off of the planning and execution of your initiative (or if you're consulting company, provide ready-made tools).  There are three Microsoft Access databases: Issues, Lessons learned and planning issues. Each database has well-designed data entry screens and numerous reports. There are also 114 Excel spreadsheets that are both numbered by project step and descriptive name. The same numbering/naming scheme applies to the 21 Word documents that are checklists, templates and other artifacts that you will need in order to effectively execute a process improvement project.  The authors also provide ten PowerPoint presentations for you to fill in the blanks and present to stakeholders.  And, the best for last, there are six Microsoft Project plans: two that illustrate an example project used in the book, two Gantt charts, a resource pool and an outsourcing project plan. Each is not only thorough, but they all are well-formed.  By that I mean they have properly developed dependencies and all of the important project views.  The first thing I do when I see an MS Project plan is switch from Gantt to PERT view to see if the developed knew what he or she was doing (dependencies that make sense and logical, etc.)  The authors do.<br />This is a complete plan and collection of tools that (1) approaches process improvement in a carefully thoughtout, effective manner, and (2) will jump start any project and save hundreds of not thousands of hours from the planning and execution process.  Moreoever, you will benefit from the authors' extensive experience and will do the right things the right way of you follow their step-by-step procedures and heed their advice.  Five solid stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-05-05
2010134:US	53037408	R30AYMTB1W9L5Y	1580530982	178422872	Configuration Management The Missing link inf Web Engineering (Computing Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Addresses challenges, raises awareness &amp; gives case studies	Ms. Dart is a well known expert in configuration management and her a long list of published articles  are highly technical in nature.  However, this book is not one of her &quot;how to&quot; approaches. Instead, it provides a path towards best practices that are conspicuously missing in most web engineering and web site management endeavors.  My own background will add some context to my review.  I have developed and implemented policies, processes and procedures for both software configuration management (SCM) and change control for a number of companies.  SCM is an application delivery discipline that is key to product integrity and assurance during development and maintenance.  Change control is a service delivery discipline that ensures that changes released to the production environment are carefully controlled.  In the past the two were the concern of two entirely different domains (development and production), and only companies that had highly mature processes linking problem management, enhancements/bug fixes, SCM and release and production change management bridged the two domains.<br />The web changed that because cycle times compressed and are driven by business requirements, not technical considerations. The tried and true processes we employed for SCM and change control were barriers to meeting business requirements and something had to give.  Unfortunately, what gave was due diligence, which is well illustrated in figures 1.1 through 1.3 in this book.  These figures show typical best practice development/maintenance cycle and typical change request process employed in non-web based systems, and the &quot;fix it-publish it-fix&quot; it approach that is too common in web-centric systems.  This book provides the middle ground by examining how to implement processes and procedures that provide assurance without the barriers of the traditional approach to processes.<br />Ms. Dart begins this book with a broad description of web-centric computing and a list of nine major challenges faced by this paradigm.  This is foundation material that is more suited to managers, but is also valuable for technical staff who need to see the big picture.  She follows this with a description of what CM is. Nothing new here for those of us who have been practitioners, but this may be enlightening material for the bright, young wizards who are geniuses at coding and system integration, but have little-to-no idea about processes.  The next chapter, 4, covers tools from a functionality viewpoint.  The discussion of evolutionary and full-process tools will help define your tool requirements based on how you manage development and production. She also provides some excellent pointers on how to develop a benefit analysis and determine return on tool investment, which is something the bean counters will want to see considering how expensive most CM tools are.  Chapter 5 gives sound advice on selecting and implementing a CM tool.  This chapter is especially valuable because of the pointers on managing the RFP and vendor evaluation and selection process. Templates and checklists supporting this process are provided in the appendices.<br />The heart of this book for the practitioner and newcomer alike is chapter 6, which contains case studies of how major companies are using the more mainstream CM tools (ClearCase, Continuus, PVCS, and the like).  This chapter is full of ideas and shows typical challenges faced, and the solutions crafted, to balance the &quot;Internet-time&quot; driven implementations and releases with processes that support assurance and integrity.<br />This book is high-level and process-oriented. If you are seeking a down-in-the-dirt book on how to implement and manage CM in a web-centric environment look elsewhere.  However, if you want sound advice from a credible source about how to determine your requirements and develop processes and select the best tool, then this book provides value.  I give it five stars for raisingawareness and addressing the thorny problem of balancing traditional CM practices with the realities of web-centric computing cycle times.ing awareness and addressing the thorny problem of balancing traditional CM practices with the realities of web-centric computing cycle times.	2001-05-05
2015601:US	53037408	R3DUKEZAEYZWX9	0201674947	751700174	Design and Use of Software Architectures: Adopting and Evolving a Product-Line Approach	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Sound approach - ATAM proponents will like this book!	This book provides an interesting and comprehensive approach to designing software architectures. The author crystalized four concepts that have greatly influenced on my thinking: (1)focus on quality attributes during the design and evaluation, (2) a rich set of evaluation techniques, (3) dimensional views of the architecture design, and (4) a realistic approach to reusability.<br />The author's treatment of quality attributes provides a good foundation for the design process. The author's method of linking quality attributes to quality requirements is plain good practice and bears careful reading.  Traceability in any engineering or design effort is essential and the approach proposed needs to be included early in the life cycle.<br />There are major four evaluation techniques covered in the book: Scenario-based that examines  software qualities within the context of scenarios; simulation techniques that model the architecture in a simulation environment; mathematical modeling that uses statistics, probability and other techniques to predict qualities such as reliability, etc.; and experienced-based reasoning (see Brooks' Mythical Man Month for a good explanation of that!).<br />Among the most powerful concepts presented is dimensional views, which decompose the architecture into component and system views; business, organization, process and technology views; and development, usage and evolution views.  This approach ensures that an architecture's design proceeds in accordance with findings from a thorough analysis, and that all factors be considered and incorporated into the design.  If you are a proponent of SEI's Architecture Trade-off Analysis Method (ATAM) you will see some similarities. However, if you carefully examine the author's approach you will see some gaps:  the focus is not on trade-off points (although the dimensional views will certainly uncover trade-offs that have to be made), and ATAM does not address the evolution of the architecture. The product line approach proposed by the author does. Applying product line concepts to design and development promotes reusability, as well as providing a set of guidelines for evolving or changing the architecture.<br />Overall this is an excellent book that balances theory with a practical approach that is supported by case studies and real examples.  I view it as a philosophy on architecture design instead of a methodology.  It is a refreshing change from some of the architecture books I have read that are filled with dogmatic methods and &quot;design in a vacuum&quot;.  The approach proposed will link design to requirements, and will ensure that the architecture meets standards that are defined by quality attributes and not arbitrary design criteria.uct line approach proposed by the author does. Applying product line concepts to design and development promotes reusability, as well as providing a set of guidelines for evolving or changing the architecture.  <br />Overall this is an excellent book that balances theory with a practical approach that is supported by case studies and real examples.  I view it as a philosophy on architecture design instead of a methodology.  It is a refreshing change from some of the architecture books I have read that are filled with dogmatic methods and &quot;design in a vacuum&quot;.  The approach proposed will link design to requirements, and will ensure that the architecture meets standards that are defined by quality attributes and not arbitrary design criteria.	2001-04-30
2016053:US	53037408	R2F4VJ6B7UK1WF	0070381593	964692547	Schaum's Outline of Set Theory and Related Topics	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Provides essential knowledge to e-commerce security pros	This is an excellent introductory text on set theory.  It provides a fast and thorough coverage of the basics in an economical, if terse, style.  If you diligently go through this short 200 page book you will have a solid grasp of set theory that you can immediately use on the job.<br />I am an IT consultant so, although this book has a much wider audience, I am focusing my review on how this book applies to IT.  Because many e-commerce systems are being designed using role-based access controls that are independent of any specific application it is essential that the designers have a thorough understanding of set theory. As such, I think this book is an indispensable quick reference guide for IT security specialists, system architects and QA team members who need to brush op on the subject. These folks design, validate and verify systems that require strong security from within and outside of their organizations.  This type of work requires a provably correct design that can only be approached with set theory.  Moreover, the testing of the design, as implemented, also requires an understanding of this subject in order to develop a viable test strategy and produce test cases.  Given the fact that most IT professionals are not versed in set theory, this book is one of the quickest ways to get up-to-speed.<br />Among the highlights of this book are: the paradoxes in set theory, which is &quot;must reading&quot; regardless of how you intend to use the knowledge and skills that this book provides, algebra of propositions and logical reasoning.<br />This book is clearly written, however, the material requires a strong dedication to learning because the subject is complex and dry. No author, regardless of his or her writing skills can change that.  If you need to understand set theory and don't know where to begin, this book is one of the best starting points I have come across.	2001-04-30
2016409:US	53037408	R2O84MKHEL56ET	1558606971	334235549	Managing Reference Data in Enterprise Databases (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Unique and focused on an often overlooked subject	This unique book fills a much needed void in data architecture and system design.  Reference data is too often done as an afterthought when data architecture starts taking form.  Worse, it is too often misused, resulting in no clear boundaries between transaction data structures and real reference data.<br />Mr. Chisholm starts with definitions of what reference data is, and what it is not. He defines reference data as data that is used to categorize, classify, or otherwise qualify or constrain transaction data.  In other words, reference data is typically used in look-up tables. This brings us to what reference data is not - it's not transaction structure data, although it is commonly miscast into this role.  To see the difference using an example from my own experience, a two column table of reference data could be a digital phone manufacturer and the first three octets of an electronic serial number that is assigned to the manufacturer.  This is static.  Extending this example to another table of reference data that is keyed to the first could be the manufacturer and specific phone models.  While models come and go, this is still static and qualifies as reference data.  However, a designer might be tempted to include a table that lists a specific phone, keyed on the electronic serial number, but also keyed to a status, such as active, inactive or stolen.  This is a transaction structure because it changes based on a number of conditions, such as if the equipment is active and assigned to a customer, or in stock.  Therein lies the distinction and the theme of the book - reference data is static and other types of data are not.<br />The author covers basic database design concepts, types of reference data and their use, and managing reference data.  As the book progresses it is apparent that there is a lot more to consider about reference data than including look-up tables in a database.  This is amply shown in the chapter on the reference data life cycle where he discusses changing codes and descriptions.  Other issues that the data architect needs to take into consideration, thoroughly covered in this book, are mapping reference data, and implementing reference data in an existing database. Too often look-up tables are added to the schema with no thought to how it is going to be integrated and maintained. The author gives some sage advice on this topic.<br />I particularly liked the discussion on what I call &quot;reference data from hell&quot; - dates, times &amp; time zones, currency conversions and the such. Also germane because I recently did a consulting assignment in the Middle East is the treatment of foreign languages and translations.  I was most gratified, however, to see a chapter that addressed testing reference data and the associated problems with production vs. test data.  From personal experience I can attest that this is often overlooked and is a real problem if your data architecture uses a lot of reference data.  My main experience is wireless telecom provider billing systems which use a *lot* of reference data.  Mr. Chisholm's advice on testing is on the mark and should be heeded.<br />This book is valuable to any data architect or system designer, however, its real value is to those who are working with e-commerce systems and telecommunications billing systems, because both domains heavily use reference data and need the mature approach set forth in this book.e discusses changing codes and descriptions.  Other issues that the data architect needs to take into consideration, thoroughly covered in this book, are mapping reference data, and implementing reference data in an existing database. Too often look-up tables are added to the schema with no thought to how it is going to be integrated and maintained. The author gives some sage advice on this topic.<br />I particularly liked the discussion on what I call &quot;reference data from hell&quot; - dates, times &amp; time zones, currency conversions and the such. Also germane because I recently did a consulting assignment in the Middle East is the treatment of foreign languages and translations.  I was most gratified, however, to see a chapter that addressed testing reference data and the associated problems with production vs. test data.  From personal experience I can attest that this is often overlooked and is a real problem if your data architecture uses a lot of reference data.  My main experience is wireless telecom provider billing systems which use a *lot* of reference data.  Mr. Chisholm's advice on testing is on the mark and should be heeded.<br />This book is valuable to any data architect or system designer, however, its real value is to those who are working with e-commerce systems and telecommunications billing systems, because both domains heavily use reference data and need the mature approach set forth in this book.	2001-04-30
2020039:US	53037408	R2N4JK4NWVQY33	0156060752	400158033	1999 Strategic Systems Planning & Management with Disk	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Valuable if you have done this before, not for beginner	This is a difficult book to review because you can look at it as a strategic planning project package or an engagement manual for strategic planning consulting practices.  Let's start with what it is not:  it is not a &quot;how to&quot; guide for someone who has never done strategic planning. The instructions are too sparse for that.  In the hands of someone who has done strategic planning and has a few such projects under their belt this book and accompanying diskette of files is a valuable roadmap to performing a thorough strategic planning project.  The files, in Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access formats, comprise a ready-made set of tools with which to go about the task.<br />The main part of the book is a set of guidelines and worksheets for an 11-step strategic planning process.  The steps are: (1) performing internal and industry assessments, (2) technology assessment, (3) defining the system and technology architecture, (4) developing the plan, (5) developing individual strategic plans for business process areas, (6) presenting the plan, (7) marketing the plan internally, (8) setting the project slate, (9)implementing the plan's recommendations, (10) measuring the results, and (11) updating the plan.<br />As someone who has done this kind of work, most recently for a large Middle Eastern oil company, I can attest that the approach laid out in the book is straightforward and thorough.  Unfortunately I did not have this book when I embarked on the project.  The identified tasks and deliverables outlined in the book and the accompanying forms and templates would have significantly reduced the time it took to complete the project.  One of the most valuable files is the Access database, which comes with pre-defined tables and reports with which to track issues, tasks and deliverables.<br />Although this is not a &quot;how to&quot; book for inexperienced consultants, the authors did include a large number of small case studies to illustrate certain points.  I learned a lot from them and think that they added a touch of wisdom that comes from the authors' collective experience.<br />If you have one or more strategic planning projects under your belt this book will be one of the most valuable assets on your book shelf.  If you are starting out you might find the book frustrating because it assumes that you can fill in the blanks between the sparsely worded (but highly insightful) instructions. I highly recommend this book to the former group and give it 5 stars for the amazing amount of value packed in its 397 pages and floppy diskette.oints.  I learned a lot from them and think that they added a touch of wisdom that comes from the authors' collective experience.<br />If you have one or more strategic planning projects under your belt this book will be one of the most valuable assets on your book shelf.  If you are starting out you might find the book frustrating because it assumes that you can fill in the blanks between the sparsely worded (but highly insightful) instructions. I highly recommend this book to the former group and give it 5 stars for the amazing amount of value packed in its 397 pages and floppy diskette.	2001-04-26
2020861:US	53037408	REIIDK3K9ROA1	013030770X	260312885	IT Problem Management	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Unique book that fills a gap in service delivery literature	This book does, indeed, represent the first of its kind to extend problem management from a help desk function to an enterprise-wide process.  Moreover, it contains some of the best practices and processes I have ever seen in print.<br />Here are some of the highlights of what the book proposes that I know from experience works in an optimal fashion:<br />*Managed response model, where the help desk validates issues, prioritizes them and sends them immediately to the proper tier-2 group for resolution. This is far superior to a model where the help desk attempts to resolve the issue because too many go to tier-2 anyway. In my experience the managed response model more closely aligns IT to business (tier-2 also functions in an account management role if the process and organization is mature), and there is no hand-off (tier-2 owns the problem, the help desk owns the problem management process).<br />*The concept of a service catalog (sometimes called reference data or systems taxonomy) that allows you to capture metrics that lend themselves to Pareto analysis for system failures, etc.  This is important for prioritizing fixes and patches to be released in future versions of an application.<br />*Clear definitions of severity, priority, escalation and elevation.  These are too often misunderstood or misused terms, yet each is an important element of problem management.<br />*Detailed process for escalation and notification, which is not always implemented properly if implemented at all.<br />*Linking problem management to service level objectives and business goals.  This is alluded to in many help desk books, but rarely addressed in the detail that this book provides.<br />*Alignment of problem management to other related processes, notably, change management.  Finally, this dependency is recognized and discussed in a mainstream book. *Complete strategy for gathering and analyzing *relevant* metrics.  Some gaps, but the approach is on target.<br />*Service delivery as a concept and process is clearly described.  I cannot count the times I have had to define &quot;service delivery&quot; and distinguish it from &quot;application delivery&quot; (the former addresses supporting applications in production, the latter is how they are developed and released into production - operations and maintenance vs. development and project management).<br />Nothing is perfect, and here are some of the gaps I found:<br />*No clearly defined acceptance criteria for bringing applications into production - the service center (help desk) should get, at a minimum, service level agreements, application profiles, troubleshooting guides and a criticality profile for every application going into production.  These should be considered to be the minimum entry criteria for supporting an application.<br />*Excellent discussion on priorities was marred by a lack of discussion about how to go about establishing a uniform baseline.  I use a spreadsheet developed with a colleague that computes a criticality profile based on quantitative and qualitative measures.  In my opinion there needs to be an enterprise-wide set of criteria for determining the criticality of applications if prioritization of issues is going to be repeatable.<br />*While the metrics approach is comprehensive it does not address aged issues. Consider how much more effective and meaningful it is to know how many open issues are over 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks old, and how many from each of these buckets have been closed during a current reporting week.  Contrast this with a simpler total open vs. closed this week measurement and you will see how the simpler measurement does not show the true effectiveness of the support organization.<br />Despite the gaps I noted this book makes an invaluable contribution to service delivery and IT process maturity. Overall I am impressed with the author's approach and consider this book to be essential reading for help desk managers, service delivery professionals and upper IT management.  This book with jump-start service delivery if your company does not have clearly defined processes and procedures, and will give those that do some excellent ideas on raising the bar.  Gaps notwithstanding, this book earns a solid 5 stars.and upper IT management.  This book with jump-start service delivery if your company does not have clearly defined processes and procedures, and will give those that do some excellent ideas on raising the bar.  Gaps notwithstanding, this book earns a solid 5 stars.	2001-04-25
2021143:US	53037408	R1J7CNI7Z5CUAW	1580530109	154054047	How to Run Successful High-Tech Project-Based Organizations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Shows service companies how to attain world-class status	After working for various consulting companies I have discovered that the best have established processes that are based on project management and customer satisfaction, and the worst have no processes at all.  This book provides a recipe from going from worst to best.<br />This is the second of Mr. O'Connell's books that I have read. The first was Running Successful Projects, in which he provides excellent advice on how to effectively and skillfully manage projects.  In How to Run Successful High-Tech Project-Based Organizations he extends these practices to organizations, and does so by providing a step-by-step approach and a performance model that is the basis for company-wide processes.<br />He gives ten steps that every consulting or service company needs to incorporate, and does so in a clear and methodical manner. The steps themselves are easy, the barrier is leadership and management from the top.  Unfortunately, Mr. O'Connell doesn't address how to get management on board, but that is outside of the scope of this book.  My personal view is Mr. O'Connell advises and the wise will abide.<br />I thought that the two strongest chapters in this book were the organization-wide status report, which is sorely missing in too many companies, and the program for project-based organization. The organization-wide status report is the key to achieving teamwork because it communicates to the entire company and makes everyone a stakeholder in the company's success instead of relegating them to a cog in an impersonal machine.  This, by the way, is one of the most basic tenets of good leadership, and the lack of leadership is why too many consulting companies are in chaos, have abysmal records for execution, and poor client satisfaction.<br />Part three of this book offers the real roadmap to success: treating your organization as a project.  This is a unique approach and is really an excellent foundation for strategic and tactical planning.  I saw how this aspect of Mr. O'Connell's approach provides the essence of a vision, mission statement and values.<br />This book, if read and taken to heart at the right level in a consulting company (or any other kind of company that delivers services), can make the difference between achieving world-class status and extinction.  There would be less material for Dilbert cartoons if everyone read this book and applied the information.O'Connell's approach provides the essence of a vision, mission statement and values.  <br />This book, if read and taken to heart at the right level in a consulting company (or any other kind of company that delivers services), can make the difference between achieving world-class status and extinction.  There would be less material for Dilbert cartoons if everyone read this book and applied the information.	2001-04-25
2021548:US	53037408	R2ULUIHKWZ2JW8	0130219142	8104876	Project Management: Best Practices for IT Professionals	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	Great collection of best practices (has one glaring gap)	This is not a book about project management, rather it is a collection of IT project management best practices that will guarantee success if they are incorporated into your project management bag of tricks.<br />Mr. Murch has classified the best practices by providing a set of general practices and a set of specific ones that are aligned to each phase of the system development life cycle. This organization allows you to use this book as a resource guide when planning, estimating and scheduling the project, and as a desk reference when controlling it.<br />While some of the best practices are widely known (although not as widely practiced), the real gems in this book are: associating tasks with deliverables (too often the deliverable part of the task is not identified during planning, which results in tasks that do not contribute to project goals - if a task does not produce an associated deliverable you need to question why the task is included), project status reporting (the sample status report is excellent, except for one glaring omission discussed below), and the focus on quality assurance and configuration management metrics, which encompasses factors that are frequently missing from IT project controls.<br />The project status report example is a highlight of this book. Mr. Murch's proposed format will provide a succinct summary of a project's health, and give the project manager, his or her team and the sponsor an ongoing view of the project's status.  What mars this otherwise perfect format is an integrated view of cost and schedule performance is completely missing from the picture. He comes close by discussing estimate at completion vs. budget in the project cost performance of the report format, but does not connect it to the schedule performance.  A true best practice is to compute a schedule performance index (Budgeted Cost of Work Performed divided by Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled), and a cost performance index (Budgeted Cost of Work Performed divided by Actual Cost of Work Performed).  These link schedule and cost performance and show a true picture of the project's health.  I hope this gets rectified in the next edition of this excellent book.<br />Every chapter of this book contains at least one or more gems that will make you a better project manager.  I think every IT project manager should have a copy close by. We should applaud Mr. Murch's efforts for successfully cataloging and documenting these IT project management best practices.  Despite the incomplete picture his project status report gives this book deserves 5 stars.ed by Actual Cost of Work Performed).  These link schedule and cost performance and show a true picture of the project's health.  I hope this gets rectified in the next edition of this excellent book.<br />Every chapter of this book contains at least one or more gems that will make you a better project manager.  I think every IT project manager should have a copy close by. We should applaud Mr. Murch's efforts for successfully cataloging and documenting these IT project management best practices.  Despite the incomplete picture his project status report gives this book deserves 5 stars.	2001-04-25
2023457:US	53037408	R134FZK58L50R4	020159627X	944842844	Problem Frames: Analysing & Structuring Software Development Problems	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	A solid approach to identifying and analyzing problems	Short and sweet: this book is about structuring and analyzing problems, not about solutions.  In fact, from the beginning the author discusses the difficulty of focusing on problems and the tendency to jump to a solution before the problem is completely understood.<br />The structured approach that Mr. Jackson provides starts with bounding the problem and drilling down into subproblems, called problem frames.  I like his approach to bounding problems because it shows how to identify and isolate the problem and place it into its proper context.  This forces you to focus on the problem and not drift off into a premature solution.  I also like how he breaks down problems into manageable chunks by placing subproblems into domains through the use of projections (where subproblem domains overlap) and partitions (where associated phenomena are isolated). This allows you to see the whole problem in its magnificent splendor, which is the first step towards tackling each of its parts.<br />As Mr. Jackson's approach evolves you will find patterns emerging.  If you are a proponent of design patterns you will appreciate how he breaks problems into classes and five basic frames. This is a powerful concept because as you gain experience using problem frames you will be able to quickly classify problems and approach them in a consistent, repeatable manner.  This part of the book greatly influenced my way of thinking about problems, and the material is reinforced by examples given in subsequent chapters, as well as chapters devoted to variant and composite frames.<br />This book is ostensibly about problem frames and methods as they relate to software development.  However, the approach given in the book has much wider applications.  I was able to relate it to physical devices, processes and procedures. Moreover, Mr. Jackson's approach itself can be decomposed into a collection of useful tools and techniques that, taken individually, will prove invaluable in requirements analysis, design and related endeavors.  I am giving it 5 stars only because I cannot give it more.is, design and related endeavors.  I am giving it 5 stars only because I cannot give it more.	2001-04-23
2023712:US	53037408	R1FGTTV9EAVC71	0131774115	668330210	The Craft of Software Testing: Subsystems Testing Including Object-Based and Object-Oriented Testing	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Updates the craft	In the past I had been leery of whitebox testing because it was outside of the capabilities of most test engineers. However, this book has caused me to rethink my position for a number of reasons. Foremost is the fact that a good deal of web and e-commerce software these days is in the form of mark-up languages and scripts.  While these lend themselves to blackbox testing, added assurance can be provided by inspections and other whitebox methods.<br />This book prepares test professionals to expand their skills and knowledge to take on these tasks by providing a thorough education in logic, operators, syntax and expressions. He also thoroughly covers object-oriented testing, with excellent advice on how to deal with states, classes and inheritance in the development and execution of test plans and cases.<br />What impressed me the most, however, was the chapter on testing bug fixes and maintenance changes.  Mr. Marick's treatment of this topic is the best from among the dozen or so books I have on software testing.  He provides a checklist of questions that the test engineer needs to answer, which will provide the basis for a sound test strategy. While this chapter addresses whitebox testing, a lot of the material can be effectively used in blackbox testing as well. One of the gems that I got from this chapter is an awareness that test suites decay over time after software has been released into production. This is an eye-opener because many test groups add to their regression test case library as new patches and releases are promoted into production, but few validate these test cases on a periodic basis.<br />To the best of my knowledge there is no other book that solely addresses whitebox testing. There are certainly few books on testing, white- or blackbox, that cover as much territory or go as deep as this one.  Mr. Marick has provided a valuable addition to the testing profession with this book, and provides a clear path for test engineers to update their skills to meet the challenges of effectively testing web and e-commerce systems.ills to meet the challenges of effectively testing web and e-commerce systems.	2001-04-23
2024577:US	53037408	R3GQBAW2MJ08DC	0849308801	619988347	Information Security Risk Analysis	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	Completely changed my way of thinking	This book has radically influenced my approach to security risk management.  In the past I had nothing but disdain for any qualitative approach to risk assessment, whether it was for security, project management or disaster recovery.  My philosophy was that if you couldn't produce a probability curve you didn't have the full picture.  The problem with that philosophy is the very people for whom you are doing the assessment typically do not care about probability curves - if they understand them at all.<br />Mr. Peltier's approach, while not as scientific, is far more powerful because it involves all stakeholders through his unique facilitated risk analysis process (FRAP), and produces findings and assessments that are clear and easy for non-technical people to understand.  His approach is also thorough and business-focused. From the beginning this book grabs your attention. By page four I was completely drawn in by his use of a life cycle of the risk analysis process, and how he closely tied it to tasks and deliverables, and quality.  He explains the strengths and weaknesses of qualitative analysis, then moves into a chapter that describes his approach to performing it. This is where I became sold. The approach is comprehensive and task-oriented.  Every key factor, from financial loss to legal implications, are covered and qualitatively assessed using a valuation score.  This section also has numerous checklists, tables and data with which to perform the analysis.  These are augmented in the next chapter on value analysis, and by the time I finished it I was not only &quot;sold&quot;, but a proponent of this approach.<br />The heart of this book and approach is the facilitated risk analysis process that extends the process to a team of stakeholders.  The value is that the business itself is an active participant and assumes ownership of the findings, deliverables and action plan.  I contrasted this with my past approach and saw that one of the reasons why assessments done by &quot;experts&quot; were difficult to move into the implementation phase is because the so-called beneficiaries of the work couldn't relate to the reasons or importance.  Using Mr. Peltier's approach, information security becomes everyone's responsibility - an ideal situation in the eyes of any security professional.<br />The remainder of the book is filled with case studies and more tables and checklists.  In fact, if you purchased this book for the tables and checklists alone you would be getting a bargain. My only complaint is these were not provided in electronic format as well.<br />If you perform information security risk analysis, or business continuity or disaster recovery planning this book is &quot;must reading&quot;.  Others outside of the primary audience who will find this book valuable include project managers (the qualitative risk approach will be equally effective in project planning and control), and facilities managers.  This book earns a solid 5 stars and Mr. Peltier earns my gratitude for showing me a better way.ts done by &quot;experts&quot; were difficult to move into the implementation phase is because the so-called beneficiaries of the work couldn't relate to the reasons or importance.  Using Mr. Peltier's approach, information security becomes everyone's responsibility - an ideal situation in the eyes of any security professional.<br />The remainder of the book is filled with case studies and more tables and checklists.  In fact, if you purchased this book for the tables and checklists alone you would be getting a bargain. My only complaint is these were not provided in electronic format as well.  <br />If you perform information security risk analysis, or business continuity or disaster recovery planning this book is &quot;must reading&quot;.  Others outside of the primary audience who will find this book valuable include project managers (the qualitative risk approach will be equally effective in project planning and control), and facilities managers.  This book earns a solid 5 stars and Mr. Peltier earns my gratitude for showing me a better way.	2001-04-22
2026107:US	53037408	R1KER5LPYRTL4V	0201616416	870177034	Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A great overview of a true software engineering approach	I believe that XP is one of the most important breakthroughs in quality-focused development in the past decade.  It is a language-independent approach that embodies what is best in software engineering, project planning and control, and attention to quality.<br />This book is a fast overview of XP and should be required reading for any development manager who wants to get control of cost, schedule and quality. Despite its small page count, it covers all of the key points and will demonstrate to those who are put off by the name, \\"Extreme Programming\\", that this is a viable approach.<br />As I read through this book I saw a lot of parallels in the author's description of XP to some of the best practices and key process areas of the capability maturity model. I was especially surprised at how close XP is to Watts Humphrey's personal and team software processes. These similarities show that XP is a serious software engineering approach and a good fit into companies that have invested in improving their capabilities through attainment of the higher CMM levels, software engineering process groups, etc.  Indeed, the metrics that are collected and used by XP practitioners will feed valuable data into an SQA group for transformation into meaningful data for process and quality improvement.<br />Don't let the title \\"Extreme Programming\\" or the short page count of this book deter you from taking it seriously.  Mr. Beck clearly describes XP and amply proves its value in this brief survey.  If you want to see just how serious XP as a software engineering and project management discipline, read this book, then get a copy of Watts Humphrey's A Discipline for Software Engineering.  I give this book 5 stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-04-21
2026374:US	53037408	R2UYVCOH0ZNZCU	0201546108	184800752	A Discipline for Software Engineering	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A great complementary reference for XP - also CMM L-4 &amp; 5	This book's title contains two key words that are woefully missing from most development projects: &quot;discipline&quot; and &quot;engineering&quot;.  With this book Mr. Humphrey introduced the personal software process (PSP), which subsequently spawned the team software process (TSP).  Although the material is over 6 years old and does not seem to have gained wide acceptance in commercial development and project environments, it provides a roadmap to effectively integrating the increasingly popular extreme programming (XP)approach that was developed by Kent Beck.<br />How does PSP align to XP? Both approaches focus heavily on project planning and estimating, and controlling quality, cost and schedule.  Both approaches also use metrics as a baseline and past performance to predict future productivity and quality during the planning and estimation phases of new projects.  Moreover, both approaches impose a rigorous discipline at a low level in the development process - PSP at the individual level and XP at the 2-person paired team level.  An excellent book on XP that supports this premise is Planning Extreme Programming by Kent Beck and Martin Fowler.<br />The methods that Mr. Humphrey proposes in this book are the building blocks of an effective XP organization because much of the metrics he proposes for capture, analysis and tracking are the very ones that are key to XP.  These methods add the &quot;discipline&quot; into the development process, and &quot;engineering&quot; into the quality approach to any development effort, regardless of whether the methods are aligned to XP or any other methodology.  Further, the disciplined engineering approach will provide organizations striving for capability maturity model (CMM) level 4 (managed) or 5 (optimizing) with some valuable tools and techniques with which to achieve these higher levels of maturity. Of course, this is also useful to organizations that are implementing SPICE (Software Process Improvement Capability dEtermination), organizing software process engineering groups, or implementing mature project management methods for development projects.<br />I agree with a previous reviewer that development is also a social and cognitive discipline, but it is not solely those.  The social and cognitive approach will only get you so far. The same is true of the disciplined engineering approach.  You need both, and this book is a valuable work for the latter.<br />In my opinion this book is probably more valuable today then when it was first published because the approach required too much rigor for most organizations to adopt. However, with the growing movement towards XP I believe that this book will add details and techniques that are only superficially addressed in the XP body of knowledge and literature. If you are a proponent of XP this book provides some proven, concrete techniques. If you are striving for higher levels of capability maturity this book (and the companion, Introducing the Team Software Process by Mr. Humphrey) will give you the tools to get to managed, and from there to optimizing.  I believe this book is a 5-star classic that was ahead of its time.dEtermination), organizing software process engineering groups, or implementing mature project management methods for development projects.<br />I agree with a previous reviewer that development is also a social and cognitive discipline, but it is not solely those.  The social and cognitive approach will only get you so far. The same is true of the disciplined engineering approach.  You need both, and this book is a valuable work for the latter.<br />In my opinion this book is probably more valuable today then when it was first published because the approach required too much rigor for most organizations to adopt. However, with the growing movement towards XP I believe that this book will add details and techniques that are only superficially addressed in the XP body of knowledge and literature. If you are a proponent of XP this book provides some proven, concrete techniques. If you are striving for higher levels of capability maturity this book (and the companion, Introducing the Team Software Process by Mr. Humphrey) will give you the tools to get to managed, and from there to optimizing.  I believe this book is a 5-star classic that was ahead of its time.	2001-04-21
2027525:US	53037408	R1BW66PBE1GFRN	0201325640	713493432	A Practical Guide to Testing Object-Oriented Software	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Thorough, wide and deep coverage of O-O testing	I purchased this book to use as a guide for developing a strategy to validate directory-enabled security infrastructures.  It met my requirements and more. I discovered that this is also a great introduction to object-orientation for test professionals new to the paradigm.  Also, because this book covers every facet of O-O testing it is also useful to testers who have worked in the O-O environment.<br />It starts out with a good description of the differences and unique challenges of testing O-O software. It then covers the basics.  Starting with test planning it provides a clear approach to performing this important task in the O-O environment. This material can also be used as best practices for testing in any environment. I especially liked the chapter on testing analysis and design models. In particular, this chapter validated my personal theories on the way to approach design validation of directory services, such as LDAP, that are becoming a prevalent component of enterprise security infrastructures. The next three chapters address testing classes, interactions and class hierarchies.  These chapters cover the foundation of O-O testing and provide those who are new to O-O testing with a clear view of what's important and how to approach developing a test strategy and cases, and performing the actual testing.<br />The book moves into advanced topics in the chapter on testing distributed objects.  This is a complex subject and developing a test strategy in this area is a daunting task.  The authors cover this material in depth, and provide a clear and complete description of all issues and factors. I was impressed with thoroughness and attention paid to the most minute detail.  The authors include life cycle testing, which makes this book also important to software quality assurance (SQA) professionals.  Note, SQA and testers are two different groups with two different sets of objectives.  Where the tester is concerned with trying to break software, SQA collects metrics and devises process improvement with respect to defect prevention. The authors' approach contains something for each of these groups.  The next level of testing granularity that is addressed is testing whole systems. This chapter covers the entire range, including stress testing, the wider considerations of system life cycle testing, embedded software, multi-tiered systems and more.  Because my interest was testing security infrastructures I was pleased to see that the authors included security testing in this chapter.  This is an added bonus, and shows the thoroughness with which the book approaches testing in the whole.<br />Other topics that make this a valuable book for test professionals are included in the chapter on components, frameworks and product lines.  The authors show the differences between testing objects and components, and cover topics such as enterprise java beans, inspecting and testing frameworks, and interface testing.<br />Overall this is a comprehensive book that covers every conceivable task and topic related to O-O testing. It is well written and contains many pleasant surprises, such as security testing, and well developed test strategies for any environment with which an O-O tester will be confronted.  It provided me with the exact answers to some thorny questions about validating and testing directory-enabled security, and taught me a lot more about O-O testing along the way.metrics and devises process improvement with respect to defect prevention. The authors' approach contains something for each of these groups.  The next level of testing granularity that is addressed is testing whole systems. This chapter covers the entire range, including stress testing, the wider considerations of system life cycle testing, embedded software, multi-tiered systems and more.  Because my interest was testing security infrastructures I was pleased to see that the authors included security testing in this chapter.  This is an added bonus, and shows the thoroughness with which the book approaches testing in the whole.<br />Other topics that make this a valuable book for test professionals are included in the chapter on components, frameworks and product lines.  The authors show the differences between testing objects and components, and cover topics such as enterprise java beans, inspecting and testing frameworks, and interface testing.  <br />Overall this is a comprehensive book that covers every conceivable task and topic related to O-O testing. It is well written and contains many pleasant surprises, such as security testing, and well developed test strategies for any environment with which an O-O tester will be confronted.  It provided me with the exact answers to some thorny questions about validating and testing directory-enabled security, and taught me a lot more about O-O testing along the way.	2001-04-20
2028875:US	53037408	R3NRXG82UBV3XF	092930618X	631055016	Software Error Analysis	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Focused, clear and full of great information	This gem is a straightforward approach to error analysis that is presented in a life cycle structure.  It starts with an introduction that discusses the cost benefits of early error detection  and provides guidelines for selecting error analysis techniques.<br />The error life cycle is covered in chapters 3 through 5 and is as follows: techniques for detecting errors, removal of errors and collection and analysis of error data.<br />Techniques for detecting errors cover detection strategies in each phase of a standard development life cycle. The phases that the authors focus on are requirements, design, implementation, test, installation and operations/maintenance.  While this aligns to the older waterfall approach, the detection strategies can be easily refactored to fit spiral or iterative development.  As such, this section is not as out of date as it seems - I saw how to easily fit this to the Rational Unified Process.  What I found valuable in this chapter was the section on benefits of classes of error detection techniques.  This is a solid set of guidelines with which to develop a tailored detection strategy that can fit nicely into a number of areas.  Good candidates include: software engineering process group, SQA function, or program management office function that oversees quality from a high level.  Moreover, this chapter is augmented by Appendix A, which provides 32 techniques ranging from algorithm analysis to walkthroughs. Appendix B extends this information by cross-referencing these techniques to standards documents that include ISO 9000, IEEE, ANSI and a number of others.  These two appendices alone are worth the price of the book.<br />Error removal covers identification, investigation and resolution approaches. This chapter gives a methodical approach to this function and, like the preceding chapter, can be tailored and incorporated into an organization-wide strategy.<br />My favorite chapter covers data collection and analysis.  What made this chapter valuable is the step-by-step approach the authors give to applying SPC (statistical process controls) to error analysis.  This chapter is important to organizations that are striving for CMM Levels 4 or 5, and shows how easy it is to implement SPC and the value such an approach brings.<br />Both authors work for NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology).  I have read much of Ms. Wallace's other work and have come to regard her as a world-class expert in error analysis and software assurance techniques.  This book reflects both author's wide experience and expertise and is characterized by clear writing and ample use of graphics to illustrate the SPC portions of the book.  I personally think it should be in the library of every serious SQA practitioner, and should be used in the development of software engineering process improvement and quality strategies.  It earns a solid five stars.is chapter valuable is the step-by-step approach the authors give to applying SPC (statistical process controls) to error analysis.  This chapter is important to organizations that are striving for CMM Levels 4 or 5, and shows how easy it is to implement SPC and the value such an approach brings.<br />Both authors work for NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology).  I have read much of Ms. Wallace's other work and have come to regard her as a world-class expert in error analysis and software assurance techniques.  This book reflects both author's wide experience and expertise and is characterized by clear writing and ample use of graphics to illustrate the SPC portions of the book.  I personally think it should be in the library of every serious SQA practitioner, and should be used in the development of software engineering process improvement and quality strategies.  It earns a solid five stars.	2001-04-19
2030306:US	53037408	R3MFXI34VDEYF3	0130104701	122622870	Handbook of Software Quality Assurance, The (3rd Edition)	Books	5	38	41	N	N	A true classic and the best SQA book for serious SQA pros	This book is one of the most comprehensive treatments of SQA on the market. It is a collection of essays that cover every imaginable aspect of SQA with an overall focus to prepare candidates for the American Society of Quality's software quality engineer certification (CSQE).  Each author is an acknowledged expert in the field, and each essay is well developed and gets to the essence of the topic.<br />Although the primary intent of this book is to prepare readers for the CSQE exam, this book contains the building blocks to develop a world-class software engineering process group and/or to move up the capability maturity model (CMM)ladder or achieve a higher level of capability within the context of SPICE (Software Process Improvement Capability dEtermination).  In particular CMM and SPICE are 'assessed' levels of capability maturity with no prescribed techniques.  This book provides a collection of techniques that will fit nicely into goals for increasing the maturity level of an organization regardless of the framework (CMM or SPICE) that is selected.  What I like about this book is that it also addresses in detail how SQA aligns to ISO 9000-3, and the coverage of ISO/IEC 12207 and IEEE-STD-1074 (both of which are important international standards that should be considered as a part of an organization's strategy with respect to CMM or SPICE).<br />Chapters that provide excellent material supporting CMM and SPICE initiatives are: 1 &amp; 2, SQA-Coming to Terms and How Does SQA Fit In? (a complete picture of the many components and considerations of an effective SQA function); 5, Software Quality Program Organization (great advice on organizing SQA within your company and aligning it to development and project management); 9, Inspections as an Up-Front Quality Technique (how to integrate inspections into a comprehensive, proactive quality posture); 10, Software Configuration Management (essential to any quality initiative regardless of whether the end goal is CMM, SPICE, ISO 9000 or compliance with international standards);  15, SQA Metrics (the foundation of SPICE and higher CMM levels); 19 &amp; 20, Statistical Methods and Software Reliability Management (another set of foundation areas that are essential to SPICE and higher CMM levels).<br />Other chapters provide material that is specific to preparing for the CSQE examination or implementing any quality program that is focused on software quality assurance.  I particularly liked the chapter on personnel requirements, which covered the people and process elements of SQA, and the cost of software quality. The latter gives you ample information for justifying SQA from a business perspective.  This material is further augmented by a chapter on effective methods of IS quality assurance, which bridges the applications delivery (development) and service delivery (support and operations) domains.<br />SQA is not easy to organize and implement.  Moreover, it is a highly technical discipline that is more engineering focused than most disciplines in development and operations.  As such this book is definitely not for the faint-of-heart.  It is intended for CSQE candidates and organizations that have attained some level of maturity and are striving to move higher up the capabilities ladder.  If you are looking for a more basic book on SQA I recommend Customer Oriented Software Quality Assurance by Frank P. Ginac. However, if you are an experienced SQA practitioner, heading a software engineering process group, devising a plan for improving capability maturity for CMM or SPICE, or are preparing for the CSQE examination the Handbook of Software Quality Assurance is the best book you can have.  It is a classic and earns a solid 5 stars.PICE, ISO 9000 or compliance with international standards);  15, SQA Metrics (the foundation of SPICE and higher CMM levels); 19 &amp; 20, Statistical Methods and Software Reliability Management (another set of foundation areas that are essential to SPICE and higher CMM levels).<br />Other chapters provide material that is specific to preparing for the CSQE examination or implementing any quality program that is focused on software quality assurance.  I particularly liked the chapter on personnel requirements, which covered the people and process elements of SQA, and the cost of software quality. The latter gives you ample information for justifying SQA from a business perspective.  This material is further augmented by a chapter on effective methods of IS quality assurance, which bridges the applications delivery (development) and service delivery (support and operations) domains.  <br />SQA is not easy to organize and implement.  Moreover, it is a highly technical discipline that is more engineering focused than most disciplines in development and operations.  As such this book is definitely not for the faint-of-heart.  It is intended for CSQE candidates and organizations that have attained some level of maturity and are striving to move higher up the capabilities ladder.  If you are looking for a more basic book on SQA I recommend Customer Oriented Software Quality Assurance by Frank P. Ginac. However, if you are an experienced SQA practitioner, heading a software engineering process group, devising a plan for improving capability maturity for CMM or SPICE, or are preparing for the CSQE examination the Handbook of Software Quality Assurance is the best book you can have.  It is a classic and earns a solid 5 stars.	2001-04-18
2036380:US	53037408	R1J2VJGXJDDMRP	0849398371	575713375	Enterprise Systems Integration (Best Practices In series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Valuable source of info on a wide range of topics	This book is a collection of essays that describe best practices in each of the major topics of enterprise systems integration.  The key strength is that each essay is well written and provides some deep insights into the topics covered.  A minor weakness is lack of a unifying structure if you are seeking a book that neatly ties everything together and adds a framework to the complex array of the parts and processes of enterprise systems integration.  However, that is not a major shortcoming if you use this book as an encyclopedia or source book for best practices. Also, finding a key technology or technical approach is made easy because topics are grouped.<br />I could write a mini-book about all of the things I like and the many times this book has helped me in my job.  I'll spare you that agony and just hit the high points from my perspective.<br />&quot;Aligning strategies, processes and information technology&quot; is a case study from which I gained a lot of good ideas and insights when I was engaged in a project to align IS services to business requirements.  While the case study's organization and the organization for which I was doing this were vastly different, I found some great ideas that I was able to apply.<br />The entire section on integrated architectures and the following section on enabling technologies were a major influence on my approach to defining a strategic architecture for a client.  Our team's first review deliverable required extensive modifications at the client's request, and these two sections gave us some valuable pointers that resulted in a cleaner approach that was standards-based as opposed to product- and technology-based.<br />I liked every article in the data warehouse section and particularly liked the interesting article titled &quot;Distributed Integration: An Alternative to Data Warehousing&quot;. Although I do not fully buy into the approach, it certainly was intriguing and triggered some ideas that I am mentally filing away for that inevitable time when they will be useful.<br />Project and Systems Management had excellent, thought-provoking articles and provided tips and practices that I have incorporated into my own bag of tricks and techniques.  One of the most valuable articles in this collection is &quot;Symptoms of the Terminally Ill Systems Integration Project&quot;.  Great reading and some clear examples of what to *not* do. If you are an anti-pattern fan and a project manager this one article is worth the price of the book.  I also found the information and guidance given in &quot;Contracting for Systems Integration&quot; especially well thought out.<br />  This book is a valuable resource to a system architect, consultant or integrator.  I have gained (and am still gaining) a lot of insights, information and best practices from this book.  It is one of the few books to which I refer all of the time.g away for that inevitable time when they will be useful. <br />Project and Systems Management had excellent, thought-provoking articles and provided tips and practices that I have incorporated into my own bag of tricks and techniques.  One of the most valuable articles in this collection is &quot;Symptoms of the Terminally Ill Systems Integration Project&quot;.  Great reading and some clear examples of what to *not* do. If you are an anti-pattern fan and a project manager this one article is worth the price of the book.  I also found the information and guidance given in &quot;Contracting for Systems Integration&quot; especially well thought out.<br />  This book is a valuable resource to a system architect, consultant or integrator.  I have gained (and am still gaining) a lot of insights, information and best practices from this book.  It is one of the few books to which I refer all of the time.	2001-04-12
2036398:US	53037408	R2BVMEDYERZQ52	0750644206	25898642	Effective Measurement and Management of IT Costs and Benefits, Second Edition (Computer Weekly Professional Series)	Books	5	62	62	N	N	The only approach I trust	For years I have been searching for the &quot;right&quot; method with which to measure IT costs and benefits. In my quest I have come close with a few well-written white papers that fell short because they didn't go deep enough.  This book ends my quest - finally, I have found the &quot;right&quot; method.<br />The authors start with a chapter on the elusive nature of IT benefits, and the difficulties of measuring and managing them.  This chapter lays the groundwork for the rest of the book.  One nugget of valuable information given here is the recommendation that IT be run based on P&amp;L (profit and loss).  Because IT is traditionally operated as a cost center instead of a profit center I first thought that this was overly radical.  However, as I dug deeper I understood the true intent:  to tie together investment, value and economics, and measure IT investments based on their derived value to the business.  This is where profit comes in. It initially looked like thinly disguised cost/benefit, but the expansion of this concept as the book unfolds makes it look like a true P&amp;L approach.<br />Chapter two focuses on reasons to evaluate IT investments, and gives a number of approaches to perform evaluations.  It covers the strengths and weaknesses of each approach and also discusses some of the pitfalls of benefit evaluation.  This material segues into chapter three, which covers the investment decision process. The authors did a good job of explaining this from an IT perspective, and ties it closely to meeting business requirements.<br />The next chapter discusses the issues associated with, and the techniques used, to perform the IT evaluation.  This is where the book gets interesting and a coherent method for measuring IT costs takes shape.  What I liked most about this chapter is the list of possible techniques you can employ and how the authors classified techniques based on relative strengths such as objective vs. subjective, etc. This allows you to select the best approach based on the degree of precision you are willing to accept and your goals.<br />Chapter five, identification of IT costs, is about what we all struggle with: identifying total costs of ownership, finding the &quot;buckets&quot; into with to place the costs, and the cost drivers themselves.  The costs are divided into direct and indirect cost portfolios, and  the cost breakdowns for each portfolio are comprehensive.  This material is valuable and will lend itself nicely to a number of approaches, among them activity-based cost management.  Chapter six, IT Cost Control, shows you how to manage the costs that you identify and is a good primer on IT budget management for those who find themselves in a new management position.<br />IT Business Case Accounting, the topic in chapter seven, presents a straightforward approach to building your business case for IT investments.  This is &quot;must&quot; reading for IT management and consultants. Chapter eight, Risk Analysis, is standard fare if you are familiar with these techniques.  It is covered completely and provides a solid foundation in the science of identifying, quantifying and managing risks.<br />My favorite chapter is nine, Evaluation of the IT Function.  As a consultant who performs such evaluations I thought I knew a thing or two.  This chapter sparked some ideas, and the accompanying checklists are worth their weight in gold. Not only is there a comprehensive set of checklists, you are also shown how to assess the results.  Contrast this with books (and consultants) who provide findings, but fail to show the root causes of the findings or make valid recommendations based upon them.<br />Chapters ten, eleven and twelve tie up some loose ends by covering Ranking and Scoring of the evaluations, Determining Value for Money, and Designing IT Surveys for Benefit Measurement. Taken together these three chapters can stand alone as a small book on using quantitative methods to measure IT value.  Chapter thirteen addressed project management issues, which were fairly generic, and the authors end the book with a chapter on final thoughts.  They include nine appendices, of which the following provide additional value:  C - Financial Measurements used in Cost Benefit Analysis (great primer for non-financial types), D- Factor Analysis (advanced techniques for correlating questionnaire responses), E- Sample Sizing Scenarios (how to select sample size using statistical techniques), F through H Questionnaires and associated issues (the questionnaires are more excellent material for consultants and auditors).<br />This book provides a roadmap to measuring and managing IT benefits.  The approach is straightforward and the goals are achievable (although not without a lot of hard work).  It also provides many valuable checklists that will serve you well regardless of whether you are intent on implementing a measurement and management program, or are just seeking some techniques to more effectively manage an IT function.  I strongly recommend this book to all consultants who perform IT organizational analysis, and members of IT governance committees or program management offices.pter thirteen addressed project management issues, which were fairly generic, and the authors end the book with a chapter on final thoughts.  They include nine appendices, of which the following provide additional value:  C - Financial Measurements used in Cost Benefit Analysis (great primer for non-financial types), D- Factor Analysis (advanced techniques for correlating questionnaire responses), E- Sample Sizing Scenarios (how to select sample size using statistical techniques), F through H Questionnaires and associated issues (the questionnaires are more excellent material for consultants and auditors).<br />This book provides a roadmap to measuring and managing IT benefits.  The approach is straightforward and the goals are achievable (although not without a lot of hard work).  It also provides many valuable checklists that will serve you well regardless of whether you are intent on implementing a measurement and management program, or are just seeking some techniques to more effectively manage an IT function.  I strongly recommend this book to all consultants who perform IT organizational analysis, and members of IT governance committees or program management offices.	2001-04-12
2038577:US	53037408	R2CF0LOSE4BKWI	0201433176	413497474	The Process of Network Security: Designing and Managing a Safe Network	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An approach that goes to the essence of proactive security	Mr. Wadlow has written a truly useful book that sorts out the many facets of security and recasts them into a complete and straightforward approach to implementing an effective security organization.  The only thing I found wrong with this book is the title because the approach is not confined to network security.  This book serves as a model for all IT security, and can be applied to data centers, servers and the other components of a large, complex IT suite.<br />He starts out with the foundation, writing a security policy, and offers excellent advice on how to go about this important task. Policy writing is an art and a science, and it is apparent that Mr. Wadlow knows his stuff here.  An ambiguously worded or unenforceable policy is next to worthless and he shows how to avoid both of those pitfalls.<br />I liked the chapter titled &quot;Who is Attacking You?&quot; because it forces you to carefully consider threats and exposures, which is the first step towards crafting a plan for dealing with them.  I also liked the chapter on the security design process because it is methodical and repeatable.  One of the difficulties in developing an encompassing security approach is driving the stake into the ground, and the process given shows just where to drive it and how to proceed from there. This is a good prelude to the chapter on building a security team, which proposes a sensible structure and completely addresses requirements.<br />The chapters on the technical aspects, such as fortifying network components, physical security, and network monitoring and auditing are true best practices and can be modified to fit other areas of IT (as mentioned at the beginning of this review).<br />As a consultant I particularly liked the chapter that addresses quantifying the value of security.  However, this is not only for consultants - security is expensive and requires both dedication and resources, both of which are costly.  This material goes a long way towards building a compelling business case for an effective security posture and for proving its ongoing value to management who might think of it as a necessary evil that sucks up more budget share than it is worth.  When faced with the wild world of attackers and the internal bean counters it is sometimes difficult to determine who the real enemy is :-)<br />The book ends with excellent chapters on preparing for an attack, handling it and analyzing the aftermath for lessons learned and future preventive measures to incorporate. Overall, this section is the life cycle of an incident and should be carefully read.<br />I obviously like this book a lot.  I think it provides a structure and method for designing and implementing a sound and effective security strategy.  Moreover, the approach can easily be expanded to encompass off of IT, making this book all the more valuable.  I strongly recommend and would give it more than 5 stars if I could.compelling business case for an effective security posture and for proving its ongoing value to management who might think of it as a necessary evil that sucks up more budget share than it is worth.  When faced with the wild world of attackers and the internal bean counters it is sometimes difficult to determine who the real enemy is :-)<br />The book ends with excellent chapters on preparing for an attack, handling it and analyzing the aftermath for lessons learned and future preventive measures to incorporate. Overall, this section is the life cycle of an incident and should be carefully read.<br />I obviously like this book a lot.  I think it provides a structure and method for designing and implementing a sound and effective security strategy.  Moreover, the approach can easily be expanded to encompass off of IT, making this book all the more valuable.  I strongly recommend and would give it more than 5 stars if I could.	2001-04-10
2038599:US	53037408	R1DFPA22W8HTX0	158053001X	262872088	Successful Proposal Strategies for Small Businesses: Winning Government, Private Sector, and International Contracts (Artech House Technology Management and Professional Development Library)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Thorough, full of sound advice and strategy	To set expectations this book is heavily slanted towards winning Government business.  It is also applicable to large businesses as well as small ones. That said, the information in this unique book can be effectively used by consultants and companies intent on competing for commercial contracts.  I am fortunate because I have experience in Government contracting (on both sides of the fence - writing RFPs and evaluating responses when I was a member of DoD, and responding to RFPs when I was in the DoD contracting industry), and in the commercial world where I have been working as a consultant since 1988.  From my vantage point I see the value of this book as advice and guidelines for developing effective proposal strategies regardless of whether you are competing for Government or commercial business.<br />I have used this book as a ready reference since the first edition was published in 1997.  This second edition reflects a major update to the original book in that the proposal management tools in the first edition were woefully out of date and the focus was not on some of the Government opportunities for small business, such as Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR)that require a tailored proposal strategy. The second edition also addresses new Government initiatives for e-business and a plethora of other topics that were not present in the first edition.<br />If you are competing for Government business this is the most complete, accurate book I know of that covers the RFP-Proposal-Negotiation-Award process.  Short of memorizing the FAR (Federal Acquisition Regulations), amassing years of proposal writing experience, and gaining the wisdom of knowing what works and what doesn't you will not find a more concise guide to the process.  Also, you will benefit greatly from the wealth of tips and pointers that the author provides from his own extensive experience.  If you are in the DoD contracting business, regardless of business size, I cannot overemphasize this book's value when it comes to cutting through the maze and providing a clear roadmap.  If you are a proposal or capture manager I strongly recommend that you get a copy for every member of your team.<br />For the book's readers who are in the commercial sector the approach outlined in this book will add process and structure to your proposal writing efforts.  The rigorous requirements imposed by the Government are too often lacking in the commercial process, which results in sloppy proposals that meander around issues and miss important client requirements.  Also, because the proposal development process can be as large a task in the commercial sector, managing it can be a nightmare without a well thought out strategy for ensuring that all of the &quot;t&quot;s are crossed and &quot;i&quot;s dotted.  The approach in this book practically hands you a ready-made process that you can apply to proposal development.  This process will not only improve your ability to respond quickly and accurately to RFPs, but do so in an efficient manner.  The result will be a significant competitive advantage.<br />For both sets of readers I think some of the advice, such as using the proposal as a marketing tool as well as a due-diligence instrument for responding to RFPs is excellent.  For example, the author emphasizes backing up responses with examples to demonstrate claims. This is a powerful technique that I have used repeatedly to good advantage. It goes a long way towards assuaging client concerns about capabilities versus empty claims, and will turn a proposal that is merely responsive into one that is compelling.<br />Other things that make this book extremely valuable include the CD ROM of checklists and templates, and the numerous examples from the author's past proposals.<br />In my opinion this is the best book available for proposal development, and the only one that fully addresses every aspect of managing the proposal process for Government business.  It should be on the shelf of anyone who responds to RFPs, and in the library of every company that does Government or commercial contracting.n the shelf of anyone who responds to RFPs, and in the library of every company that does Government or commercial contracting.	2001-04-10
2038778:US	53037408	RYQQ36Q2WWPPG	0471376418	876613450	Enterprise Application Integration: A Wiley Tech Brief	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great summary of a complex subject - brief and complete	This book is a advertised as a technical brief, so by its nature it does not purport to get too deep into enterprise application integration.  What it does do, however, is give a non-technical manager or someone who is migrating their technical skills from, say, mainframes the ability to quickly discover the moving parts and associated issues of EAI.  In that respect this book lives up to its title and does an excellent job.<br />The authors start with EAI business drivers, which sets the context for the business process owners who need to understand how the &quot;EAI project&quot; that IT is cooking up will affect their lives.  For the more technical manager or individual who is making a horizontal career move, the types of integration will be of great interest.  Then authors do a good job of clearly explaining approaches.<br />Basic building blocks is about as far as a business process owner will want to wade into this book.  It gives a clear picture of the scope and complexity of an EAI solution without overwhelming details.<br />The chapter on messaging architectures can be easily followed by IT managers who are in their positions because of a basic understanding of technology and emphasis on business.  Although the material is fairly high-level it is also suitable for developers, DBAs and other technical types who may not be exposed to messaging architectures, or whose life is more oriented towards transaction processing. Another chapter that may have a wide technical audience is the one that addresses object architectures. For all of the hype and buzzwords, object-orientation is still grossly misunderstood, even by people who are suppost to understand it.  I like the way the material was presented.<br />I got the most from the chapter that covered the author's Secure Application Integration Methodology (SAIM).  I saw a lot of parallels between their method (which is proprietary to their company, Concept5), and the work developed by the company for which I work (naturally, proprietary as well).  Too bad this book is a technical brief because I would have loved more details on the SAIM methodology :-)<br />If you are looking for a &quot;nuts and bolts&quot; book this one is not it.  If you are trying to get quickly up to speed in EAI, this is a great starting point. I read the book because I was looking for material that I could give to clients, and this one fit my needs perfectly.  I recommend it to its intended audience and give it five stars for doing what it claims: giving a clear, understandable summary of a complex subject.work (naturally, proprietary as well).  Too bad this book is a technical brief because I would have loved more details on the SAIM methodology :-)<br />If you are looking for a &quot;nuts and bolts&quot; book this one is not it.  If you are trying to get quickly up to speed in EAI, this is a great starting point. I read the book because I was looking for material that I could give to clients, and this one fit my needs perfectly.  I recommend it to its intended audience and give it five stars for doing what it claims: giving a clear, understandable summary of a complex subject.	2001-04-10
2038792:US	53037408	R30XLUFGQ2PFZR	0814403875	14002135	The Smart Way to Buy Information Technology: How to Maximize Value and Avoid Costly Pitfalls	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Levels the sales cycle playing field	If you are acquiring products or services from a reseller/integrator then this book give you the knowledge you need to ensure that you're getting what you're paying for. Earlier in my career I was an MIS manager who dealt with resellers and made the switch to working for a number of reseller/integrators as a pre-sales consultant and network engineer. I came away with two fundamental truths: there is a definite ritual that underlies the IT sales cycle, and the difference between a computer sales rep and a used car salesman is the used car salesman knows he's lying. Apparently the authors of this book also see these truths because they arm you, the buyer, with a strategy and an array of tactics with which to cut through the FUD (fear, uncertainty and doubt) and the other ploys that the sales side of this ritual will use.<br /><br />To be fair to the sales side of the acquisition cycle, they have face a tough set of challenges, among them the fact that many buyers do not understand the dangerous margins that are a reality of the seller's world. Also, IT technology has become a commodity and the resellers who truly do add value are often competing on price alone.<br /><br />That said, everything in this book rings true for both sides. Resellers are going to employ every weapon at their disposal, and this book lists them all: relationship development, knowing your hot buttons and pushing them in many subtle ways, and always nudging you to the close. Some of these tactics are well-intentioned and may actually take into account your real requirements. However, the book also points out other external forces at play, such as quotas imposed by your sales rep's own company as well as pressures from their vendors. Combined, these too often result in your being skillfully talked into technology that is proposed for reasons other than its fit to your needs or overall value as an investment. In this respect the advice that the authors provide might seem on the surface to be adversarial or worse; however, it is designed to ensure that your acquisition strategy is aligned to your real requirements and not the result of skillful manipulation.<br /><br />Among the most insightful parts of this book, in my opinion, are chapter 4, which covers negotiations and how to control the negotiations; chapters 8 and 9, which provide sound advice for monitoring and auditing vendor performance; and chapter 10 on contracting. Each of these areas are key in the sales and delivery cycle, and are especially important for services. When I was in that business I thought that it was absolutely amazing how many customers overlooked the vast difference between what our sales reps promised and what was actually delivered from a services perspective. The real value lies in service, and that seems to be the one place where the buyer consistently loses. If you follow the advice provided in these chapters you will learn how to get with you pay for and how to hold your reseller accountable for delivering what was promised.<br /><br />I think this is one of the best written books on how to buy IT technology and services. Learn from it and you will have the assurance that you will get best value and solutions that meet your real requirements. The book is weak on the financial side of solution selection and measuring benefits, but it is incredibly strong on how to manage vendors and beat them at their own game. I strongly recommend it if you are involved in managing vendors or acquiring product and services from resellers.however, it is designed to ensure that your acquisition strategy is aligned to your real requirements and not the result of skillful manipulation.    Among the most insightful parts of this book, in my opinion, are chapter 4, which covers negotiations and how to control the negotiations; chapters 8 and 9, which provide sound advice for monitoring and auditing vendor performance; and chapter 10 on contracting. Each of these areas are key in the sales and delivery cycle, and are especially important for services. When I was in that business I thought that it was absolutely amazing how many customers overlooked the vast difference between what our sales reps promised and what was actually delivered from a services perspective. The real value lies in service, and that seems to be the one place where the buyer consistently loses. If you follow the advice provided in these chapters you will learn how to get with you pay for and how to hold your reseller accountable for delivering what was promised.    I think this is one of the best written books on how to buy IT technology and services. Learn from it and you will have the assurance that you will get best value and solutions that meet your real requirements. The book is weak on the financial side of solution selection and measuring benefits, but it is incredibly strong on how to manage vendors and beat them at their own game. I strongly recommend it if you are involved in managing vendors or acquiring product and services from resellers.	2001-04-10
2038852:US	53037408	R3A5R5Y1FBRWJV	0814470912	324366061	The E-Policy Handbook: Designing and Implementing Effective E-Mail, Internet, and Software Policies	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Cuts down on time to produce an effective e-policy	This book covers all of the key points and provides some excellent topics to include in a corporate e-policy.  The goal of this book is to aid you in developing a policy that will provide clear, enforceable guidelines to your employees in the acceptable use of the Internet and electronic mail, and to protect your company's image.<br />It starts out with a well developed approach to assessing your current situation with respect to Internet and software usage, and provides a handy list of questions to aid in this task. The key objective is to discover your company's exposures and what abuse of systems or services [if any] need to be immediately addressed by the policy.<br />In order to fully understand the results of your assessment and how they relate to risks and exposures, the author provides fundamentals of &quot;cyberlaw&quot; and general security concerns that will indicate, roughly, the degree of risk your company faces.  These are important considerations for tailoring an e-policy to which your employees can relate. I liked the chapter on cyber insurance products and how they can be used to transfer some of the inherent risks to an underwriter.  I didn't even know such policies existed.  The author also addresses software piracy, which can be a big issue because the world wide web has many sources for pirated software (commonly called &quot;Warez&quot;). It goes without saying that pirated software can expose your company to legal headaches and expenses, not to mention technical headaches and lost productivity that will occur if that stolen software also comes with a virus attached.<br />The book then shows you how to develop an e-policy that is based on your assessment results, and the issues previously discussed in the book. What is valuable here is that the author provides a list of all elements that need to be included in the policy. Moreover the next chapters provide additional material that will prove to be invaluable in preparing your company for the policy. For example, there is a &quot;Netiquette&quot; primer for employees, on-line writing guidelines, and advice on training your employees. The training aspect of implementing an e-policy is especially important because many employees have home computers and are experienced Internet users.  They might consider themselves to be experts and may resent being &quot;constrained&quot; by a policy that dictates how they use the Internet at work.  Educating them and getting their &quot;buy-in&quot; is essential, and the author provides some effective ways to get that &quot;buy-in&quot;.<br />I found the sample policies in the appendices to be particularly valuable to use as guidelines for drafting a clearly-worded policy that covers all key elements.  The applicable laws cited in the appendices were also valuable because they indicate the many sources of legal risks (and protection) that touch an e-policy.<br />This book provides an excellent starting point for developing an effective e-policy that can be closely tailored to your company and &quot;sold&quot; to your employees.  Its clear writing, completeness and sensible advice earn it 5 stars.  I will offer one caveat:  any e-policy developed based on this book or any other should not be issued until it has been carefully reviewed by legal counsel.  I am not an attorney (I am a computer consultant by profession), however, I do know that such a policy touches so many aspects of privacy and employment law that you may put your company at greater risk by implementing a policy that has not been reviewed by qualified legal counsel than by having no policy at all.olicy. For example, there is a &quot;Netiquette&quot; primer for employees, on-line writing guidelines, and advice on training your employees. The training aspect of implementing an e-policy is especially important because many employees have home computers and are experienced Internet users.  They might consider themselves to be experts and may resent being &quot;constrained&quot; by a policy that dictates how they use the Internet at work.  Educating them and getting their &quot;buy-in&quot; is essential, and the author provides some effective ways to get that &quot;buy-in&quot;.<br />I found the sample policies in the appendices to be particularly valuable to use as guidelines for drafting a clearly-worded policy that covers all key elements.  The applicable laws cited in the appendices were also valuable because they indicate the many sources of legal risks (and protection) that touch an e-policy.  <br />This book provides an excellent starting point for developing an effective e-policy that can be closely tailored to your company and &quot;sold&quot; to your employees.  Its clear writing, completeness and sensible advice earn it 5 stars.  I will offer one caveat:  any e-policy developed based on this book or any other should not be issued until it has been carefully reviewed by legal counsel.  I am not an attorney (I am a computer consultant by profession), however, I do know that such a policy touches so many aspects of privacy and employment law that you may put your company at greater risk by implementing a policy that has not been reviewed by qualified legal counsel than by having no policy at all.	2001-04-10
2039339:US	53037408	R1J6XY0TQBMHWH	0136365647	812082560	Software Release Methodology	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	One-of-a-kind book on an important process	This book goes far beyond traditional books on SCM by providing a methodical, complete view of the capture, versioning, build and release process.<br />While the author focuses on what must be done to safely release a software product into production, he also provides the necessary steps to assure product quality and integrity. Key milestones covered include defect tracking, change control and release tracking.  These three areas, to the best of my knowledge, are not covered in any real depth in most SCM books, and are welcome additions to the applications delivery body of knowledge.<br />I like the way the material is presented. As a consultant who has developed processes and procedures in support of release management I can attest to the fact that describing the capture, versioning, build and release process is not an easy task.  The author has done a remarkable job of separating out the pieces, focusing on each piece as it relates to the whole, and crafting a big picture that you can drill down into for details. Another thing I like about the book is the standalone nature of each chapter - you can safely skip to whichever chapter interests you the most without getting lost.<br />Who should read this book? The following come immediately to mind:  Build and release managers, software configuration managers, developers who need to understand the processes for which they are responsible for complying, production services personnel who receive applications into production after the release process is complete (actually, this group participates in the release process), SQA professionals and project managers who also need to be aware of the release management process.<br />In particular, the SQA group will find the chapter on defect tracking extremely useful for developing a strategy for metrics capture, analysis and action. Project managers will find the entire capture, versioning, build and release cycle description in the book useful for adding appropriate tasks and deliverables to project plans. If you follow the author's cycle you will make sure that every milestone, task and deliverable in a development project is accounted for. It is also invaluable to production services staff who will be receiving applications into production<br />This book easily earns five stars for the following reasons:  (1) it is the only book of its kind, (2) it is complete and covers every imaginable detail, and (3) it addresses topics that are of interest to a wide audience.and deliverables to project plans. If you follow the author's cycle you will make sure that every milestone, task and deliverable in a development project is accounted for. It is also invaluable to production services staff who will be receiving applications into production<br />This book easily earns five stars for the following reasons:  (1) it is the only book of its kind, (2) it is complete and covers every imaginable detail, and (3) it addresses topics that are of interest to a wide audience.	2001-04-10
2041513:US	53037408	R1VMEGKXRL56RQ	0814405932	114088071	Corporate Portals: Revolutionizing Information Access to Increase Productivity and Drive the Bottom Line	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Despite some shortcomings it's &quot;must reading&quot;	This book is a one-of-a-kind in that it provides equal coverage ofo the business and technical aspects of corporate portals.  Further, it gives a very succinct description of what a portal is, and how portals can provide measurable benefits to a business.<br />With respect to what value a portal brings the author sums it up with an illustration early in the book that shows the many different types of portals, and the sub-categories of corporate portals.  As a consultant who needs to be able to explain what a portal is in the clearest possible terms I found this one graphic worth the price of the book.<br />Let me cut to the chase: this book is valuable and has many strengths.  It also has some shortcomings.  I'll address its strengths first.<br />The first four chapters were gold mines.  They start with a business problem statement, define portal types and their fit to specific business goals, and step you through building a business case for a portal.  This is excellent information that is not only well written, but shows Ms. Collins as a seasoned expert who has done this many times before.  Some of the final chapters were equally as valuable - in particular chapter 13 that addresses financial metrics analysis, and chapter 15, which is an example business case that nicely augments chapter 4.<br />Of great value are the checklists that are sprinkled throughout the book. They reflect the author's experience and will make your life simpler if you use them during the business analysis and implementation phases of a portal project.<br />I liked the author's treatment of knowledge management, which is one of the main business reasons to implement a portal. Ms. Collins demonstrates a deep understanding of this subject and it is one of the key strengths of the book.  If you want to go deeper into knowledge management I recommend building upon the excellent foundation that Ms. Collins provides with Knowledge Management Toolkit by Amrit Tiwana.<br />There are a few weaknesses as well.<br />Ms. Collin's approach to making direct links to reports, analysis and queries is &quot;brute force&quot; in my opinion and misses one of the key features all portal software provides: the ability to interface with data using SQL queries to stuff an XML defined document type (in correct terms, &quot;Document Type Definition&quot;) template and displaying the result using XSL (extended stylesheet language) for presentation.  All or the major portals come with mechanisms called &quot;portlets&quot;, &quot;gadgets&quot; and other catchy names depending on the vendor, that facilitate this method.  XML and XSL are each mentioned once in the book and only in passing. I strongly use readers who are developing a portal solution that will draw from data sources to read Building Corporate Portals With XML by Finkelstein, Aiken and Zachman.<br />Another potential shortcoming, depending on your industry and objectives, is the treatment of identity management.  While identity management is an extremely important consideration, the entity-relationship approach proposed in the book will not be effective in certain circumstances. Unfortunately, the author did not offer alternative methods.  For example, if you are in health care your identification requirements are going to be governed by Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which means that you need to consider role-based access controls (RBAC) as a key component of your identification and access strategy.  Determining to whom to grant rights to what is a lot more complex than relatively simple E-R modeling.  The design of an effective and provable RBAC strategy is through set theory.  Energy is another industry that requires identification and access methods that are a lot more stringent that those recommended in this book because of the requirement to keep all regulated and unregulated business functions and data separate.  Another key element of RBAC-schemes is directory-enabled identification and authentication that are independent of applications and services. The modeling for directory-based controls is object based and also cannot be done using the E-R approach.  If you fall into any of these categories I strongly recommend augmenting this book with All About Network Directories by Kevin, Tina and Christina Kampman.<br />The above shortcomings do not detract from the value of this book as long as you take them into account.  I think the author broke new ground when she wrote this book by tackling some important issues. First, she defines the real business value of a portal, then steps you through building a strategy for enabling business processes using portal technology.  She also leads you through building a sound business case for implementing this technology using objective factors and measures. I have recommended this book to numerous colleagues and will continue to do so.  It earns a solid five stars.fication and authentication that are independent of applications and services. The modeling for directory-based controls is object based and also cannot be done using the E-R approach.  If you fall into any of these categories I strongly recommend augmenting this book with All About Network Directories by Kevin, Tina and Christina Kampman.<br />The above shortcomings do not detract from the value of this book as long as you take them into account.  I think the author broke new ground when she wrote this book by tackling some important issues. First, she defines the real business value of a portal, then steps you through building a strategy for enabling business processes using portal technology.  She also leads you through building a sound business case for implementing this technology using objective factors and measures. I have recommended this book to numerous colleagues and will continue to do so.  It earns a solid five stars.	2001-04-08
2043847:US	53037408	R2RN2LGT9ZTNS0	0814403379	125482469	A Survival Guide for Project Managers	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Takes PMs to the next step in their professional development	When I am asked to recommend a good book on project management I always recommend Visualizing Project Management by Forsberg, Cotterman and Mooz.  That book teaches project management the right way, in my opinion, by laying a solid foundation.  However, at some point you will master the material through application and experience, and you'll want to go to the next level.  That is where this excellent book will take you.<br />As you mature as a project manager you eventually discover that the technical aspects are a great foundation, but the 'soft skills' are essential to success. The book starts with these.  The author provides some excellent material on how to make effective oral and written presentations, negotiation skills and leadership.<br />Don't get the impression that this book does not cover technical material.  It does, and it goes pretty deep into some advanced techniques.  For example, the author provides a very comprehensive discussion of work breakdown structures (WBS) and how to develop them. In my opinion the biggest failure of projects is the fact that a WBS is never developed before the estimating and scheduling is performed.  I really liked the network analysis chapter.  It presented in clear prose how to risk-adjust a critical path, which is something I learned over a decade ago, but am met with blank stares when I mention this to most project manager.  Indeed, most project managers don't know what a critical path is (they use the term often enough, they just don't know what it  means), much less how to perform a critical path analysis. This book will provide this information and a few easy-to-learn techniques as well.  I thought that the chapter on earned value was adequate. I was glad to see it included in the book and give the author credit for his comprehensive treatment, but I almost fell asleep here.  I recommend that serious project managers augment the earned value knowledge in this book with Earned Value Project Management, 2nd Edition by Quentin Fleming and Joel Koppleman.  That book was written by authors who developed the 32 earned value criteria for the Project Management Body of Knowledge (2000 version).<br />The part of the book that covers managing a project is filled with great advice.  I thought the chapter on project selection was particularly valuable because it is objective and based on financial formulae that should be applied to these kinds of decisions. The sample reports are also good templates that should be in every project manager's tool kit.<br />Overall, this book will give a seasoned project manager much sound advice and provide him or her with an array of advanced techniques. It is truly a project manager's survival guide earning it a solid five stars and a place on the list of the handful of books that I always recommend.by Quentin Fleming and Joel Koppleman.  That book was written by authors who developed the 32 earned value criteria for the Project Management Body of Knowledge (2000 version).<br />The part of the book that covers managing a project is filled with great advice.  I thought the chapter on project selection was particularly valuable because it is objective and based on financial formulae that should be applied to these kinds of decisions. The sample reports are also good templates that should be in every project manager's tool kit.<br />Overall, this book will give a seasoned project manager much sound advice and provide him or her with an array of advanced techniques. It is truly a project manager's survival guide earning it a solid five stars and a place on the list of the handful of books that I always recommend.	2001-04-05
2051575:US	53037408	R2UNDHIBCU6PKG	0201699443	833292923	Function Point Analysis: Measurement Practices for Successful Software Projects	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Excellent Description and Great for CFP Candidates	This is an authoritative book by two authors who have a published a large number of articles on the subject.<br />Function point analysis is, in both my experience and opinion, one of the most accurate estimating tools a software engineer has at his or her disposal.  I have previously used the constructive cost model (COCOMO) through version 2, Raleigh curves, and hybrids such as Software Estimation Analysis Tool, which computes both COCOMO and function point statistics. Granted, not all of these estimating models are equal - the Raleigh curve approach has a focus on quality and manpower loading that the others lack.  But each (and many I have not cited) are estimating tools for software development.<br />My experience shows function point analysis to be the most accurate - if done correctly.  Therein lies the crux of the matter.  Function point analysis, in order to yield accurate estimates of effort, needs to be performed by certified counters and the resulting data needs to be properly interpreted.  That's where this book comes in.<br />It starts with an overview that serves as an understandable introduction for someone who is new to software estimation, yet is interesting enough to hold the attention of more experienced professionals.  The advice on preparing for IFPUG (International Function Point User Group) certification is a highlight and underscores the fact that FP counting should only be performed by certified counters.<br />The chapters on software measurement and executive introduction to function points are really extensions of the introduction.  I found both the software measurement model in this chapter, and how to establish a world class measurement program interesting and informative.<br />This segues into three chapters that cover measuring and using function points, and industry benchmarks. Some highlights are the way the authors tie function points to key performance indicators such as productivity, quality, financial and maintenance.  I also liked the way that the authors stratify the users of function point data into project managers, IT managers and cross-organizational stakeholders.  I was particularly interested in the last group because I am often involved in both service and application delivery projects.  The use of function points as a basis for service level metrics and outsourcing is an intriguing idea that I will explore further.<br />When you arrive at chapter 6 the foundation built in the first five chapters prepare you for a detailed, methodical approach to performing function point analysis.  This is straightforward and appears to be completely consistent with IFPUG.  All you need to know about function point analysis is, in my opinion, provided in the remainder of the book.  The material is augmented by case studies, and also addresses contemporary issues such as applying function point analysis to object-oriented, web, client/server and data warehouse applications. While each of these topics are not given in-depth treatment the fact that they are addressed at all is impressive. The authors end the book with advice on preparing for the certified function point specialist exam, and gives sample exam questions. They also provide sample worksheets in the appendices.<br />This book merits a solid five stars because it is well written, up-to-date and follows IFPUG recommendations.  If you are pursuing CFP certification this book will simplify your life.  If you want to learn about an effective software estimating technique this book is a great starting point.  To be completely fair, if you are new to software estimation you should also read Estimating Software Costs (Caspers Jones), which gives a complete and unbiased survey of all of the major (and some obscure) software estimating approaches.ked the way that the authors stratify the users of function point data into project managers, IT managers and cross-organizational stakeholders.  I was particularly interested in the last group because I am often involved in both service and application delivery projects.  The use of function points as a basis for service level metrics and outsourcing is an intriguing idea that I will explore further. <br />When you arrive at chapter 6 the foundation built in the first five chapters prepare you for a detailed, methodical approach to performing function point analysis.  This is straightforward and appears to be completely consistent with IFPUG.  All you need to know about function point analysis is, in my opinion, provided in the remainder of the book.  The material is augmented by case studies, and also addresses contemporary issues such as applying function point analysis to object-oriented, web, client/server and data warehouse applications. While each of these topics are not given in-depth treatment the fact that they are addressed at all is impressive. The authors end the book with advice on preparing for the certified function point specialist exam, and gives sample exam questions. They also provide sample worksheets in the appendices.<br />This book merits a solid five stars because it is well written, up-to-date and follows IFPUG recommendations.  If you are pursuing CFP certification this book will simplify your life.  If you want to learn about an effective software estimating technique this book is a great starting point.  To be completely fair, if you are new to software estimation you should also read Estimating Software Costs (Caspers Jones), which gives a complete and unbiased survey of all of the major (and some obscure) software estimating approaches.	2001-03-29
2051634:US	53037408	R1YPJMS3A8GGWP	1558606785	201090568	Web Project Management: Delivering Successful Commercial Web Sites	Books	5	121	121	N	N	The only effective approach I have come across	This book is not about project management.  In fact, someone versed in the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge will cringe at some of the statements made in the book (more about that below).  It is, however, about delivering successful commercial web sites and it provides the best approach I have ever seen.<br />Here are some of the things that make this not only unique, but the most authoritative book I have read on the subject:<br />(1) It is not an IT centric book that focuses on technical issues. The author brings to the forefront the real critical success factors in the form of four equal sets of requirements:  commercial, creative, content and technical.  In 2000 I was a member of a multi-million dollar dot com project team for a large international company, and from that experience I totally agree with the author's view.<br />(2)The author manages to balance the time-to-market pressures that permeate commercial web projects with the by-the-numbers method imposed by IT.  As such, this book addresses the development life cycle from inception to production by aligning implementation to development life cycle stages. It manages to accomplish this and still cut the project's cycle time by removing any fluff.  What is fluff?  The tons of non-essential paperwork produced by some of the larger consulting companies.  What is not missing are the essentials, as evidenced by the repeated emphasis on testing, the attention given to configuration and change management, and the realities of post-implementation support.  These are extremely important and are too often overlooked.<br />(3) The project controls that are proposed in this book are exceptional.  While the author muddles through stuff like the proper definition of critical path, he shows how to effectively control a project by managing to deliverables.  Contrast this with the common mistake of managing to a schedule and you will see the real effectiveness of his methods.  So, while he misses the mark on some project management fundamentals, he sure makes up for it in pragmatism.  He also makes up for his &quot;transgressions&quot; by laying out a project roadmap that, if followed, will guarantee success. If we project management &quot;purists&quot; lighten up a bit while reading this stuff we might learn a trick or two.<br />The big surprise is the author is not an IT professional - his background is TV producer! Or, perhaps it's not a surprise at all considering the fact that there is no room for failure or missed production schedules in the TV industry, while the IT profession is notorious for massive schedule and cost overruns.  What impressed me greatly is the wide range of technical issues that are addressed:  browser compatibility, content formats, scripting languages, etc.  For someone without an IT background the author demonstrates a solid grasp of real-life issues and gotchas.<br />Those of us in IT need to carefully read the parts that address creative and content management.  We are used to working with technical peers from vendors - working with copywriters and artists requires a wholly different way of interacting and communicating.  Moreover, content needs to be treated in an entirely different matter than data, and it also comes with an array of legal issues that we are not trained to think about.<br />What I discovered , despite my previous involvement with a commercial web project, is there are so many factors I had never considered prior to reading this book that most projects are flying blind.  As such, this book should be read by every team member, creative, content (artists and copywriters), technical, legal and commercial (marketing)*before* undertaking such a project.  This will ensure that the entire team sees the big picture and understands the complex interrelationships, and all issues and factors are addressed.  Mr. Friedlein deserves the highest accolades for making what I believe to be the most significant contribution to this field. My only regret is that I am limited to 5 stars.ntribution to this field. My only regret is that I am limited to 5 stars.	2001-03-29
2055850:US	53037408	R1QXJ5O93CIYLY	0932633137	932956298	Exploring Requirements: Quality Before Design	Books	5	47	47	N	N	A classic that will be around a decade from now	In the decade since I last read this book I've gained a wealth of experience in requirements elicitation and management.  So why bother re-reading the book and taking the time to write a review?  Because I strongly believe that this is one of the classics and should be *required* reading by anyone in the IT profession (it also crosses over into just about any profession).<br />What makes this book a classic?  After all, we practitioners have software tools such as DOORS and Requisite Pro, advanced techniques such as quality function deployment, specialized modeling languages such as UML, and a keener understanding of the importance in business rules.<br />All of these innovations and advances are technical in nature. The authors address something much deeper and more fundamental that will apply a decade from now:  human nature and critical thinking. They lead you to an understanding of these keys to exploring requirements, and they do so in with subtle humor, common sense and clear writing.  One example of how they delve into the deeper subjects of human nature and critical thinking is a true story about an advertisement for a &quot;cockroach killer&quot; that is guaranteed to be 100% effective. After your initial chuckles die down you begin to see things in a different way.  The authors lead you from this humorous story into one discussion or example after another and how they apply to requirements.  By the time you finish this book you will begin looking at the requirements process in a different way, and perhaps, the world around you as well. You will also approach the requirements elicitation and management process differently - all of a sudden those wonderful requirements management software tools and techniques will become the infrastructure of the process instead of the necessities for performing that they too often become.<br />This is not a technical book. If you are looking for advanced techniques look elsewhere. This book is about shaping how you see things, think and apply principles to &quot;techniques&quot;.  I personally believe it will remain a classic for many years to come, and strongly encourage IT professionals, regardless of their technical specialty, to read it.ngs, think and apply principles to &quot;techniques&quot;.  I personally believe it will remain a classic for many years to come, and strongly encourage IT professionals, regardless of their technical specialty, to read it.	2001-03-26
2058520:US	53037408	R3KA48L4XPNJJK	0735709106	383715726	Understanding Directory Services	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Best intro book on dir services - Needs a major update	This book is for technical managers who are evaluating directory services, and enterprise architects who are designing the infrastructure component of an encompassing enterprise solution.  Other audiences include:  portal designers and developers who intend to employ directory-enabled identification and access, and IT security professionals who are designing enterprise-wide role-based access controls and application-independent security architectures.<br />In a nutshell (with apologies to O'Reilly &amp; Associates) this book gives a balanced view of the major directory services solutions on the market.  It starts with a high-level overview of directory services, how they can fit into an enterprise architecture, and the mechanics of directory services in general.<br />The first directory service discussed is the grandfather of them all: X.500.  If you are evaluating directory services as an enterprise infrastructure component,  carefully read this part because it will give a solid basis for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of each approach that follows.  This section of the book is suitable for &quot;technically-challenged&quot; managers, as are the introductions to each of the directory services discussed in the book.<br />X.500 is followed by a detailed description and technical discussion of each of the commercially available directory services.  The descriptions and technical discussions follow a fixed format and structure, making comparison easy.<br />The directory services that this book coversare:  LDAP (lightweight directory access protocol), DNS (domain naming system), Novell's NDS and Microsoft's Active Directory. It is interesting to note the order in which directory services are discussed.  The authors start the book with open standards-based services (X.500, LDAP and DNS), followed by NDS, which is proprietary, but conforms to LDAP version 3.  They save Active Directory, which is completely proprietary, for last.  Also note that this book is written by what looks like a husband/wife team, one of whom holds Microsoft certifications and the other with Novell certifications.  Both demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of directory services discussed in this book, and they have managed to give a completely unbiased view of the advantages and disadvantages of each service discussed.<br />The reason I gave it four stars is because it badly needs to be updated to reflect what is currently happening today. I took into account the fact that this book was published in December 1999.  I also took into account the fairly long lead time between the time a book is written until it is published, and the fact that the information in this book probably reflects the market and state of technology as it was in early 1999.  However, the publisher should realize that this book needs to go into a second edition if it is to remain authoritative and valuable.<br />Here are some examples of gaps:<br />(1) Novell's NDS now goes by the name &quot;eDirectory&quot; and has been strengthened by their DirXML product.  eDirectory is LDAP version 3 compliant, and DirXML is also on its way to becoming an open standard via the DSML consortium (see below).  DirXML integrates with eDirectory to monitor and report change events through an XML interface.  This is an important management feature for enterprises.<br />(2) Another gap is Microsoft is not standing still either and is giving some signs of embracing open standards. Their SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)approach might open Active Directory, making it a safe choice that might actually go across platforms.  I am not saying that it will happen - just saying that it is possible.<br />(3) Finally, I feel that this book should be updated to include DSML (Directory Services Extended Mark-up Language.  This is an open, industry standard specification that is sponsored by some large players. DSML will provide a standard for querying the data in directories and allow cross-directory exchange of information about their data. The exchange mechanism in this standard is XML, making the extended directory services available to any Web application that supports the XML standard. This is obviously of interest to the target audience and needs to be addressed in a second edition.<br />Despite the gaps I found this book to be a valuable resource, and the best book available for learning about directory services technology. I applaud the authors for their unbiased treatment of the subject and hope that they will update this book with a second edition.exchange of information about their data. The exchange mechanism in this standard is XML, making the extended directory services available to any Web application that supports the XML standard. This is obviously of interest to the target audience and needs to be addressed in a second edition.<br />Despite the gaps I found this book to be a valuable resource, and the best book available for learning about directory services technology. I applaud the authors for their unbiased treatment of the subject and hope that they will update this book with a second edition.	2001-03-23
2058962:US	53037408	R1U3LD57IMD3H9	0130809020	108144717	Data Warehousing: Architecture and Implementation	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Good coverages of basics - for managers and non DBAs	Data Warehousing covers a lot of territory, but does not go into depth.  If you know this in advance it sets your expectations that this book is more of an educational tool for managers than a &quot;how-to&quot; for data architects and DBAs. I recommend The Data Warehouse Lifecycle Toolkit by Ralph Kimball for those who are seeking an in-depth technical treatment of the subject.<br />This book will give you a solid foundation of the basics, expose the issues and provide a high-level process for planning and implementing a data warehouse.  It is divided into sections, the first three covering people, process and technology.<br />Section One starts with an overview enterprise IT architectures, how data warehousing fits into the scheme of things, and associated business and technical perspectives. I like the way the authors emphasize business perspectives, which is a consistent thread throughout the book. They use a framework called &quot;InfoMotion&quot;, which covers all of the requirements, but (to me) is too wrapped-up in &quot;consultant-speak&quot;.  For example, they litter this section with nonsense such as &quot;InfoMotion = Information/Data * motion.  While it makes perfect sense from a conceptual viewpoint, there is no way to compute it, so why express it as a formula?  Parenthetically, data is easy to quantify; measuring information is difficult, but can be done.  The motion part of the equation is plain silliness because there is no basis given for measurement.  But I am nitpicking here.<br />You are next introduced to data warehouse concepts. This gives a foundation that is complete and covers all key elements, such as reports, definitions of data warehouse and data mart and operational data stores.  I thought this was an excellent introduction.  Also included is a brief piece on cost/benefit and return on investment.  It was short and hit all of the key points, but would have fit better in the prior discussion of the business perspective.<br />The next section addresses the people part of a data warehousing project, begining with the project sponsor.  Answers to some incisive questions are given in this part, such as &quot;how will the data warehouse affect decision-making processes?&quot;, &quot;how will it improve financial, marketing and operations processes?&quot; and similar business-focused questions.  These draw your attention to the real reasons for data warehousing.  This section moves naturally into project management considerations, and exposes some common problems like defining project scope, underestimating time and project overhead or factoring the operational support issues after the data warehouse is rolled out and in production.  One of the best parts of this section is how the authors counter common problems and risks with advice on how to eliminate or mitigate them. I liked the approach to measuring results, which gives some sound key performance indications that you can use to baseline some total cost of ownership drivers after the data warehouse is in production.  This section continues with roles and responsibilities of the project team.  The authors have crafted a sound team structure that consists of business and technical representatives who are overseen by a steering committee. This is an excellent approach. I thought the inclusion of users from various business domains was one of the key strengths, because these people know the data's value to the business a lot better than the technical side of the team. On the other hand, I thought it was naive of the authors to state that this group would be required 80% of the time during the project.  While I fully agree with this estimate, it is nearly impossible in practice. I wish the authors would have shared how they sold the business side on making an 80% commitment of their best and brightest.<br />As this section moves into the actual project there are some things I loved about their approach:  breaking the project into four parallel tracks and the proposed rollout strategy.  These give you a good understanding of the scope and magnitude of a typical data warehouse project.<br />Section 4 covers technology, and gets a little too technical for a business user in some places, but is just right for an IT manager who is not a DBA or data architect.  I liked the discussion of metadata, why normalization is not appropriate for data warehousing, and the treatment of fact and dimension tables.<br />The final section discusses maintenance requirements once the data warehouse is in production. This prepares you for the realities of managing these systems.  I wish the authors would have addressed some of the workload and scheduling issues that are a part of the territory - refreshing the warehouse is going to require a fine balancing act that is going to affect maintenance windows, other production jobs and a plethora of other production headaches if not planned for in advance.<br />Overall this is a good book for the audience I cited above.  I strongly recommend anyone considering a data warehouse to also read Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality by Larry P. English.ks and the proposed rollout strategy.  These give you a good understanding of the scope and magnitude of a typical data warehouse project.<br />Section 4 covers technology, and gets a little too technical for a business user in some places, but is just right for an IT manager who is not a DBA or data architect.  I liked the discussion of metadata, why normalization is not appropriate for data warehousing, and the treatment of fact and dimension tables.  <br />The final section discusses maintenance requirements once the data warehouse is in production. This prepares you for the realities of managing these systems.  I wish the authors would have addressed some of the workload and scheduling issues that are a part of the territory - refreshing the warehouse is going to require a fine balancing act that is going to affect maintenance windows, other production jobs and a plethora of other production headaches if not planned for in advance.  <br />Overall this is a good book for the audience I cited above.  I strongly recommend anyone considering a data warehouse to also read Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality by Larry P. English.	2001-03-22
2064470:US	53037408	RYKTQB9M2DGLN	1880410273	441748242	Earned Value Project Management, Second Edition	Books	5	110	115	N	N	Unique book about a powerful project management tool	This is the only book that I know of that is totally devoted to earned value project management.  Before proceeding with a review I believe that a few facts about earned value project management are in order.<br />First, earned value project management has graduated from a tool that was little known outside of the Department of Defense contracting community to a mainstream project control tool. This milestone occurred when it became a part of the Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK).<br />Second, &quot;earned value&quot; is a misunderstood term.  I have had clients who thought it was a consultant's trick to raise prices or hide the true costs of projects in a bunch of mumbo jumbo. Just the opposite is true - earned value is a proven, powerful tool with which to control project costs and schedules. If you use it any poor estimating from the project planning phase will become quickly apparent, allowing you to recalibrate the project before it gets out of control and cannot be salvaged. As an aside, I use a heuristic that boils down to:  if you are 15% off cost or schedule by the time you are 15% into a project you will not recover using your original baseline.  Earned value project management techniques will give you ample warning before you drift into an unrecoverable situation like that.<br />The authors have distilled thousands of pages of DoD instructions and guides and lessons learned from the inception of the Cost/Schedule Control Systems Criteria (C/SCSC)into a 141 page book that thoroughly covers the subject.  The C/SCSC is where earned value was first defined in the late 1960s.<br />I like the way the book is structured.  It starts with a brief overview of earned value, from where it came and how it finally managed to escape from the bureaucratic world of DoD to become an integral part of the PMBOK.  This overview segues into a chapter titled Earned Value Body of Knowledge, which is where the book gets interesting.  This is followed by seven chapters that step you through how to correctly plan, schedule and control projects based on earned value.<br />The key strength is the authors demonstrate how projects are traditionally planned and controlled, and the pitfalls of this approach.  For example, using cost/funding where you get a budget, develop a spend plan and then attempt to determine a project's health by comparing the burn rate to the spending plan is like flying blind.  Why? The cost components are not integrated with schedule components.  This results in controls that will never reveal any relationship between budget and schedule, and is a big reason why projects too often have cost or schedule overruns.<br />By demonstrating problems with traditional approaches to project management the authors lay the groundwork for how to employ earned value to avoid these problems.  They start by systematically stepping through a project, starting with scoping, followed by planning and scheduling.  This material is excellent and on the mark. It introduces you to work breakdown structures, organizational breakdown structures, and how the two intersect to form control accounts (the authors use the term &quot;cost account&quot;, but my background has instilled &quot;control account&quot; into my vocabulary).<br />Earned value really begins taking shape in chapter 7, Establish Project Baseline, where the book quickly picks up pace.  While earned value is simple in concept, there are many subtle elements that usually become apparent only with experience.  The authors highlight these subtle elements, such as examples of how to interpret interrelationships between planned vs. actuals of work, cost and schedule.  They provide standard tools such as schedule and cost performance indices (SPI and CPI), and add new wrinkles, such as &quot;to complete performance index&quot; (TCPI), which is a powerful management tool that I only discovered a few years ago.<br />The best reason for reading this book is it will give you the tools and techniques with which to properly plan projects and prevent cost and schedule overruns. If you are pursuing the Project Management Professional certification this book is the best single source of information that I know of on earned value.  Everything you need to know about earned value is packed into 141 pages of a book written by two renowned experts on this subject.is book is it will give you the tools and techniques with which to properly plan projects and prevent cost and schedule overruns. If you are pursuing the Project Management Professional certification this book is the best single source of information that I know of on earned value.  Everything you need to know about earned value is packed into 141 pages of a book written by two renowned experts on this subject.	2001-03-18
2066625:US	53037408	RJ7WN8M8XNTXS	0201616475	323582919	Cryptography Decrypted	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent for HIPAA and e-commerce security - top writing	The primary audience for this book is anyone who has to quickly get up-to-speed in security infrastructure and cryptology.  If you are working in health care and are overwhelmed with the technical requirements imposed by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), then you are going to love this book. If you are involved in e-commerce you will definitely find this book essential reading and the key to understanding the underpinnings of web and e-commerce security.<br />There is another audience for this book:  technical writers.  The authors set the highest standards in document design, clear writing and integration of prose and illustration.  They have managed to explain a complex, difficult subject easy to understand.<br />Part I of the book lays the foundation by explaining the basics: defining terms, the evolution of ciphers and how they worked, and the fundamentals of the data encryption standard (DES) and secret keys.  I found this part of the book to be fascinating because the authors used easy-to-follow examples that were augmented by visual depictions of how everything works.  For example, a quick explanation of Polybius square numbers and how to transpose them to diffuse a cipher was not only something completely new to me, but was something I was able to thoroughly understand after reading less than three pages of this book!  I am sure that a professional cryptographer would find this material basic. I found it empowering because I began to see a larger picture of this obscure science unfold while learning some interesting numerical manipulation techniques. For the first time I really understood this stuff to the degree that I could explain it to non-technical people. The authors also used historical anecdotes to make the subject interesting.  Some of the highlights of this part of the book include transposition ciphers, diffusion and confusion strategies, and the frank discussion of DES in its various forms (double, triple), and its strengths and vulnerabilities.<br />In parts II and III the book thoroughly covers public keys and digital certificates - two topics that you cannot avoid if you are among the primary audience of this book.  If you carefully read these sections you will come away with a good grasp of public keys and how they work, digital certificates and how they fit into the scheme of things and message digest mechanics.  In fact, you will be able to hold your own in conversations with security experts when discussing these topics. If you are struggling with HIPAA requirements and the thousands of pages of associated documentation you will be armed to fully understand the issues and factors.<br />Part IV addresses technologies that support secure electronic commerce:  secure e-mail, secure socket layer (SSL)/transport layer security (TLS) and IP security.  Like sections II and III, these highly technical, complex technologies are explained in an incredibly clear manner. As in the previous sections I learned a lot and came away with a strong understanding. What I really liked about this section is the chapter on cryptographic gotchas - it covered some common attacks and how to safeguard against them. I also enjoyed the treatment of smart cards and their particular vulnerabilities.<br />I love this book for a number of reasons.  First, the authors know their subject. More importantly they have produced a book that epitomizes how to communicate highly technical subjects to not-so-technical people.  Finally, this book is remarkably error-free considering the copious use of numeric examples.  The author's web site has a single entry for errata! If you need to quickly get up-to-speed on HIPAA or e-commerce security then this book is the best place to start. If you are a technical writer and want to see how it *should* be done get this book even if you do not care about cryptography or security.ts strengths and vulnerabilities. <br />In parts II and III the book thoroughly covers public keys and digital certificates - two topics that you cannot avoid if you are among the primary audience of this book.  If you carefully read these sections you will come away with a good grasp of public keys and how they work, digital certificates and how they fit into the scheme of things and message digest mechanics.  In fact, you will be able to hold your own in conversations with security experts when discussing these topics. If you are struggling with HIPAA requirements and the thousands of pages of associated documentation you will be armed to fully understand the issues and factors. <br />Part IV addresses technologies that support secure electronic commerce:  secure e-mail, secure socket layer (SSL)/transport layer security (TLS) and IP security.  Like sections II and III, these highly technical, complex technologies are explained in an incredibly clear manner. As in the previous sections I learned a lot and came away with a strong understanding. What I really liked about this section is the chapter on cryptographic gotchas - it covered some common attacks and how to safeguard against them. I also enjoyed the treatment of smart cards and their particular vulnerabilities. <br />I love this book for a number of reasons.  First, the authors know their subject. More importantly they have produced a book that epitomizes how to communicate highly technical subjects to not-so-technical people.  Finally, this book is remarkably error-free considering the copious use of numeric examples.  The author's web site has a single entry for errata! If you need to quickly get up-to-speed on HIPAA or e-commerce security then this book is the best place to start. If you are a technical writer and want to see how it *should* be done get this book even if you do not care about cryptography or security.	2001-03-16
2073373:US	53037408	R1CQG3F5MCFM5X	0471239801	564764662	The Fast Forward MBA in Technology Management	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Business focus, brief and filled with points to ponder	This wonderful little book covers a wide range of topics in 240 pages.  It is a series of short essays, interviews with industry movers and shakers, and articles by different authors.<br />The central theme is the business value of technology and how business can harness technology to achieve strategic and tactical goals.  Indeed, the first two chapters, The Value of Technology to Business and Managing Your Business with Technology, set the tone.  These are followed by chapters that address slices of technology management.<br />People and Technology, Chapter 3, is the least focused because of the array of topics that are addressed.  It covers everything from business roles and responsibilities to the need for corporate policies for e-mail.  Included are four case studies of &quot;Stellar Performers&quot; that give best practices. The authors manage to cram this all into 28 pages.  They also manage to convey a lot of good information - no mean feat considering the range of topics covered and the page count allotted to each.<br />Chapter 4, Role of Information Technology, is too short and the material would have been more effective had it been combined with the previous chapter.<br />Things pick up starting with Chapter 5, which provides excellent advice and food for thought on vendor management. This chapter covers everything from vendor evaluation and selection to relationship management.  Each topic is quickly covered, but there are a lot of valuable points made by the contributing authors.<br />My favorite chapter, 6, covers best practices in technology management.  I discovered something new or rediscovered something I knew but forgot in each article, essay and case study.<br />The final chapter, Emerging Technologies: A Manager's Three Year Plan, is a quick breeze through technology and issues of which managers on the technology and business sides of a company need to be aware (and address).  Some of the better articles address information security, data warehousing and java.  While these are standard fare, this chapter also addresses subtle issues such as  recruiting java developers.<br />The appendix, titled Measuring Workplace Performance with IT, is a quick read that should have been expanded into a chapter.  This was my second favorite part of the book and I hated to see it end.<br />I obviously like the book and recommend it to business process owners and IT technical experts who aspire to management positions.  I gave the book four stars instead of five because some of the material is dated.  Specifically, many of the interviews with industry leaders reflect their view and opinions cica 1998 - things change too quickly and it shows in these areas.  However, this book is filled with timeless, sound advice, which makes reading it a productive way to spend an evening or lazy weekend afternoon.rehousing and java.  While these are standard fare, this chapter also addresses subtle issues such as  recruiting java developers.<br />The appendix, titled Measuring Workplace Performance with IT, is a quick read that should have been expanded into a chapter.  This was my second favorite part of the book and I hated to see it end.  <br />I obviously like the book and recommend it to business process owners and IT technical experts who aspire to management positions.  I gave the book four stars instead of five because some of the material is dated.  Specifically, many of the interviews with industry leaders reflect their view and opinions cica 1998 - things change too quickly and it shows in these areas.  However, this book is filled with timeless, sound advice, which makes reading it a productive way to spend an evening or lazy weekend afternoon.	2001-03-11
2090152:US	53037408	R1OP7JP0G822D0	0786307404	885402136	Activity-Based Cost Management Making It Work: A Manager's Guide to Implementing and Sustaining an Effective ABC System	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Complete, industry neutral and unbiased - Recommended!	ABC is typically associated with manufacturing. My review is from the perspective of an IT consultant who employs ABC both as an internal tool for planning and managing consulting projects, and as a technique that I propose to clients.<br />This book is, in my opinion, one of the best I have read on the subject.  It is not biased to any specific industry, and is not a gushing testimonial to ABC.  In fact, the book starts with some pitfalls of ABC and how to avoid them, then goes into a frank discussion of why such systems fail.  The book also contains a chapter on common misconceptions of ABC and succinctly dispells them. I appreciate not only the author's balanced approach, but the great advice he gives to make an ABC implementation successful.<br />If you are new to ABC the framework that is provided for mapping cost flows is going to be invaluable and key to understanding activity-based cost management.  I especially liked the chapter on the unification of time, cost and quality - these are the real reasons for implementing ABC and the author does a great job of explaining the interrelationships.<br />The best part of this book is the chapters that address implementation.  The approach taken by the author is straightforward, but admittedly not simple.  The roadmap the author provides is an excellent starting point for an implementation plan, as is the advice on ongoing operations in an ABC management environment.<br />In my industry, IT consulting, this book provides an excellent approach to determining total cots of ownership (TCO) for systems and applications.  This is not well understood by my colleagues or clients, and is further clouded by conflicting material from some industry analysts that will go unnamed.  I believe that ABC is the only viable approach to getting this aspect of information technology under control.  ABC is also an excellent tool for planning outsourcing engagements because you can see where the cost drivers are and systematically eliminate them. If you are doing this from the client side you will greatly reduce cost risk; if from the outsourcing provider side you will improve profitability.  ABC is also useful to IT consultants and consulting companies to design services or to eliminate service offerings that are not profitable.  Using techniques to examine contribution margin is the norm - using ABC is far more powerful.<br />Bottom line:  this book clearly explains activity-based cost management, provides an unbiased discussion on the strengths and weaknesses of its use, and shows how to effectively implement it in an organization.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is exploring ABC or is involved in an ABC implementation.ate them. If you are doing this from the client side you will greatly reduce cost risk; if from the outsourcing provider side you will improve profitability.  ABC is also useful to IT consultants and consulting companies to design services or to eliminate service offerings that are not profitable.  Using techniques to examine contribution margin is the norm - using ABC is far more powerful.<br />Bottom line:  this book clearly explains activity-based cost management, provides an unbiased discussion on the strengths and weaknesses of its use, and shows how to effectively implement it in an organization.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone who is exploring ABC or is involved in an ABC implementation.	2001-02-25
2090386:US	53037408	R1AX6VPV18SOKL	0471253839	118972647	Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An important and unique work	This is an important and unique work that addresses a big problem:  data quality.  Why is this a problem?  Data warehouses are proliferating at a dizzying rate.  Since data warehouses are fed by production databases, many of which are legacy systems, the poor quality of existing data quickly becomes [painfully] apparent.  I spent the last half of 2000 bringing data warehouses into production and can attest to this sorry fact.  However, the author drives home this point in chapter 1, titled &quot;High Costs of Low-Quality Data&quot; by giving nearly three pages of eye-opening examples from real life.  This alone should inspire anyone responsible for data integrity or quality, or who uses data to carefully read this book.<br />The big question is &quot;what is quality&quot;?  Specifically, &quot;what is information quality&quot;? Answers to these basic questions are given early in the book, and sets the tone for what follows. The foundation of data quality is carefully built by how the author applies quality principles to information, which segues into a chapter on improving information quality. It quickly becomes obvious that Mr. English is a Deming fan - although I am more in the Juran camp, I like the way that the author places data and information quality into a recognizable framework.<br />Things get interesting in the chapters on assessing data and information quality. The two chapters devoted to this subject are strengthened by the chapter on measuring the costs of non quality.  This is a great foundation for a business case for data and information quality improvement, which can be expensive.<br />The rest of the book is a step-by-step approach to getting data quality under control using data reengineering and cleansing; proactive measures for data defect prevention, and how to establish an information quality environment.<br />Although I found every chapter to be both informative and thought provoking, I particularly liked the concept of information stewardship (this goes far in aligning IT and business, and places roles and responsibilities where they belong), and the chapter on implementing a quality improvement environment.  This is especially valuable because it clearly outlines the critical success factors and steps needed to get there.<br />Who should read this book?  Obviously DBAs, data architects and anyone else responsible for designing and implementing data warehouses.  It should also be read by key business process owners because they, after all, own the data (or should) and depend on it as the basis for information.  In fact, Mr. English's approach and writing make this book highly accessible to non-technical readers, which is probably the book's most valuable aspect.  I personally believe that this book is the best on the subject and strongly recommend it.ship (this goes far in aligning IT and business, and places roles and responsibilities where they belong), and the chapter on implementing a quality improvement environment.  This is especially valuable because it clearly outlines the critical success factors and steps needed to get there.<br />Who should read this book?  Obviously DBAs, data architects and anyone else responsible for designing and implementing data warehouses.  It should also be read by key business process owners because they, after all, own the data (or should) and depend on it as the basis for information.  In fact, Mr. English's approach and writing make this book highly accessible to non-technical readers, which is probably the book's most valuable aspect.  I personally believe that this book is the best on the subject and strongly recommend it.	2001-02-25
2090945:US	53037408	R2587UJVI6S9K6	0134402561	653048827	Building Enterprise Information Architectures: Reengineering Information Systems	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	Business-Focused and pragmatic - highly recommended	Ms. Cook takes a no-nonsense approach to building an enterprise architecture that puts business requirements first.<br />She starts this excellent book with a quick history, setting information architecture into a context.  This is followed by addressing the hard part of architecture: overcoming political resistance and tackling the thorny problems of aligning systems to what the business needs. She pulls no punches.<br />The next part of the book, chapter 3,  introduces the Zachman Framework, which I personally believe is one of the best foundations for an architecture that aligns IT to business.<br />Chapters 4 through 7 thoroughly delves into the layers of the Zachman Framework, and provides a coherent and comprehensive description of all of the &quot;moving parts&quot; from both an IT and a business perspective.<br />The theoretical underpinnings are translated into an actionable plan in chapter 8, titled, &quot;Making It Happen&quot;.  This chapter is pragmatic and gives a detailed roadmap to implementing an enterprise information architecture that will truly align information technology to business requirements.<br />Here are the key things I like about this book:  (1) It focuses on the business, subordinating technology to a supporting role.  This is refreshing.  (2) It provides one of the best descriptions of the Zachman Framework I have ever read.  (3) Political realities and organizational resistance are taken into account, and some excellent advice for overcoming these barriers is given. (4) Ms. Cook's approach to implementation is straightforward, and if followed, will greatly improve your chances for a successful implementation of an enterprise information architecture.  Make no mistake, such an implementation is a daunting task with opportunities to fail lurking in many places.  She has obviously encountered a good many implementation problems and gives some great advice on how to overcome them.<br />Ms. Cook has made a significant contribution to the body of knowledge of information architecture, and a strong case for the Zachman Framework in this book.  She also reinforces the need for a well thought out approach to implementation, and provides clear advice on how to successfully accomplish this.n to the body of knowledge of information architecture, and a strong case for the Zachman Framework in this book.  She also reinforces the need for a well thought out approach to implementation, and provides clear advice on how to successfully accomplish this.	2001-02-24
2091469:US	53037408	R24CKEUTOIO41H	0201704552	56055366	High Availability Networking with Cisco	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Essential for 24x7 infrastructure strategies	This book is an important addition to the body of knowledge of high availability in general and network availability in particular.  Do not let the title mislead you, this book is not about high availability for Cisco - it uses that product family for examples.  The information provided in this excellent book can be effectively applied to any vendor-specific or multi-vendor network architecture.<br />I am not going to rehash the table of contents or the lengthly editorial review - I am going to jump into why I like this book and what I think makes it so valuable.<br />First, no 24x7 system is a true highly available information resource unless you can access it.  Try as I may, I cannot think of a single company that does not employ a network as the base infrastructure for their information systems.  This book provides information necessary to create a foundation for high-availability and 24x7 operations.<br />Second, the book is a catalog of high availability designs that will fit within any network architecture, regardless of complexity, products used or geographical scope.  No matter what your network currently looks like you will find out what it takes to transform it into a reliable, resilient 24x7 network. The author has provided a design strategy for every conceivable situation and network configuration, and thoroughly discusses the underlying technical issues. This is where the &quot;Cisco&quot; part of the title comes in - he uses that particular product family as examples for achieving high availability designs for each scenario.<br />Third, the disaster recovery section in the book is well thought out and shows that the author has a lot of knowledge and experience in business continuity planning and disaster recovery.  This section alone is worth the price of the book.<br />This book is, in my opinion, essential reading for network architects, consultants and integrators, and operations managers who are seeking a total solution to high-availability solutions.<br />What I would love to see is a follow-on book that provides the design information reformatted as design patterns.  This would be an invaluable resource for experienced network architects and consultants.utions. <br />What I would love to see is a follow-on book that provides the design information reformatted as design patterns.  This would be an invaluable resource for experienced network architects and consultants.	2001-02-24
2092741:US	53037408	R24T5BNSTGZSUB	0471378089	534667765	Internet Performance Survival Guide: QoS Strategies for Multiservice Networks	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Simply great - lays the foundation for performance	This book explains in clear, unambiguous terms the meaning of quality of service and how to develop an infrastructure that will provide this elusive characteristic. More importantly, it provides a vendor-independent view of network performance and capacity management.<br />I particularly liked how the author distinguished between quality of service (QoS) and classes of service - these are important distinctions that will influence how you develop strategies for achieving either or both.<br />The heart of this book is the section titled Performance Toolkit.  The clear explanations of all of the &quot;moving parts&quot; at the physical and protocol layers are the best I have ever read.  These were augmented by illustrations that effectively conveyed conplex information and interrelationships without confusing the reader.  Most of the illustrations have two basic elements:  a physical or logical network diagram on top, with timing or interaction information below.  This, in my opinion, is one of the key strengths of the book because I was able to immediately understand what the author was trying to convey.<br />In addition to a structured approach to QoS the book is also sprinkled with interesting information that is set in text boxes.  Examples are web links to additional information, interesting discussions that support the main text (I loved the discussion on the &quot;Speed of Light Problem&quot;), and anecdotal information that liven up the book.<br />After reading this book I felt I had not only a firm grasp on what it takes to achieve QoS, but that I also understood with a great deal of clarity how networks work at the physical and protocol layers.  This alone speaks highly of the book because I have more than 12 years of network experience.<br />Regardless of whether you are working towards or are certified in a particular vendor technology (i.e., MCSE, CCIE, etc.), this book will expand your knowledge of networking in general and QoS in particular.<br />If you are a network architect this book with provide you with a strong foundation upon which you can build a solid QoS strategy. It also gives a sound approach to performance and capacity management, which would be nicely augmented by either (or both) of the following books: Capacity Planning for Web Performance, and Scaling for E-Business, both by Daniel A. Menasce and Virgilio A. F. Almeida.f you are a network architect this book with provide you with a strong foundation upon which you can build a solid QoS strategy. It also gives a sound approach to performance and capacity management, which would be nicely augmented by either (or both) of the following books: Capacity Planning for Web Performance, and Scaling for E-Business, both by Daniel A. Menasce and Virgilio A. F. Almeida.	2001-02-23
2093014:US	53037408	R17WU1DJWBNVED	0471190861	241631859	System Engineering Management	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Key to successful integration projects &amp; CMMI	This book is aimed at the system engineer who is involved in product design and engineering or involved in government contracting and must produce system engineering management plans (SEMPs). It is also applicable to organizations who have or are planning to use the capability maturity model (CMM) to improve their effectiveness. For the intended audience this book is both comprehensive and complete.  There are eight chapters, each followed by case studies, questions and problems, and six appendices.<br />It starts with a foundation of the basics, such as definitions, system engineering life cycle, analysis and concurrent engineering.  It then builds upon this foundation by addressing all of the elements of a well-managed system engineering program:  integrated product and process development, TQM, configuration management, support and logistics.  Each element is discussed in detail and placed into the context of a total system engineering environment.<br />The chapter on system design requirements is particularly complete and covers every facet of this discipline, including reliability, maintainability, safety, software, etc.  There is a lot of good material here, which is reinforced by the next chapter that covers design tools and methods.  The design process is concluded by a chapter on design review and evaluation, which is a foundation of good quality practices as well as a well-written SEMP.<br />The real heart of the book starts in chapter 6, which covers SE program planing.  It covers program requirements, the SEMP itself and provides a statement of work. It then provides a complete work breakdown structure for implementing system engineering functions and tasks. This chapter provides a risk management plan that is well thought out and serves as an excellent template. It also addresses the CMM for systems engineering. Much of this material has been superseded by the Software Engineering Institute's CMMI that now covers system engineering, software engineering and integrated product and process development.  This is not a problem because the book's coverage of the CMM-SE is consistent with the material in the CMMI.<br />The final two chapters, addressing system engineering organization and supplier/sub contractor management are to the point and contains a lot of valuable information.<br />Had the author provided this book in soft copy on an accompanying diskette or CD ROM it would be a best seller on the Beltway because of the time it would save in developing a company-wide system engineering procedure manual.<br />Consulting companies and IT departments would also greatly benefit from this book because of the structured approach it provides for planning and managing system integration.  Unlike their cousins in the government contracting and CMM domains, they generally approach system engineering and integration in a loose fashion that too often results in cost and schedule overruns, or project cancellation.  By following the approach outlined in this book consulting companies and IT departments would find that technical, cost and schedule risks would be identified early and controlled, and that the design, integration and implementation of complex systems would enjoy a higher rate of success. This is especially true when multiple vendors are involved in an integration project - the material in chapters 1 (integrated process teams) and 8 (subcontractor management) provides a foundation for managing cross-functional teams. Therefore, I strongly recommend this book for engagement and project managers, and program management offices run by consulting companies and/or IT departments.ng and integrated product and process development.  This is not a problem because the book's coverage of the CMM-SE is consistent with the material in the CMMI.<br />The final two chapters, addressing system engineering organization and supplier/sub contractor management are to the point and contains a lot of valuable information.<br />Had the author provided this book in soft copy on an accompanying diskette or CD ROM it would be a best seller on the Beltway because of the time it would save in developing a company-wide system engineering procedure manual.<br />Consulting companies and IT departments would also greatly benefit from this book because of the structured approach it provides for planning and managing system integration.  Unlike their cousins in the government contracting and CMM domains, they generally approach system engineering and integration in a loose fashion that too often results in cost and schedule overruns, or project cancellation.  By following the approach outlined in this book consulting companies and IT departments would find that technical, cost and schedule risks would be identified early and controlled, and that the design, integration and implementation of complex systems would enjoy a higher rate of success. This is especially true when multiple vendors are involved in an integration project - the material in chapters 1 (integrated process teams) and 8 (subcontractor management) provides a foundation for managing cross-functional teams. Therefore, I strongly recommend this book for engagement and project managers, and program management offices run by consulting companies and/or IT departments.	2001-02-22
2098638:US	53037408	R2YT5Y1E4WNB1I	0527763403	692171648	SPC Simplified: Practical Steps to Quality	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Makes SPC easy and accessible to anyone	SPC is one of the most powerful tools available to any organization or workgroup that wants to implement continuous improvement.  Unfortunately, it is not widely used outside of manufacturing or companies that are committed to quality.  One of the reasons is that is perceived to be difficult to learn.  This wonderful book changes that by introducing statistical process controls in a clear, gentle manner.<br />The book is divided into modules, each of which builds upon the preceding one, and can be used as a training text or as a self-study guide.  The first module covers the basics: causes of variation, tools (historgrams, control charts, variable and attribute charts).<br />Modules 3 and 4 go deeper into the tools, explaining why you would use them, how to use them and how to interpret them.  This is the heart of the book.<br />Machine and process capability, the subject of module 5, can be applied beyond the shop floor.  For example, I work as an information technology consultant and was able to apply the knowledge from this module to project estimation and controls, service level measurement and quality assurance processes.  This information is also applicable to other areas and will be useful to anyone who works at a company registered as ISO-9000.<br /> Module 5 covers all of the common quality problem-solving tools ranging from brainstorming to scatter diagrams.  IT consultants and practitioners will find the sections on cause and effect diagrams and Pareto analysis useful for process improvement for defect identification and removal, and other related objectives.<br />Elements of a TQM system covered in module 8 may have been better placed in module 1, but it is thorough and a good starting point for anyone who is new to quality.<br />This book finishes with a module that provides the answers and solutions to practice problems from the preceding modules, which underscores its value as a class test or self-study guide.<br />I recommend this book to associates who either have never heard of SPC (and there are a lot of them) or think it is beyond their ability to grasp.  It is impossible to have a viable, effective program of continuous improvement without SPC.  The authors have done a remarkable job of writing a book that lives up to its title by simplifying SPC.  As such they have made an important contribution to quality by making this effective tool available to anyone who will take the time to read the book and apply what they learn.tes who either have never heard of SPC (and there are a lot of them) or think it is beyond their ability to grasp.  It is impossible to have a viable, effective program of continuous improvement without SPC.  The authors have done a remarkable job of writing a book that lives up to its title by simplifying SPC.  As such they have made an important contribution to quality by making this effective tool available to anyone who will take the time to read the book and apply what they learn.	2001-02-18
2099211:US	53037408	R26PHXXSEJE429	0471134171	966473574	Object-Oriented Design Measurement	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	An important work - also of interest to security pros	I first encountered Mr. Whitmire's work nearly ten years ago when I read on of his articles on 3-D function points.  From that time on I have followed his writing.<br />This book shows Mr. Whitmire at his finest:  someone who thoroughly knows his subject and is willing to dig deeply into difficult topics and concepts.  In this book he applies his keen intellect to classifying and explaining the body of knowledge devoted to object-oriented design measurement.<br />He starts by putting measurement into the context of software engineering.  This is done with a thoroughness lays the foundation for the rest of the book.  The section on the design process is excellent. If you are a highly technical project manager or involved in the estimation process you will find this section invaluable. The section on selecting measures finishes the first part of the book and arms you with enough information begin using O-O design measurement.<br />Part II of the book is not for the faint of heart, but is necessary reading if you truly want to understand object oriented design measurement (and the rest of the book).  It is devoted to the technical foundations of design measurement, and gets into some interesting territory (well, I found it interesting - your mileage will vary).  It starts with set theory and drills down into all of the related math.  Be prepared to engage in deep thinking here.  Your efforts will prepare you for the next section, which covers measurement theory in the same detail.  If you make it through the math you will have passed a significant milestone and will be well on your way to understanding object oriented measurement.  You will also find the section on the theory of objects to be easier reading, and you will also see objects in a completely different way.  It is here (after plowing through the previous sections of the book) that I saw how I could apply this book to topics that on the surface had little to do with the author's original scope.  For example, I saw immediate application of the principles in security; specifically, role based access controls and directory.  This was reinforced in Section III, which covers design characteristics, complexity, coupling and completeness, and other essential characteristics.<br />Who will find this book useful? Architects and project estimators working on object-oriented projects are the primary audience.  If you are in an organization that wants to achieve CMM level 4 or 5, then the technical foundations of design measurement will prove invaluable.  If you are in a CMM level 4 or 5 organization then this book will also be of interest to members of the PMO (program management office) and SEPG (software engineering process group).  I also believe that systems security professionals who are developing role based access controls and enterprise directory services designers would greatly benefit from this book.the author's original scope.  For example, I saw immediate application of the principles in security; specifically, role based access controls and directory.  This was reinforced in Section III, which covers design characteristics, complexity, coupling and completeness, and other essential characteristics.<br />Who will find this book useful? Architects and project estimators working on object-oriented projects are the primary audience.  If you are in an organization that wants to achieve CMM level 4 or 5, then the technical foundations of design measurement will prove invaluable.  If you are in a CMM level 4 or 5 organization then this book will also be of interest to members of the PMO (program management office) and SEPG (software engineering process group).  I also believe that systems security professionals who are developing role based access controls and enterprise directory services designers would greatly benefit from this book.	2001-02-18
2107485:US	53037408	RRL5CQE735IIU	0201432870	365748927	Automated Software Testing: Introduction, Management, and Performance: Introduction, Management, and Performance	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	The definitive book on software testing	How can I possibly add to the 33 previous glowing reviews of this outstanding book?  To start, this book is about much more than automated software testing - it is a guide to setting up and operating a solid testing organization.  Yet, it is about much more than organizing and managing testing - it also explains how testing fits within the development life cycle and provides in-depth details on different testing techniques.  It goes further still - it introduces a testing life cycle called the Automated Test Life-Cycle Methodology (ATLM), which is [in my opinion] a major contribution to the software testing profession.<br />The authors obviously know their stuff.  They share invaluable knowledge on how to organize softwarte testing, covering every facet from building a business case to staffing considerations. This is augmented by a work breakdown structure (WBS) for implementing testing, which is a great foundation for a project plan.  As someone who evangelizes using WBS as the basis for project planning and estimating I think this alone is worth the price of the book. The job descriptions for test staff, backed up with sound advice on the recruiting and interviewing process, add to the value.<br />Their approach to managing the testing process is the best I have ever seen, and if followed will transform any test function or organization into a cost-effective center of excellentce that will pay big dividends in downstream service delivery.<br />I think the clear, cogent definitions of testing techniques and associated documentation removes a lot of the ambiguity that plagues the profession. This information is a good refresher for experienced practitioners and great training material for new testers.<br />This book covers a lot of ground: organization, process, procedures and techniques, business case development and test management.  Each of these subjects could merit an entire book, yet this book treats each in depth and detail, and sets the interrelationships among the subjects.  This is no small task and earns my recommendation that if you only buy one book on software testing this should be it.among the subjects.  This is no small task and earns my recommendation that if you only buy one book on software testing this should be it.	2001-02-11
2107809:US	53037408	R5EWVKMHJMDSQ	0965909301	63482447	Call Center Management on Fast Forward:  Succeeding in Today's Dynamic Inbound Environment (1st Edition)	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Not only for call centers - IT help desks need this too!	I am writing this review from the perspective of an IT consultant who sets up processes and procedures for service delivery.  A call center and an IT help desk are two very different animals.  This book is written for call center managers, yet should be required reading for IT help desk managers and staff.<br />As someone who has set up IT help desks and has also provided application support to call centers I often wondered why typical call centers were so well managed and IT help desks, for the most part, are not.  This book goes a long way towards explaining the dichotomy by showing how call center professionals approach service.  It contains a wealth of information that should be carefully read by IT help desk professionals who want to implement a world-class operation.<br />The planning and management framework section of this book starts on the right note: service levels.  This is followed by clear explanations of quantitative factors such as call load forecasting, staffing and service level metrics.<br />Some things that set this book apart are the sections on quality and productivity, and new technologies.  The authors go well beyond how to effectively manage call centers by discussing how to integrate new technologies and exploit technology to provide the best possible service.  I also liked the section on characteristics of best managed call centers - the information provides an effective roadmap to excellence and benchmarking tool.<br />Although I am not familiar with the entire body of technical literature on call center management I have to believe that this is one of the most complete books on the subject.  I am familiar with the body of literature on IT help desks and can attest that this book needs to be included in the libraries and required reading lists of all IT help desk professionals.	2001-02-10
2110218:US	53037408	R3K02CEJM1OJTX	020167520X	9043026	Realizing eBusiness with Components	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Great approach to design, development &amp; implementation	This book is a well written guide that crams a coherent approach to developing e-business systems into 233 pages.<br />The theme of this book is component-based development (CBD), which I personally found to be an effective way to design complex systems that can be implemented in a carefully managed manner. The concept of an architecture that is based on &quot;plug-in&quot; components is powerful in the abstract.  Like many abstractions CBD could have remained as a theoretical approach had the author not skillfully laid out a map to transforming these abstractions into reality.<br />The book jumps right into aligning business to IT, making a business case for CBD, and how to plan e-business projects using a CBD approach. It then delves into details that clearly show this isn't another book on theory or unproven ideas.<br />What sets this book apart from many books on architecture is the fact that support and service delivery are interwoven into the approach, which takes architecture out of the realm of &quot;ivory tower&quot;.  The author's approach is pragmatic and remains focused on business requirements and delivering systems that have real value to end users. As such, this book provides invaluable advice on how to plan for operations, administration and maintenance of systems after they have been released into production.<br />While business and production issues receive thorough treatment, this book sticks with its theme by providing a realistic framework in which to design an architecture.  It then shows how to use the design as the basis of e-business system development and deployment.  This is reinforced by the way the book is laid out to support project stages and phases.<br />I discovered a lot of great ideas between the covers of this slim book making it, page for page, one of the most valuable books in my library.<br />Who needs this book?  Architects and cheif technical officers, of course, but I think anyone who is assigned to manage development, testing and release of e-business systems should also read it.  Project managers who are tasked with managing e-business implementation projects might find the information on managing e-business projects to be the difference between success and failure.ing and release of e-business systems should also read it.  Project managers who are tasked with managing e-business implementation projects might find the information on managing e-business projects to be the difference between success and failure.	2001-02-08
2110395:US	53037408	R22B1P7L1MV2AG	1558606653	953305415	Developing E-Business Systems & Architectures: A Manager's Guide	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	A real gem with a misleading title	The title of this book is misleading.  If you are seeking a book about how to actually develop e-business systems I recommend Enterprise System Architectures or Realizing E-business with Components.  However, if you are looking for a book that clearly explains what e-business really means then this book is a gem.<br />What this book is really about is how to develop an e-business strategy and how to restructure brick and mortar business processes to make the transition to e-business.  These topics are often overlooked by those who are bent on jumping on the e-business bandwagon because their competitors are doing it.  Therein lies the real value of this book.  The approach to developing an e-business strategy will warm the hearts of MBAs who will feel right at home with the basis of the strategy: Micheal Porter's Model of Competition.  Good treatment is also given to value propositions and how to effectively craft them in support of an e-business strategy.  All in all, great stuff.<br />Strategy is followed by a realistic look at business process reengineering.  Just when you thought Champy and Hammer were old news you see that BPR is very much alive and well in companies that have effectively made the transition to e-business.<br />The authors next take you on a whirlwind tour of the underlying technologies, and they do it well.  MBAs and other management types will feel comfortable with this material.  Even technical types will find this to be good reading (and I hope that technical staff will read this business-oriented book because there is much for them to learn from it).<br />Implementation of an e-business infrastructure and transitioning to it are covered pretty thoroughly considering how few pages are devoted to these subjects.  Bear in mind that this book is pretty high level, so don't expect to use it for detailed work breakdown structures. That said, there are a lot of nuggets of advice and information that uncover some of the larger risks.<br />This book's strengths are its business-oriented approach to e-business and the informative tour of associated issues and technology.  While I was initially disappointed in it because I wanted a more technical book I quickly realized that there are many technical books on the subject, but few which focus on the business side.  In fact, there are none I have read to date that cover the business side as well as this book.  I also thought that the graphics in this book were among the best I have ever seen for visually conveying concepts and information.ook's strengths are its business-oriented approach to e-business and the informative tour of associated issues and technology.  While I was initially disappointed in it because I wanted a more technical book I quickly realized that there are many technical books on the subject, but few which focus on the business side.  In fact, there are none I have read to date that cover the business side as well as this book.  I also thought that the graphics in this book were among the best I have ever seen for visually conveying concepts and information.	2001-02-08
2111135:US	53037408	R1L1BY3BGE52EH	0970133103	174962145	Making E-Business Work : A Guide to Software Testing in the Internet Age	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	Disappointing for testing pros - OK for managers &amp; PMs	This book does not contain any useful information for software test professionals.  It is little more than a whitepaper that takes a ten-thousand foot view of web testing and why it should be done, with lightweight examples.<br />However, this book does highlight activities and milestones that are essential to deploying web-based solutuions.  From this point of view it does have value for managers and PMs who are responsible for making a business case for web-based projects.<br />For professional testers I recommend either Testing Applications on the Web by Hung Quoc Nguyen or Client Server Testing on the Desktop and Web by Daniel J. Mosley.<br />For project sponsors and project managers this book would nicely augment Web Project Management: Delivering Successful Commercial Web Sites by Ashley Friedlein.	2001-02-08
2115305:US	53037408	R3OARR5CY0V92E	0201709074	45394866	IT Architectures and Middleware: Strategies for Building Large, Integrated Systems	Books	5	75	75	N	Y	A rare book that fully serves beginners &amp; expreienced pros	This book is for two audiences: (1)Those who need a quick course in IT architectures in general and e-commerce architectures in particular, and (2)experienced IT architects who want to further their professional knowledge. I know this sounds like a near-impossible order for a 296 page book, but the author manages to pull off the near impossible.<br />My background encompasses both architectures and middleware, among other disciplines. By the time I had read 15 pages I was marveling at how well the author described complex concepts.  My first thought was this book is one I would recommend to less experienced analysts and architects to kick-start their knowledge.  By page 40 I was enlightened--and profoundly so--on the strengths and weaknesses of transaction process monitors vs. message queueing.  I thought I knew a thing or two about these subjects based on my extensive experience with Bea's Tuxedo and more recent experience with IBM's MQSeries.  After reading the brief but extremely well articulated section in the book I felt as though I really understood both approaches for the first time!<br />The rest of the book is a fast tour of object technology, architectures, database management and transaction management.  It contains one gem of insight or knowledge after the other.  While technical books are not usually &quot;page turners&quot; this one certainly is (that, or I seriously need to get a life).  Even the short section on organizational and project management context contained great information.<br />To summarize:  This book is well suited for both beginners and experienced professionals.  The author covers a lot of ground in such a manner that the beginner can comprehend the complexities of IT architectures and the proper application of middleware.  The experienced practitioner will find one thought provoking fact or insight after another that they may not have considered.  The author has both wide and deep knowledge on a number of topics.  He also has, in my opinion, one of the keenest minds in the industry. I hope he takes the time to write more books because I believe he made a significant contribution to the body of IT architecture knowledge with this book.in my opinion, one of the keenest minds in the industry. I hope he takes the time to write more books because I believe he made a significant contribution to the body of IT architecture knowledge with this book.	2001-02-04
2115985:US	53037408	R2COBUCYVU98UG	0849398363	360261112	Enterprise System Architectures: Building Client Server and Web Based Systems	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Comprehensive, complete and invaluable	This book is an A to Z compendium of how to design, build, deploy and maintain enterprise-wide architectures.  As such it is one of those rare books that should be in every architect's and consultant's short list of resources.<br />The book is divided into four sections.  The first two sections lay the groundwork by providing an overview of network-centric computing solutions, then providing the foundation in the form of architectural frameworks.  Section two, in particular, is valuable because the frameworks address both application delivery (development)and service delivery factors that need to be taken into account.  I like this holistic approach because production support requirements are addressed early on - something that is lacking from many such books.<br />Section three covers the design and implementation of an architecture in great detail, with a lot of emphasis on testing, release strategy and infrastructure requirements.  Section four is devoted to special topics, such as security, knowledge management and collaborative computing, and data mining.  Some highlights of this section include information delivery and &quot;componentware&quot;.  What I liked most about this section was the in-depth treatment of managing costs of a production client/server environment.<br />This book has reinforced some of my previous ideas and experience, and has opened my eyes to factors that I had not carefully considered on past projects that involved application or service delivery.  I like the coherent and comprehensive approach taken in this book for all aspects of enterprise architectures, and applaud the authors for addressing the hard part: production support of solutions.  This book will travel with me to every engagement and will be the first general purpose reference to which I will turn for ideas and methods. If you are a consultant or practitioner in architecture, applications delivery or service delivery this book will be a valuable addition to your library and bag of tricks.ry and bag of tricks.	2001-02-04
2121888:US	53037408	R3NJJA2J9GXQ8	0471296201	30086661	Constructing Blueprints for Enterprise IT Architectures	Books	2	15	17	N	N	A disappointing book from a favorite author	I loathe giving a bad review of a book by an author whose prior works are [in my opinion] classics that have greatly influenced my thinking and professional growth.  However,this book is a disappointment.<br />The &quot;blueprints&quot; given in this book are not as coherent nor are they described with the same sparkling prose for which Mr. Boar is known. I found his descriptions muddled, and his presentations redundant because the same diagrams are used over and over, which I personally found to be irritating.<br />Also, there are no fresh ideas in the approach - the blueprints are clearly based on the Zachman Framework.  Since I am a strong proponent of this framework and approach to IT architecture I agree with the ideas and concepts behind the book.  There are better, more articulate descriptions of the Zachman Framework in Enterprise Architucture Planning by Spewak and Hill, and Data Stores, Data Warehousing, and the Zachman Framework by Inmon, Zachman and Geiger.<br />My disappointment with this book may be because of one or more of the following reasons:  Mr. Boar was pressured by the publisher to produce another book and this is the result, or [possibly] because he has wandered into areas where he is somewhat out of his element.  The world of IT strategy, in which he is an acknowledged expert and fresh thinker, is not the same world as architecture.  His wonderful analogies using the works of Sun Tzu and Niccolo Machiavelli to reinforce his approach to strategy in his prior books do not play well in the architecture domain, which is the focus of this book.<br />My recommendation is to sidestep this book if you are interested in IT architecture and consider, instead, one or both of the ones I recommended above.  On the other hand, if you have an interest in IT strategy or aligning IT to business, any of Mr. Boar's books on strategic planning or IT alignment are insightful and important reading.	2001-01-30
2125887:US	53037408	RS2J3JU6S1BZL	0135714648	564479329	Customer Oriented Software Quality Assurance	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Too basic for the SQA practitioner, but ...	I agree with the previous reviewer that this book is a basic primer on software quality assurance. From the perspective of a software quality assurance practitioner I would have rated this book at 3 stars and moved on.<br />However, this book has much to offer to four domains outside of SQA:<br />(1) Developers - most developers are woefully unaware of the basics of SQA.  They have no idea of the much larger picture and how they fit into the scheme of things in a process that is designed to deliver a quality software product.  In fairness to developers they have a daunting task just keeping up with the techniques and technologies that characterize their domain. What this book will do for a developer, particularly one who is working within the context of Extreme Programming (XP), is to provide a foundation for software quality.  It also provides an awareness of SEI's capability maturity model (CMM), about which most developers outside of defense-related software organizations probably don't know much. It also gives a good overview of ISO 9000-3 (also known as TickIT).<br />(2) Testers - software testing and SQA are two vastly different functions.  Testing is done to verify and validate software or to break it. In the verification and validation stage testers find the answer to: Did we build the right thing?  Did we build it right? This is done in the user acceptance/product test environment.  Testers try to break software in the staging/pre-production environment. In this respect testers are the natural enemy of developers. Contrast this with SQA - this function is a process and oversight function that is usually performed at the program management office (PMO) or software engineering process group level. In an ideal world SQA concerns themselves with developing and implementing processes that minimize defects and rework.  They work with trends, statistics and other quantitative methods and attempt to answer questions such as:  Where in the development life cycle did the defect get introduced? What can we do to the process to prevent it from happening again? This book exposes testers to a brave new world called SQA and shows how they fit into the much larger picture of delivering quality.<br />(3) Production Services (a.k.a, production support, application support, and a plethora of other names) - this group is on the front line and is comprised of a number of functions, all of which would benefit from this book.  The help desk staff will have a clear idea of quality indicators to measure that mean something to both the business and the applications delivery team.  For example, while defect density metrics may mean something to the SQA group, it is of less concern to the help desk.  On the other hand, the help desk (and tier 2 application support) would find metrics such as defect removal efficiency to me a useful measure.  This metric is the ratio of defects found in testing and defects discovered production. This does three things:  shows how effective the testing function is, provides a baseline for developer resources needed to fix the problems, and provides an indication of the resources necessary to support an application.<br />(4) Project manager - here is a succinct resource that shows you where you need to focus your quality efforts during the development life cycle.<br />I liked the fact that the author resisted the temptation to write a ten pound tome on a subject that could have consumed thousands of pages.  At 208 pages it is an easy read, provides a clear picture of SQA for the non-practitioner, and is well suited for the audience that I cited above. Because of my view of the potential audience for this book I felt that it deserved a solid five stars.id the defect get introduced? What can we do to the process to prevent it from happening again? This book exposes testers to a brave new world called SQA and shows how they fit into the much larger picture of delivering quality.<br />(3) Production Services (a.k.a, production support, application support, and a plethora of other names) - this group is on the front line and is comprised of a number of functions, all of which would benefit from this book.  The help desk staff will have a clear idea of quality indicators to measure that mean something to both the business and the applications delivery team.  For example, while defect density metrics may mean something to the SQA group, it is of less concern to the help desk.  On the other hand, the help desk (and tier 2 application support) would find metrics such as defect removal efficiency to me a useful measure.  This metric is the ratio of defects found in testing and defects discovered production. This does three things:  shows how effective the testing function is, provides a baseline for developer resources needed to fix the problems, and provides an indication of the resources necessary to support an application.<br />(4) Project manager - here is a succinct resource that shows you where you need to focus your quality efforts during the development life cycle.<br />I liked the fact that the author resisted the temptation to write a ten pound tome on a subject that could have consumed thousands of pages.  At 208 pages it is an easy read, provides a clear picture of SQA for the non-practitioner, and is well suited for the audience that I cited above. Because of my view of the potential audience for this book I felt that it deserved a solid five stars.	2001-01-26
2126680:US	53037408	R2ZSDBAACB3F78	0521645689	900127127	Process Patterns: Building Large-Scale Systems Using Object Technology (SIGS: Managing Object Technology)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Keep going back to this book ... keep getting more from it	In the two years since I first read this book I have found myself going back to it like an old friend.  It is a constant source of information that focuses on application development processes that are set forth in the form of patterns.<br />The explanatory text covering processes, phases and stages in the OOSP (object-oriented software process) has crystalized the development process like no other book in my library. The accompanying patterns have been a source of best practices that I keep referring to in one consulting engagement after another.<br />This, and the companion (More Process Patterns) are an A to Z resource for development, application delivery and service delivery.  I have used it in the past as a resource for developing and implementing software engineering processes.  My present situation (in early 2001) finds me using this book as a source of ideas on how to integrate application delivery and service delivery for a model on information technology management that I co-developed.  The approach provided in the book, the framework of OOSP, and the patterns themselves have heavily influenced the development and refinement of the model.  They have also further clarified my ideas on development life cycles that have led me into the Rational Unified Process camp.<br />From the foregoing it is clear that this book remains a valid reference on system development, as well as the foundation of service delivery (which is addressed in more detail in More Process Patterns). It is also must reading for project managers and software engineering process practitioners.  What is not so obvious, but in my opinion eaqually valid, is that this book also provides a foundation for a solid software quality assurance program.  It does so by providing patterns that have clearly defined quality objectives for every phase and stage in the development life cycle.  This is an unexpected bonus that I did not catch the first time through the book.<br />I strongly recommend that anyone involved in development (maintenance or project level efforts),  and SQA read this book. If your focus is application and service delivery, get this book as a foundation for More Process Patterns, which is more applicable to those areas.  Regardless of what your job is in the IT or consulting world you will find information and ideas that in this book that will influence your thinking and approach.nyone involved in development (maintenance or project level efforts),  and SQA read this book. If your focus is application and service delivery, get this book as a foundation for More Process Patterns, which is more applicable to those areas.  Regardless of what your job is in the IT or consulting world you will find information and ideas that in this book that will influence your thinking and approach.	2001-01-26
2132640:US	53037408	RVRCEBQDTT7U0	0130962880	152404890	High Availability: Design, Techniques and Processes	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Another building block in the Enterprise Computing Series	You cannot judge a book by its cover in most cases.  This book's cover, however, subtly provides clues about what's inside.  The picture is a panoramic view of Hong Kong taken from Victoria Peak. It accurately portrays the book, which is a high-level view of a wide number of topics related to high availability.  If you are expecting nuts-and-bolts technical information, then you are better off purchasing Blueprints for High Availability. If you want a &quot;how to&quot; book that blends a specific technical approach with processes you should look at Mission Critical Systems Management.  However, if you want a book that provides a clear set of processes, takes a business case approach, and touches on most of the issues associated with high availability, then this book is what you are looking for.<br />Like Hong Kong, where realities are in the eye and mind of the beholder, the book can be viewed as addressing either high availability or service level management.  In fact, the book uses service level management as the driving force behind achieving high availability.<br />Included in the panoramic view of high availability are the many issues and factors that need to be understood in order to achieve high availability. It starts out with reasons why high availability is important, and quickly segues into factors, such as total cost of ownership (the treatment is pretty close to what GartnerGroup has been peddling since the early 90s).  It does cause one to get back to basics and consider that a high availability solution has a lot of hidden costs.<br />The book goes through the process chain needed to develop a business case for high availability (one of the book's strong points, in my opinion), through implementation of the solution itself.  If you are familiar with other books in this series you will recognize the pattern.  Unlike the companion books, though, this one does not contain contradictions or have glaring gaps in the processes.  The authors have thought this one through and have the writing skills to make it readable and understandable.<br />The treatment of service level management is highlighted by a chapter on user availability. If you are in IT you should read and take to heart this section.  User availability is a key component of aligning IT to business.  The complex and myraid political issues in Hong Kong sometimes seem trite compared to the political issues that surround aligning these two factions. The authors, like seasoned China watchers, provide insights about how to understand the seemingly inscrutable players and sage advice on hot to achieve consensus among the two opposing factions.<br />Another area that impressed me was the attention paid to facilities as a key component of high availability. Although this was a high level view, it can serve as a checklist of considerations as you are developing the business case for high availability.  There was one missing fact that I wish the authors would have highlighted: compliance with fire and safety regulations and local building codes.  I have seen cases where well designed solutions that were supported by excellent processes and sound management were compromised by failing a regulatory inspection.  Imagine explaining to a CEO why the multimillion dollar investment in people, process and technology failed because an inspector shut down a mission critical data center because of a building code violation.<br />There is some token attention paid to the technology at the end of the book where high availability features are examined for specific products. Among the products covered are Windows 2000, Novell Netware, Solaris 8, AIX and OS/400.  Also covered are various hardware platforms, such as S/390, AS/400, RS/6000 and Compaq Proliant server, and Oracle 8i availability features.<br />Bottom line:  This book is about processes.  It complements and augments Blueprints for High Avalability by wrapping a sound approach to making a case for, and implementing, high availability.  It is also a great companion to Mission Critical Systems Management, again by providing complementary processes to the approach taken in that excellent book.<br />I wish the authors had summarized the issues and factors in an appendix of checklists, but other than that, this book is a solid addition to any service delivery library.gh availability.  It is also a great companion to Mission Critical Systems Management, again by providing complementary processes to the approach taken in that excellent book.<br />I wish the authors had summarized the issues and factors in an appendix of checklists, but other than that, this book is a solid addition to any service delivery library.	2001-01-21
2133326:US	53037408	R2544AF2D1Z5B6	0132402920	618972930	Mission Critical Systems Management	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Update 3 1/2 Years Later	I first reviewed this book three and a half years ago.  It is time for an updated review to reaffirm this book's value nearly four years after it was first published.<br />First, since this book was published there have only been two (that I know of) books that address the topic of mission critical systems management: Blueprints for High Availability: Designing Resilient Distributed Systems and High Avaliability: Design, Techniques and Processes.<br />Second, after reading the other two books this one continues to have a solid place - it fills in gaps of the other two.<br />Third, Mission Critical Systems Management contains the best approach to service level management from among the three books in this category.<br />The key strengths of this book are its straightforward approach to designing, deploying and maintaining highly available systems on a 24x7 basis.  The author chronicles his own approach to doing this, which lends authority and credibility to the book. The service level agreement format provided in the book continues to be one of the best I have come across. And the approach itself is sound.<br />There are no discernable weaknesses. Three and a half years ago I gave this book 4 stars because it cited specific products.  I am giving it 5 stars today because in retrospect this complaint is irrelevant.  What counts is the fact that a technology book written nearly four years ago is as valid and valuable today as when it was first written.<br />Bottom line: Mission Critical Systems Management contains a good balance of process and technical detail, and provides a clear path to achieving 24x7 operations.  It fills the gaps of, and augments, the two other books on the subject: High Avaliability: Design, Techniques and Processes (process-oriented) and Blueprints for High Availability: Designing Resilient Distributed Systems (technology-oriented).<br />If you haven't read this book because of its age, read it and marvel at how timeless the contents are.  If you read it when it first came out, re-read it and discover how prescient the author was when he sat down to write it.f you read it when it first came out, re-read it and discover how prescient the author was when he sat down to write it.	2001-01-20
2144738:US	53037408	RX2R21G7I925A	0130222984	535189308	IT Organization: Building  A Worldclass Infrastructure	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Flawed, but some excellent concepts make it worthwhile	This book has some flaws, such as the table of contents that reminds me of my first c program with pointers going off into the ozone. I managed to eventually become proficient in c.  By looking past the book's flaws I managed to discover some valuable concepts and ideas for getting a handle on the thorny problems of aligning IT with business requirements.<br />One of the most valuable concepts in the book is an IT organization that is defined by technology layers as opposed to products.  For example, a compelling arguement is made for organizing the systems administration function as a single group without regard to what brand of system is being administered.  The same argurment applies to organizing DBAs, network administrators, etc. in the same manner.<br />This is a powerful concept that has a lot going for it.  For example, in the traditional organization system administration is performed by a number of groups, each focusing on NT, UNIX, etc. This promotes a disjointed and non-repeatable set of processes - if there are processes at all.  This, in turn, leads to an IT organization that has no clear internal communications, a cacophony of wildly different processes and methods, and multiple agendas.  It reinforces the business side's common complaint that IT of out-of-control, with no unified vision, as well as another often heard complaint that IT provides conflicting advice and are their own worst enemy.<br />Contrast the above with the organizational model that is proposed in this book:  all functions are grouped and held together by a common set of processes and procedures.  One easy-to-spot advantage of this type of organization is that service delivery becomes easier. Problems such as synchronizing batch processing (essential to data warehousing), aligned maintenance windows and uniform approaches to problem management become manageable because everyone is on the same team.<br />Another advantage is a leveling of process maturity.  Mainframe administration processes are lot more mature than those employed by your typical NT administrator, who would benefit greatly by &quot;discovering&quot; what was probably in place before he or she was born. And the business - the real reason we IT professionals exist at all - will benefit from the improved and reliable delivery of services and support.<br />There are gaps in some of the processes and organizational paradigms, as pointed out by other reviewers.  These will require some thought on the reader's part to work through and fill.  On the whole, however, I found the book to be a valuable source of concepts and ideas.  The flaws and gaps are offset by some iteas that I though were excellent.  Because I personally gained a much deeper understanding of how to align IT to better meet business needs I gave the book 4 stars (only because I cannot award it 3.5). In spite of the flaws and gaps I do highly recommend this book and hope that potential readers will look beyond the warts and find the enlightening information buried between the covers.processes are lot more mature than those employed by your typical NT administrator, who would benefit greatly by &quot;discovering&quot; what was probably in place before he or she was born. And the business - the real reason we IT professionals exist at all - will benefit from the improved and reliable delivery of services and support.<br />There are gaps in some of the processes and organizational paradigms, as pointed out by other reviewers.  These will require some thought on the reader's part to work through and fill.  On the whole, however, I found the book to be a valuable source of concepts and ideas.  The flaws and gaps are offset by some iteas that I though were excellent.  Because I personally gained a much deeper understanding of how to align IT to better meet business needs I gave the book 4 stars (only because I cannot award it 3.5). In spite of the flaws and gaps I do highly recommend this book and hope that potential readers will look beyond the warts and find the enlightening information buried between the covers.	2001-01-11
2147880:US	53037408	R333QHXQT6J1S3	0132096773	908805310	A Methodology for Developing & Deploying Internet & Intranet Solutions	Books	1	3	3	N	Y	Shallow, disappointing and frustrating	This book had the potential to be great.  Instead it falls short of the mark by a wide margin.<br />Although the book provides a sound framework for developing and deploying solutions, it has a major flaw.  Throughout the author raises interesting issues in the form of rhetorical questions, then ... nothing. Quite disapponting.  Had the questions been followed by solutions or recommendations, then the book would have both substance and value. Substance by stepping up and providing viable answers and solutions to problems faced when developing and implementing internet solutions.  Value by saving us from having to discover the answers on our own, wasting resources along the way.<br />The whole point of buying a book such as this is to benefit from lessons learned.  It is frustrating to realize that the book could have been a valuable resource had the author only taken the time to provide answers to the very questions he raised.	2001-01-08
2155127:US	53037408	R3RRU17TDJRZ2	0471253111	52389233	Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The only holistic view of digital security in print	In Secrets and Lies Mr. Schneier weaves an exquisite tapestry that depicts every facet of digital security in detail and depth.  The thread from which this tapestry is woven is excellent writing that is informative, entertaining and sardonic.<br />This book is a holistic view of security from every angle.  His cogent analysis of threats, attacks and adversaries and their motivations goes deep into social and pyschological aspects of those who would breach our systems.  Both blantant and subtle threats are examined in a straightforward and informative manner. Types of attacks are given the same thorough treatment. Everyone from pimple-faced hackers and wannabes, to criminals, infowarriors and government organs are profiled in a consistent manner.<br />Mr. Schneier's treatment of threats, attacks and adversaries shows an aspect of security that is often overlooked by the technical practitioner.  This set of subjects could have been a book in itself - and a best seller at that.  The main value, though, is this section of the book will enlighten the &quot;in-the-weeds&quot; technical specialists about a much wider set of issues associated with digital security.<br />The treatment of technology shows that the author not only deeply understands risks and the human side of security, but is also a master of the technical underpinnings.  Every major technical facet of the security business is explained in a clear manner.  One of the book's strengths is that it delivers  clear explainations of complex techical topics in such a way that non-technical people can easily understand.  As such it gives an understanding of security to those who most need it - key decision makers and executive management.<br />As someone who works in the field of e-commerce security I strongly recommend that my technical peers, clients and executive management read this book.  Read it twice, in fact - read it the first time to gain an appreciation for just how complex the practice of digital security really is, and the second time to catch the plethora of sage advice and subtle hints that the author has sprinkled through this excellent book.ity really is, and the second time to catch the plethora of sage advice and subtle hints that the author has sprinkled through this excellent book.	2001-01-03
2158297:US	53037408	R2S0RWNA060021	0471356018	833184251	Blueprints for High Availability: Designing Resilient Distributed Systems	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Pearls of Wisdom, Sage Advice and Doses of Reality	High availability is almost like the Holy Grail - believers know it exists, but getting it can be a quest.  Not that it's an elusive, impossible-to-achieve objective - it's just expensive and the path to high availability is filled with challenges, blind alleys and the risk of spending money on the wrong things.<br />This book covers every conceivable aspect of high availability, from application recovery to the [Zen] of service level agreements.  The emphasis is on the underlying technologies, with a good deal of attention paid to processes and business considerations as well.<br />There are two things that stand out about this book:  it is comprehensive and the authors are in-the-trenches technical types who can actually write.<br />It is obvious that the authors have stuggled with and mastered  every technology and technique about which they have written.  This is a refreshing change from the plethora of technical books written by professional writers who are assigned book projects because they have writing ability, but not necessarily any real technical background.  So, in a world that is littered with books with no substance, this gem is definitely worth buying.<br />I am not going to rehash the table of contents, which is readily available on this page - I will say that the authors gave each of the topics excellent treatment on a number of levels.  First, they have deleved into the mechanics of each topic, they have shown the strengths and weaknesses of each, and in many cases, have provided anecdotes and real-life stories about their experiences with designing and implementing similar solutions. The anecdotal content follows a pattern:  it points out problems and how the authors resolved those problems when they encountered them. These alone make the book invaluable, and increase the credibility of the authors.<br />Who should read this book?  Systems engineers and managers.<br />Systems engineers will benefit from the wealth of technical information provided in the book, and will also benefit from the excellent explanations of underlying mechanics of how the various technologies and solution sets work.  I am sure that most systems engineers will find the book's many anecdotes to be entertaining reading that imparts valuable information.<br />Managers should read this book because it puts into perspective how various pieces of a high availability solution set fits together. It also provides a dose of reality that might just stop some &quot;suit&quot; from decreeing a technical direction without fully understanding the full set of issues and factors.  This book will provide the issues and factors to managers in a readable manner.ed in the book, and will also benefit from the excellent explanations of underlying mechanics of how the various technologies and solution sets work.  I am sure that most systems engineers will find the book's many anecdotes to be entertaining reading that imparts valuable information.  <br />Managers should read this book because it puts into perspective how various pieces of a high availability solution set fits together. It also provides a dose of reality that might just stop some &quot;suit&quot; from decreeing a technical direction without fully understanding the full set of issues and factors.  This book will provide the issues and factors to managers in a readable manner.	2000-12-31
2161314:US	53037408	R3T1YISZ502XX8	0195135326	755582395	Information Graphics: A Comprehensive Illustrated Reference	Books	5	46	48	N	Y	Consultant's best friend	As a consultant in the computer industry I often wonder if I am a technical specialist or a technical writer because of the high volume of writing I do.  While I have honed my writing skills through both experience and training in Information Mapping, I used to be at a loss about how to best portray technical data in my documents.<br />Information Graphics: A Comprehensive Illustrated Reference changed that.  With this handy reference, which is never far from my keyboard, I have a 450-page catalog of ideas and guidance.  What is remarkable is that in the 450 pages are 4,000 illustrations (nearly 10 per page).  This book has allowed me to measurably improve the quality of my proposals and deliverables by picking the best possible way to convey information.<br />Don't let the fact that I am in the computer consulting industry deter you from buying this book - if you are in business, graphic arts, advertising and marketing or just about any other profession that uses data this book will be worth its weight in gold.	2000-12-29
2170219:US	53037408	RBZAW1WHDGPCO	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Solid foundation	This book provides an interesting and entertaining history of the evolution of risk management - although it was more aptly called \\"winning at games of chance\\" at the beginning.<br /><br />On a serious note, the book's main value to me is sharing it with colleagues and friends who shy away from probability and other quantitative methods. It has broken the \\"I-hate-math\\" barrier for more than one person with whom I have shared a copy (or purchased one as a gift), and I dare say it has helped in their professional advancement. This is particularly true for project managers who get tossed into the profession by chance (yes, that was intended as an oblique pun), and quickly discover that their success depends upon a good understanding of probability in order to correctly estimate work as well as manage project risk. Most of these folks are great at relationship management, but fall into the \\"I-hate-math\\" category. This book leads them to the math part via a great story with gentle introductory examples of the underlying numbers. In that respect it not only sparks interest in the subject, but provides the self-confidence to wade into the \\"dreaded subject\\".<br /><br />Before I go off into a rambling and confusing review of an excellent book, let me end this with two points: (1) it is great reading, regardless of your interest in probability or risk - view it as an historical novel and enjoy it, and (2) it is a gentle introduction to [admittedly] dry material that you will have to get from technical books. I loved it - your mileage may vary.	2000-12-20
2183083:US	53037408	R3RUU8BXT2BLWH	0471325465	272624729	The Fast Forward MBA in Project Management: Quick Tips, Speedy Solutions, and Cutting-Edge Ideas	Books	5	61	64	N	Y	PM's Best Friend	While my favorite text on project management is Visualizing Project Management, this handly treasure chest of PM knowledge and techniques is my constant companion.  It is much more than a quick reference quide - it contains a lot of information that I haven't stumbled across in any other project management book, such as metrics, estimating techniques and sound advice on a number of PM topics that are presented concisely. In other words, this book has a lot of meat and no fluff.<br />If you are starting out as a project manager I recommend Visualizing Project Management as your first book.  However, if you are a practicing and experienced project manager this is &quot;must-have&quot;.  And the price is right!  When was the last time you found a decent book on project management (or any other technical or business subject) priced below $15.00?  Price aside, the value of this book is the content and the fact that it covers project management the way it should be covered: work breakdown structures, risk management, earned value and other controls. I strongly recommend this book.	2000-12-08
2184064:US	53037408	R2CJWBIJ0XNGV6	047135760X	190391537	Visualizing Project Management: A Model for Business and Technical Success (with CD-ROM)	Books	5	41	42	N	Y	Should be on the bookshelf of every PM &amp; aspiring PM	This book explains how to plan, schedule and control projects the right way, starting with a workbreakdown structure through to managing schedule and cost using earned value.  While there are other books that do this, Visualizing Project Management presents this information in an easy-to-read and easy-to-understand manner.  One of my favorite parts of the book explains how to use &quot;cards on the wall&quot; to portray dependencies and sequence, which is the basis of a good schedule.  I also liked how earned value project management is presented. If you want a book that shows in a straightforward manner how to plan and estimate a project with confidence (versus firing up MS Project and starting with a Gantt chart that will aomost surely result in cost and schedule overruns because you did not think through the basics), then this is the book to get.  Moreover, if you want to understand how to correctly schedule a project after it has been planned and estimated (using MS Project or your favorite tool), then Visualizing Project Management is must-reading.  This book also explains in an easy-to-understand maner how to control a project; i.e., what you need to do in order to proactively manage to budget and schedule. I have purchased 8 copies of this book over the years as gifts to colleagues who were assigned to manage projects - each person loved the book.	2000-12-07
2194375:US	53037408	R1CRLBMSVGX72L	0138218447	931077819	Software Metrics: Establishing a Company-Wide Program	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The best foundation for process improvement	This book, written in 1986, is as applicable today as it was when it was written over 14 years ago. To summarize, this book is a diary of the trials and tribulations of implementing a metrics program at Hewlett-Packard that is packed with practical advice that came from lesson's learned and a great roadmap to implementing a program of process improvement.  The book addresses the difficulties and rewards of establishing an effective, viable metrics program.  The authors clearly show the business and technical value that rewards the daunting effort, and guides the reader by providing an engaging saga that is easy to read packed with factual information.  I was also struck by the excellent use of [the 144] charts that convey meaningful statistical information and portray data in a clear manner. Another nice surprise is the attention paid to metrics and how to effectively interpret and use them after a project transitions to production. Although I first read this book when it was originally published, it took 14 years of experience in the trenches to fully appreciate the message and content embodied within this book.  I strongly recommend this book to the beginer and exerienced practitioner alike.  If you have previously read this book I urge you to re-read it.  Over the years I have learned and re-learned from this slim (288-page) book. I expect to spot additional gems of insight as I re-read it in the future. If you by one book on software metrics and process improvement, this is the one to get!	2000-11-29
2518861:US	53037408	R1IC1T01091UDV	0130191957	263328453	IT Services: Costs, Metrics, Benchmarking and Marketing	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	&quot;Must-reading&quot; for IT pros and consultants!	This is one of the most important books on IT strategic and tactical planning, service support and service delivery that you can buy.  More to the point, the information that this book provides is easily the equivalent  of reading a pile of [expensive] Meta Group or GartnerGroup reports on the  costs, metrics and tactics of running an IT shop and managing the delivery  of services.  You can view the table of contents online via this Amazon  page, so I am not going to repeat that information or the glowing comments  of other readers.  The most compelling reasons to get this book are:  (1)everyone to whom I have showed this book have, after a quick scan,  immediately ordered a copy for themselves; and, (2) the company for which I  work ordered 10 copies to give to some of our most important clients.  I  cannot think of a stronger testimony to this book's value.	2000-04-22
2762126:US	53037408	R341VT52KDG2GK	0750671637	642429386	Systems Thinking: Managing Chaos and Complexity: A Platform for Designing Business Architecture	Books	5	35	42	N	Y	Must have for all consultants!	This is an absolutely amazing book that should be required reading for all consultants (technical and business).  I work in the computer industry and  have amassed a large library of reference material and books on nearly  every subject from project management to technical tomes (databases,  operating systems, networking, programming, etc.)  This book goes to the  top of the list as one of the most influential works that I have read in  the past 25 years.  Regardless of what your areas of expertise are  (technical or business) I strongly recommend that you purchase this book  and make the time to read it from cover-to-cover.	1999-10-31
2780626:US	53037408	R1IXZ4S5KWSMR3	0130950858	198069192	System Engineering	Books	2	19	23	N	Y	Superficial	The description of the book has more meat than the book itself.  This disappointing book is a 15 short chapter breeze through a multitude of subjects, and does not linger long on any single subject.  There are some  nice diagrams and ten thousand foot views crammed into 374 total pages (the  page count vs. chapter count alone should indicate how superficial this  book is).  An example is the 21 pages devoted to weighty subjects  encompassing project management tasks, configuration management,  verification and validation, quality assurance, decisions and risks. Any  one of the topics would have merited at least 20 page in a serious book on  systems engineering. Useful to sales and marketing types who are selling  systems engineering services, and executive management who might like a  quick overview of systems engineering.  This book is useless for technical  professionals.	1999-10-02
3037657:US	53037408	RWHYM9VH1RYUQ	0138406952	353523248	Software Measurement: A Visualization Toolkit for Project Control and Process Improvement (Hewlett-Packard professional books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Treasure trove of information and formulae	This books is the next step in the evolution of Dr. Barry Boehm's seminal work, Software Engineering Economics (it was NOT written by Dr. Boehm, however). It provides a logically laid out format that examines measurement at each stage of the development life cycle.  I was impressed with the attention paid to testing and V&amp;V.  I have not tried the software that comes with the book (book includes a CD ROM with a product called PAMPAS); however, I view the software as an added bonus. It is certainly not required to gain an extradorinary amount of knowledge from reading the book from cover to cover.  Highly recommended!	1998-04-27
