1403655:US	53047425	R3BIJES5A2IQ7K	0312290896	945422191	The Last Temptation: A Novel	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The Resonance Of Evil	This is the third novel I have read by Val McDermid. The first was, \\"A Place Of Execution\\", and it remains my favorite of the three. This newest offering, \\"Last Temptation\\", is a very good tale, but is definitely not for those readers who prefer to avoid the grisly details of murders, in this case those of a serial killer. There is also brutal violence with both men and women as victims, so read and be prepared. I don't find her descriptions to be gratuitous, just very graphic. He portrayals are probably much more accurate than generic description of violence that have become so prevalent and clich&eacute; that they are barely noticed. This author illustrates for the reader just how vile murder and violence are.<br />This author uses atrocities committed by a group in the 20th century that I generally have tired of reading, as they have become the crutch for any form of evil. It is a tribute to this lady's talent that she has found a more obscure practice of the Germany of the Nazi's to play a very valid role in this novel. She also represents the evil of this group through the effects they have had on generations that were not even alive when they practiced their atrocities. Their twisted science echoes through the victims to their descendents, and this adds an entirely new dimension to the resonance of evil.<br />The only aspect of the story I found troubling was the placement of the two main characters so close together while they were working on different operations. It makes the story work, but from the moment the situation is set, you know this is the Achilles heal that will bring the protagonists to the edge, or possibly over, to their detriment.<br />I don't read many books in this type of genre, but Val McDermid seems as though her work should have a much greater following than it does. If this type of work appeals to you, pick this lady's work up; you will be happy you did.	2002-09-19
1407166:US	53047425	RUWQWNQFJ3E67	0452283701	885128653	Diamond: The History of a Cold-Blooded Love Affair	Books	4	24	24	N	N	It Is All Perception	At one point in the book there is a brief description of the opening remarks at an international gathering of diamond merchants. The featured speaker was explaining the two reasons diamonds have value, \\"vanity and greed\\". For those unfamiliar with the diamond industry and the control that DeBeer's has held over the prices of diamonds, the book's contents may be somewhat of a shock. The monopoly this company holds is so complete, the executives of the company cannot come to The United States for they are likely to be subpoenaed if they did. Events described in the book of major new diamond finds together with owners may greatly diminish DeBeer's hold on their monopoly, but they would likely still control 50% of the world's market.<br />Massive diamonds and a variety of stones that are rare due to their color understandably command whatever price a person is willing to pay. The diamonds that are on the hands of women throughout the world are extremely common, unless they are wearing a golf ball size rock like Elizabeth Taylor. One example the author shares of market manipulation is with a relatively small but perfect stone. When graded d-flawless a diamond is just as the description describes, the price is an entirely different matter. DeBeer's has manipulated the market so that at times such a stone would cost a person $10,000 and when they get greedy or angry, the price becomes $70,000. The price of this grade and size of stone will also change dramatically based on where you make a purchase, head to Tiffany's and you pay for their 5th Avenue location and their name. Head to a less flashy address in the same city, and you will save many thousands of dollars.<br />Matthew Park also covers a wide variety of topics related to these stones, the history of some of the most famous gems, the efforts to control the sale of stones that finance wars, and the people that are out searching and finding massive fortunes of their own. One particularly fascinating tale is of a young woman who finds an area that will yield billions of dollars of value in Canada. At 24 years of age it was her persistence to keep her father interested, and not walking from a site that brought the find to fruition. The other aspect that is covered is the art of taking a rough stone, and then cleaving and polishing it to a gem. One interesting example was the creation of, \\"The Centenary Stone\\". The man who cut and polished the stone took 3 years to create the masterpiece. He spent an entire year studying the rough before making a single move to change it.<br />This book will whet your appetite for reading more about this phenomenon, for the book covers many areas but does not have the length to cover them in depth. It was also unfortunate that all of the pictures of these remarkable jewels were in black and white, which did little to visually communicate how stunning they are.g woman who finds an area that will yield billions of dollars of value in Canada. At 24 years of age it was her persistence to keep her father interested, and not walking from a site that brought the find to fruition. The other aspect that is covered is the art of taking a rough stone, and then cleaving and polishing it to a gem. One interesting example was the creation of, \\"The Centenary Stone\\". The man who cut and polished the stone took 3 years to create the masterpiece. He spent an entire year studying the rough before making a single move to change it.<br />This book will whet your appetite for reading more about this phenomenon, for the book covers many areas but does not have the length to cover them in depth. It was also unfortunate that all of the pictures of these remarkable jewels were in black and white, which did little to visually communicate how stunning they are.	2002-09-16
1409954:US	53047425	R1M2GZJN8NC2IG	0151005567	629061995	Speer: The Final Verdict	Books	4	50	56	N	N	Strange Feeling Of Being Present But Unconcerned	Albert Speer has proved to be a lasting enigma for historians, and of continued interest to the public. This is not the first book written about Speer, and contrary to the title it will not be the last. I found the book to be well done, and while it does bring some new detail to the life of Speer it is not a book that provides any fundamental shifts in generally accepted facts.<br />There are at least two troubling issues that I found worthy of note. The first is a certain arrogance of the author during his introduction when he expresses the opinion that there has not been a proper biography written of Speer. The author is certainly an authority on Speer and had an unusual opportunity to work with and get to know the man as much or more than any other writer. I have read several biographies of Speer, and two of Speer's own works, and there is a great deal of biographic writing available, and it is not as lacking as the author suggests. Issue number 2 is that the author uses David Irving as a reference and also refers to him as a historian. David Irving has been the subject of books, and a man who was handed a miserable defeat in a courtroom in England that condemned him as a dubious historian but perhaps a good researcher, and confirmed that his views of Nazi Germany were largely revisionist and without documentary facts. David Irving may be a researcher, he may even gather accurate information, no where have I read of any legitimate historian grant the same honor and respect to Irving, in fact his is considered little more than a demagogue. His associations with groups that wish to minimize the Holocaust to the point of triviality, if they admit to it at all is well documented, and why Mr. Fest would quote him from all the available sources is a mystery.<br />The author describes Speer as a man with many abilities, but no qualities. This is one of the better summations of Speer that I have read. Others have also correctly characterized him, as John Kenneth Galbraith did, as a very intelligent escapist from the truth. And the words that head these comments are those of Speer himself.<br />The book is based on the premise that it is men like Speer that allow the rise of tyrants like Hitler, Stalin, and the balance of history's representatives of evil. That the tyrants are routinely produced by history, but only those who have a massive supporting cast that are willing to follow, that are willing to selectively see only what they choose to view, and who place ambition above all else, are necessary for the rise of such dictators.<br />The issue that continues to fascinate me is Speer's escape from execution at Nuremberg, He clearly cooperated with the allies to a degree that no other defendant did, and he at least gave the impression of remorse, and played a brilliant game of saying he was responsible for crimes that were committed, but not guilty as he lacked specific knowledge. This is the same charade that allows a defendant in this country to be found not guilty in a court of criminal law, and then to be held responsible in a court of civil law.<br />Speer deserved to hang as much as any of those who actually had the courage to accept their sentence without taking the coward's way out like the Reich Marshall. There is no question that his brilliant organizational skills, and his willingness to accept labor from anywhere that was collected by any means, allowed the war to continue for years longer that it might have without his talents. The idea that Speer knew nothing of the camps while being arguably the closest of friends and confidants of Hitler is preposterous, and it is amazing anyone was able to delude himself or herself otherwise.<br />The other concept I am tired of reading is of the alleged erotic but not carnal relationship between Hitler and Speer. Hitler had wanted to be an architect like Speer since he was a very young man. The two men shared a passion for building and art, and their age differences would suggesta father and son relationship, but taking it to the next level may be sensational, but again I find it tiresome, absurd, and a position that is prurient but unproven.<br />I enjoyed the book with the exceptions that I have noted, I don't believe the book broke any important new ground, and will certainly not be the last book about Albert Speer. The Germany of the Nazis continues to fascinate, and until it ceases to do so books will be continually written.a father and son relationship, but taking it to the next level may be sensational, but again I find it tiresome, absurd, and a position that is prurient but unproven.<br />I enjoyed the book with the exceptions that I have noted, I don't believe the book broke any important new ground, and will certainly not be the last book about Albert Speer. The Germany of the Nazis continues to fascinate, and until it ceases to do so books will be continually written.	2002-09-13
1411099:US	53047425	R4K657L3SIFVA	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	18	20	N	N	19th Century Without A Restrictive Corset	Michel Faber is a wildly inventive and unbridled writer. His first novel, \\"Under The Skin\\", was a truly unique first novel that I enjoyed and rated highly, and his collection of short stories, \\"Some Rain Must Fall\\", was also a decidedly unique trip. I agree without reservation that this can be characterized as the 21st century's first 19th century novel. The players in this work may roam the same streets of Charles Dickens and Wilkie Collins, but their experiences never crack the barrier of a PG-13 level of experience. There are no bounds for this tale; it is as vivid, as detailed, and as raw as the streets and society it describes were. I think virtually every reader will find some or even many descriptions uncomfortable, but they are not gratuitous, they are just graphic and unnervingly detailed.<br />The narrator that brings you along in their colorful, hazardous, and unseemly wake, is absolutely wonderful. The places you are brought, the sights you see, and all else that assails your senses at least as often as it pleases them makes for one amazing read, at times almost overwhelming. However this is what Michel Faber does, he is detailed without a care, and if that means getting in the reader's face with unpleasant truths he marches forward without hesitation. He does not intensify the positive and minimize the negative. Reality can be gruesome, and he shows this time period in England without any of the polishing of a Merchant and Ivory production. This book takes place not only in the eye of the mind, but all the other senses as well.<br />This is a massive work, but what makes it different is that it does not cover a score of generations. This writer does not present a landscape, and if he did it would be the size of a painting by Alfred Bierstadt, measured in feet not inches. For example, you know everything about the character Sugar, there are no holes, nothing that is missing that causes the reader to question why she is who she is and how she got there. The detail is amazing but never overwhelms. William Rackham creates a life that seems to be the most ill conceived arrangement imaginable. But Faber makes it work because he brings you so far in to William's head that the absurd world he creates is the only one a man with his mind could assemble.<br />Faber's work is not like any other author. The world he documents, modifies, and creates, has an intensity that others who have tackled the genre have not explored. This is not a criticism of those that have gone before him, if Dickens had gone this far he never would have been published.<br />This author requires the reader to develop a new type of comfort with his unique cadence and use of language. Of his three books I found this easier to follow, and I do not think this is because I had read his previous work. In fact I would suggest that for those that are new to his work that you start here and work your way back. The experience will be well worth your time.he detail is amazing but never overwhelms. William Rackham creates a life that seems to be the most ill conceived arrangement imaginable. But Faber makes it work because he brings you so far in to William's head that the absurd world he creates is the only one a man with his mind could assemble.<br />Faber's work is not like any other author. The world he documents, modifies, and creates, has an intensity that others who have tackled the genre have not explored. This is not a criticism of those that have gone before him, if Dickens had gone this far he never would have been published.<br />This author requires the reader to develop a new type of comfort with his unique cadence and use of language. Of his three books I found this easier to follow, and I do not think this is because I had read his previous work. In fact I would suggest that for those that are new to his work that you start here and work your way back. The experience will be well worth your time.	2002-09-12
1411172:US	53047425	R12DHR5J2L6XOX	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	4	11	15	N	N	One of His Better Tales	This is the first novel that I have read of this author's work in hardcover. \\"Blood Of Victory\\", is the newest work from Alan Furst, and it follows the issue of all of his previous novels in soft cover format. I have read all of his tales and have found him to be a very solid, consistent writer. His publisher is amongst the shrillest when praising and promoting his work, and I do not know that this helps. Whether or not Alan Furst joins the ranks of writers like John LeCarre is up to readers not his publicist.<br />All his previous works have included questions for discussion at the book's end; this book does not although I would guess the soft cover will. One of the points that have always been raised is that the protagonist in his books always is alive at the end of the novel. I believe this is becoming a problem for Mr. Furst does not write about the same character in a series of events, rather a variety of characters experiencing events in a common time period. His stories inevitably include great risk to his primary characters, and when he removes the possibility of the mortality prior to the book's start, he removes an element of suspense. Since his genre involves clandestine work prior to and including World War II, the missing element cannot fail to become a handicap. He also has several reference points that he mentions in many if not all his books. While these elements are repeated they are not critical to a given book, but they can cause a reader to feel they are out of step with some crucial detail or event.<br />The plot this time centers on the oil fields of Romania, their critical importance to the German war machine, and the variety of attempts to prevent the flow of oil via the Danube. This issue was very real during both of the 20th century's world wars, and Alan Furst uses these historical events to very good advantage.<br />Mr. Furst has an excellent command of the political history of his chosen time period, and this makes for credible reading that is also well crafted by a talented pen. I have enjoyed his books and will continue to read his work in the future. I hope that he decides to allow for more uncertainty in his work, and by doing so maintain a higher level of tension for his readers.hat is also well crafted by a talented pen. I have enjoyed his books and will continue to read his work in the future. I hope that he decides to allow for more uncertainty in his work, and by doing so maintain a higher level of tension for his readers.	2002-09-12
1434542:US	53047425	R2C8A5RWQ6DK8B	0750927720	938432658	Limeys: The True Story of One Man's War Against Ignorance, the Establishment and the Deadly Scurvy	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Two Million	That is the estimated number of men aboard ship that died during the 300 years proceeding the year 1800. Three hundred years is a long time, but the rate of death is comparable to the rate The United States lost soldiers each year during the Vietnam War. The deaths of 6,600+ men per year for three centuries are a staggering number. David I. Harvie explores the history of the preventable disease that killed so many in his book, \\"Limeys\\", a work that will probably be enjoyed by a great many people. The book is part history, part politics, part science, and a great deal of preventable tragedy.<br />The sickness known as scurvy was responsible for up to 75 percent of deaths on lengthy sea voyages. More sailors died from disease than in combat with an enemy, weather, or bad navigation. As early as 1747 Dr. James Lind conducted testing that anticipated methodologies hundreds of years ahead of their time that demonstrated steps to overcoming the problem, even though the actual Vitamin C that was the key was not identified until 1932. It was in this year that the hexuronic acid and Vitamin C were identified as one and the same, and this critical element was finally renamed ascorbic acid.<br />The human body is fantastically complex. Unfortunately this same amazing machine does not produce Vitamin C unlike many other animals. This inability has been responsible for millions of deaths, and remains a killer to the present day. Large population transfers in the form of refugees generally suffer horrendous numbers of dead. Lack of Vitamin C is not the sole cause, but it remains as deadly as it has ever been, while at the same time remaining so easy to prevent.<br />I think most people have heard of scurvy and also have a variety of ideas about who was responsible for finding the key to a cure. What may be less familiar are the centuries that it took to adopt the cure once it was known, and the intentional choices repeatedly made to not provide the food to protect the men who manned these ships. This book is filled with charlatans who peddled worthless cures, which were at times even deadly, and made a fortune selling them. They were able to do so as those in the military and government often stood to gain from quack products, as opposed to providing fruit that would ensure the safety of their men. This history is easily among the worst examples of those in positions of power placing next to no value on human life.<br />This is a fascinating story, well thought out and shared, and should be of interest to anyone who is inquisitive.ned these ships. This book is filled with charlatans who peddled worthless cures, which were at times even deadly, and made a fortune selling them. They were able to do so as those in the military and government often stood to gain from quack products, as opposed to providing fruit that would ensure the safety of their men. This history is easily among the worst examples of those in positions of power placing next to no value on human life.<br />This is a fascinating story, well thought out and shared, and should be of interest to anyone who is inquisitive.	2002-08-21
1435438:US	53047425	R211VZP73WB7M4	0385333676	666439399	The First Billion	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Three for Three	Christopher Reich has produced his third novel, \\"The First Billion\\", and it is a worthy addition to the first two books he offered readers. New authors always seem to be more harshly judged than their more veteran peers which I find quite unfair. The author who is arguably the most successful writer in the whole techno-thriller spy genre has just released his newest book, and while I am in the minority in that I enjoyed the novel, it has been overwhelmingly thrashed. No author is going to produce the perfect book each time out, and no author is going to have an easy time when his or her first book was as successful as Mr. Reich's first work, \\"Numbered Account\\". His first book remains my favorite of the three, and I would place his newest at number two, with, \\"The Runner\\", third. And even though placed third the book was well above the average of much of the production line derivative nonsense that fill bookshelves be they real or in cyberspace.<br />This book is weak in two areas from my standpoint. The author became a bit clich&eacute; when he decided to have a former pilot head a securities firm, and then names it Black Jet Securities. Tying a series of names or forced events to the character's former profession become tiresome when overused. Having the same character purchase a military attack jet on his American Express card also was hard to read without wincing. The other part I had difficulty with was a side story that didn't really seem to be necessary. It served more as a distraction than as a key element to an otherwise good tale. While dealing with what has emerged from the former USSR is fine, dredging up behavior that harkens to the cold war is becoming a bit overused.<br />Mr. Reich is very good when sticking with his expertise in finance, and staying close to that theme made, \\"Numbered Account\\", so very good. And in this book, when focusing on the enormous risks and difficulties of bringing a Russian based technology company public on the NYSE, the book is at its best. He is a talented author, and I hope he gets back to what he is best at. He has shown he does not need to travel the paths that others have already beaten to a pulp. \\"The First Billion\\" will not likely be your favorite book by Mr. Reich; it is still a worthwhile read that is well above the majority of the competition.t its best. He is a talented author, and I hope he gets back to what he is best at. He has shown he does not need to travel the paths that others have already beaten to a pulp. \\"The First Billion\\" will not likely be your favorite book by Mr. Reich; it is still a worthwhile read that is well above the majority of the competition.	2002-08-20
1435844:US	53047425	R30Z9UNHK838WU	0805054529	42109996	This Side of Brightness: A Novel	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Wonderful Work	Colum McCann has written a beautiful book with his work, \\"This Side of Brightness\\". Beautiful in this case may seem odd, but I would use the word here as I would use it to describe a work by John Steinbeck. Human nature and behavior often has trouble rising above decent much less beautiful, but a talented writer can bring painful lives and experiences to paper in prose that is wonderful to read. The pain that is documented is not minimized, rather written in a way that allows the truth to remain unvarnished, and the prose to be rendered by an artist like Mr. McCann.<br />I have read about the men who dug the excavations for the caissons of the Brooklyn Bridge, but never for the hundreds of miles of tunnels throughout the boroughs of New York. Tunneling is an extremely dangerous occupation, and if possible is even more hazardous when tunneling under water. The men must work in highly pressurized rooms in order to keep the river from collapsing in upon them, and yet the pressure cannot be so great that the air violates the walls of the chamber blowing outward as opposed to being crushed. The book documents a true story of men that were literally pushed through the walls of the tunnel they were digging until ejected in to the river and then being blown out of the water. To live through such an experience has to rank with the most remarkable stories of survival.<br />The book shares two lives that are revealed in parallel as far as narrative, but are intertwined in practice. The lives of both men are occupied at various times by living/working underground, but ultimately one life is spent and finally ends beneath the river, while for the other it is a refuge that ultimately allows him to emerge once again to life above ground leaving his demons buried.<br />The author also explores prejudice in a variety of forms, and from the book's very beginning shows prejudice and racism for the absolute stupidity it is. Men of various color and ethnic backgrounds enter a vicious working environment where they not only work together but are willing to risk their lives for each other. Black, white, Irish, Italian, Polish, none of these characteristics have any meaning when below ground, once returned to the surface every vile behavior associated with race, and religion once again is in full blossom. Church leaders reinforce the worst and most ignorant tenets of institutional stupidity; de facto Jim Crow rules dehumanize its victims.<br />Colum McCann does not shy away from any topic of traditional controversy. He takes the reader through generations of a family begun by a white wife and her black husband, their children who are born in to a world that hates them even more than their all black father, if that is possible.<br />There is one issue I am unclear on and it stems from a quote on the jacket of the book. Frank McCourt writes of McCann's, \\"having been there\\", when he writes about homeless living under the city. My question is whether the author did live there for a time while writing this book, or whether he actually was homeless for a period of time. In either event it took courage to live there as an observer, and if the latter, both courage and a willingness to share a desperately difficult and personal part of his life.rking environment where they not only work together but are willing to risk their lives for each other. Black, white, Irish, Italian, Polish, none of these characteristics have any meaning when below ground, once returned to the surface every vile behavior associated with race, and religion once again is in full blossom. Church leaders reinforce the worst and most ignorant tenets of institutional stupidity; de facto Jim Crow rules dehumanize its victims.<br />Colum McCann does not shy away from any topic of traditional controversy. He takes the reader through generations of a family begun by a white wife and her black husband, their children who are born in to a world that hates them even more than their all black father, if that is possible.<br />There is one issue I am unclear on and it stems from a quote on the jacket of the book. Frank McCourt writes of McCann's, \\"having been there\\", when he writes about homeless living under the city. My question is whether the author did live there for a time while writing this book, or whether he actually was homeless for a period of time. In either event it took courage to live there as an observer, and if the latter, both courage and a willingness to share a desperately difficult and personal part of his life.	2002-08-20
1441568:US	53047425	R11MEANVOERMWQ	0618145311	591387792	River Thieves: A Novel	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Strong Debut for Michael Crummey	Whether real or imagined I seem to be reading more work by writers and stories about Newfoundland. This is the first novel by Michael Crummey and, \\"River Thieves\\", is a very strong debut. The book has been compared to, \\"Cold Mountain\\", that I have not read, and to, \\"In The Fall\\", which I very much enjoyed. This work is not as sweeping a story as Jeffrey Lent's first book, however if you enjoy his writing you will enjoy this tale as well.<br />This story takes place primarily in the very early 19th Century although there are references to years that bracket the story. The atmosphere I take to be absolutely on point, as the author was borne and continues to live in the same settings on which his book takes place. This leap of faith is difficult to make when the reader has never been to the locale of the book, but Michael Crummey makes the presumption effortless.<br />The story is ostensibly about the demise of the, \\"Red Indians\\", or \\"The Beothuk\\". The reasons for the near extinction of these people is the result of the same effects felt throughout the Americas that settlers from Europe either brought with them, or practiced, disease or their desire to take the native population's land. Had the author restricted himself to this review of history, the book would have been too familiar. Instead the author gets deeply involved with a variety of players, and by sharing their stories reveals the fate of the Beothuk as well.<br />Included are settlers, criminals from England that have been transported, as well as the government officials that were the rule of law. The author also departs from attitudes and the people who hold and act on them. Governments have not been traditionally sympathetic to the indigenous people they found on new lands they claimed for King/Queen and country, Crummey changes that. He introduces, \\"Indians\\", which have become a part of the European community with a variety of results. And as he brings his tale to a close, it is not just governmental policy that shapes the fate of people and new nations, but often the people that hold a variety of positions, either governmental or in their communities, that can shape history as well.cy that shapes the fate of people and new nations, but often the people that hold a variety of positions, either governmental or in their communities, that can shape history as well.	2002-08-14
1445222:US	53047425	R2M5VUVSPDS8U9	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	5	5	23	N	N	Change of Time Pace and Method	Opinion always varies on a new book by an author as prominent as Tom Clancy. He has written some of the best work in this genre, and by so doing has set high expectations for his tales. \\"Red Rabbit\\", is likely to generate a wider range of opinions than his previous works. The book is his newest release, but in chronology it goes all the way back to events set after his clash with the IRA and his becoming Sir John. This is also as far away from his traditional offerings that I can remember. The pace is entirely different, and all the high tech action is essentially gone.<br />While there is new information about Jack Ryan who has become so prominent in many of his novels, Ryan as a character does not appear as a focus much more than any other player. Clancy does use Ryan to explore the conflicts of loyalties that his character may face as a Catholic, an American, a CIA employee, and a man that is defined by his ability to think with logic, but also is a man of faith. Clancy has replaced his epic fictional battles with a piece that is closer to historical fiction The primary event is one that all will be familiar with, and it is a credit to the author that it never reads as readily familiar as one would first expect. The attempted assassination of Pope John Paul II and the story that many believe explains it, is quite well known.<br />This is primarily a story about two systems of government with a great deal of the information shared as first person reflections by historical figures like Yuri Andropov. The task Clancy set for himself was significant, how to tell a story that virtually anyone who reads the book already knows how it ends, and has heard of the parties likely responsible. This is like making a movie of the sinking of the Titanic. Much of what takes place after the decision to kill the Pope is approved is secondary. The why of the decision and the mentality of those who felt the threat from the Pope is the story.<br />The decision to kill a head of state is monumental even for a government like the former USSR. Add to the target's importance that he leads a church that has existed for over 2,000 years, and now you have a target that is virtually without parallel. The decision to proceed  with the assassination, when viewed almost two decades later, was monumentally inept. That statement may seem obvious, but it was a blunder of massive proportions even by the standards of the former USSR. A person can argue forever as to how certain the downfall of the USSR was, and who was the pivotal character, or what was the pivotal decision that set the destruction in progress.<br />The person generally offered as the Russian who precipitated the collapse is Gorbachev. He played a role, he was there when the camel's back finally broke. However the collapse, as defined by a definitive event, as opposed to a philosophical one, were the events fueled by Solidarity in Poland, and a Pope that threatened to resign and go home and support his people. This was a man who had dealt with a variety of opponents, including the Nazis without caving in, and his personal safety was not a factor that could be exploited. Alive he was a threat, only the USSR thought his murder would stop all that he represented and supported.<br />Khrushchev caused some consternation when he denounced Stalin at the 20th Party Congress. This same man then was to act as recklessly as any Soviet leader when he played a game of nuclear chicken over Cuba. Even the balance of his Politburo was unnerved by the stupidity of that adventure. His removal from office was unique in that he lived through it. His successor was a man who would remain for many years, many years of plodding along and decaying in office.<br />Clancy has written a very thoughtful book without all the usual hardware. This is about conflicting ideologies and why one was preordained to fail. A state can claim it is godless, that does not make its citizenry devoid of any faith. The same state can act without regard for individual and national rights, it does not mean that its citizens lose all sense of what is right and what is wrong.<br />Clancy adds a great deal to this historical event, and as he has demonstrated before, he has access to information and cooperation from a variety of sources, that other authors do not enjoy. This is not a traditional 5 star Clancy book, not all of his books have merited that type of praise. I believe such praise is warranted here, for as an author he walked away from the formulas that have made his books guaranteed number one bestsellers, and put on paper a more thoughtful work, and left all the hardware behind. The only shots fired are those you expect once you read the jacket, there is no attempt to hide this book's departure, and for 618 pages he maintains interest not through all manner of tension that will be predictably resolved, rather he conducts a study of events that finished whatever rotting was required for the USSR to finally fall.thout regard for individual and national rights, it does not mean that its citizens lose all sense of what is right and what is wrong.<br />Clancy adds a great deal to this historical event, and as he has demonstrated before, he has access to information and cooperation from a variety of sources, that other authors do not enjoy. This is not a traditional 5 star Clancy book, not all of his books have merited that type of praise. I believe such praise is warranted here, for as an author he walked away from the formulas that have made his books guaranteed number one bestsellers, and put on paper a more thoughtful work, and left all the hardware behind. The only shots fired are those you expect once you read the jacket, there is no attempt to hide this book's departure, and for 618 pages he maintains interest not through all manner of tension that will be predictably resolved, rather he conducts a study of events that finished whatever rotting was required for the USSR to finally fall.	2002-08-11
1451171:US	53047425	RUF6FCX19GC41	006001394X	841970994	Five Boys: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not A Novel And Not Short Stories	\\"Five Boys\\", is the second novel from author Mick Jackson. I don't know what the proper term for his work would be for it is not structured like a typical novel, for at times it reads like separate short stories. All of the events in the book involve the same general area once London is left, but after an initial period of time, the book changes from a singular continuing tale embracing some characters, to almost forgetting others, and focusing in depth on very few.<br />A young man is evacuated from London with a group of children for their safety from the bombs of the German Luftwaffe. The problem is that in addition to the normal trauma of being separated from family and friends, he meets a quintet of young boys near his new home that makes the idea of staying in London and chancing the bombs an alternative worth considering. These five little brutes all born within two weeks of each other also share the same capacity for havoc and cruelty that came with the brief time they all entered the world. The progression of their abuse is fairly typical, and then it stops, and with it the traditional narrative sequence stops as well.<br />The author then shares a series of vignettes about a variety of people in and around the village and the effects of having a large pre D-Day contingent of Americans take over a portion of their community for invasion training. This causes a variety of inconveniences which in turn provide for a good deal of comedy. A source of food is behind the checkpoints the Americans have set up and it is decided that it must be retrieved. The cast of characters brought together, and the coffin, a baby carriage, and the effects of the animal eating far too many apples that have become hard cider, make for an interesting chase.<br />These various episodes continue until the arrival of a man known as the beekeeper. His arrival coincides with the book returning to a more traditional progression, and an end that is startling at the very least.<br />\\"The Underground Man\\", was the first novel by this author, and I will probably go back and read it once again. If I remember correctly that book was eccentric because of the character and his actions, while this book is a bit eccentric in its structure. This writer is enjoyable, he is not just another author treading familiar ground, he goes to new places, and takes new paths to reach themnderground Man\\", was the first novel by this author, and I will probably go back and read it once again. If I remember correctly that book was eccentric because of the character and his actions, while this book is a bit eccentric in its structure. This writer is enjoyable, he is not just another author treading familiar ground, he goes to new places, and takes new paths to reach them	2002-08-05
1452866:US	53047425	R1AWY3XNFYH17N	0385478186	587611649	Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Exceptional Writing	Mr. Buckley is an exceptionally talented man; his writing is only one of many disciplines at which he excels. And even within this field he is an accomplished novelist, essayist, speech writer, author of monographs, and the author of a syndicated national newspaper column. This particular work could be legitimately characterized as theology although the author denies that he is so qualified. By his definition this may be true, but his level of expertise on Christianity, and on being a Roman Catholic far surpasses the knowledge the majority of the practitioners of the faith can claim.<br />I came back to this book for a second reading after Mr. Buckley was mentioned several times in the new book by Gary Wills, \\"Why I Am A Catholic\\". Mr. Buckley's working title was the same as that of Mr. Wills, but when his book was published in 1997 it had become, \\"Nearer, My God\\". Mr. Wills and Mr. Buckley had worked together with Mr. Wills having written for the National Review. Their personal preferences in the political sphere were to become incompatible, and the professional relationship ended.<br />\\"Nearer My God\\", is not as critical of the Church although it does raise a variety of questions about Vatican II, and the decline of virtually any form of religious instruction in education, public or private. Mr. Buckley shares the changes that have taken place at the preparatory school he attended, and includes at the end of his book a list of quite prestigious private schools generally founded by Christians, and their present course offerings that are devoid of anything other than religious homogeneity. The effort spent ensuring that any discussion/teaching is as far from any study of specific religions, is either laughable, or offensive depending on the reader's point of view. It brings to mind recent court rulings that took place within days of each other involving the constitutional issue of the separation of church and state. Within days two rulings were handed down, one stating The Pledge Of Allegiance was unconstitutional due to the words, \\"under God\\", and then within days a ruling that school vouchers could be used for religious schools was deemed legal. Genius or even common sense is becoming harder to find residing upon the benches of the judiciary. The decision regarding the pledge was particularly obscene as it was brought in an effort to bolster a child custody case, and not for any legitimate discourse on constitutional law.<br />Mr. Buckley is a devout Catholic, and while he may take issue with the decisions of The Vatican II Council, he does not attack the Church as an institution. The book explores the Catholic Faith in a variety of ways. He shares a brilliant discussion on a variety of points from the theologians Arnold Lunn and Father Knox. He then invited a group of familiar names that had either found, or converted to The Catholic Church as adults, Lance Murrow, Whittaker Chambers, and many more.<br />The discussions range from what either kept them from converting sooner, to which ideas finally made up their minds. There are discussions on all of the hot buttons currently at issue, and while these discussions are not devoid of feeling, they lack any manner of rancor.<br />This book is as lacking in fuel for animosity filled debate, as Mr. Will's work is filled with its opposite. Both books represent an opportunity to learn from extremely bright people who often share the same sources for their discussions. The books differ in the level of criticism and the manner by which it is presented. I have always felt that many readers are put off by Mr. Buckley's work as they feel attempting his work is a daunting task. Mr. Buckley has a brilliant mind and a true love of the written and spoken word. A dictionary at hand when reading his work is often an aid. I don't feel than anyone who has passed on his work would regret a change of mind. He is an original thinker, and will long be remembered for his contributions to literature.ing The Pledge Of Allegiance was unconstitutional due to the words, \\"under God\\", and then within days a ruling that school vouchers could be used for religious schools was deemed legal. Genius or even common sense is becoming harder to find residing upon the benches of the judiciary. The decision regarding the pledge was particularly obscene as it was brought in an effort to bolster a child custody case, and not for any legitimate discourse on constitutional law.<br />Mr. Buckley is a devout Catholic, and while he may take issue with the decisions of The Vatican II Council, he does not attack the Church as an institution. The book explores the Catholic Faith in a variety of ways. He shares a brilliant discussion on a variety of points from the theologians Arnold Lunn and Father Knox. He then invited a group of familiar names that had either found, or converted to The Catholic Church as adults, Lance Murrow, Whittaker Chambers, and many more.<br />The discussions range from what either kept them from converting sooner, to which ideas finally made up their minds. There are discussions on all of the hot buttons currently at issue, and while these discussions are not devoid of feeling, they lack any manner of rancor. <br />This book is as lacking in fuel for animosity filled debate, as Mr. Will's work is filled with its opposite. Both books represent an opportunity to learn from extremely bright people who often share the same sources for their discussions. The books differ in the level of criticism and the manner by which it is presented. I have always felt that many readers are put off by Mr. Buckley's work as they feel attempting his work is a daunting task. Mr. Buckley has a brilliant mind and a true love of the written and spoken word. A dictionary at hand when reading his work is often an aid. I don't feel than anyone who has passed on his work would regret a change of mind. He is an original thinker, and will long be remembered for his contributions to literature.	2002-08-04
1456187:US	53047425	RCHILH3N04EWD	0670031003	783206648	47 Roses	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Not the Typical Irish Tale	\\"44 Dublin Made Me\\", was the first book written Peter Sheridan. Mr. Sheridan is also a noted playwright, and director of such films as, \\"My Left Foot\\" and \\"The Boxer\\". When I commented on his first work I felt it settled itself between the sadness that often accompanies Irish Memoirs with the traditional healthy dose of humor. This second book, \\"47 Roses\\", is not devoid of humor, but the topic that is shared is almost incompatible with humor, and certainly overwhelms the few lighter moments that are described.<br />The number in the title not only describes the flowers that play a role in the book, but much more significantly the number of years a woman from England remained devoted to a man she could never marry. It was not only that the author's father was married that kept them apart, but also, and to a lesser extent, differences that unfortunately remain so prominent between Ireland and England. Intolerance was much stronger in the first half on the 20th Century, so the idea of an English Protestant and an Irish Catholic as husband and wife was dicey, especially for an Irishman whose family history was prominent in the more extreme groups of Ireland. To balance the difficulties, the English side of the family included a former member of The Black And Tans, who will remain notorious for much of Ireland no matter how many years may pass.<br />Anna was the wife in Ireland and Doris was the woman in England. Both of these women had a claim on the affections of this man Peter, and he clearly had feelings that ran very deep for both of them. For 30 years Doris was a part of the author's family, through visits and even watching the children when Anna and Peter vacationed. The ultimatum that finally separated Peter and Doris was to last 17 years until his death, and then it would continue with the son trying to piece together the mystery of this extremely unusual relationship that spanned the Irish Sea.<br />The feelings of both women and their actions are at times hard to fathom. Why would Doris wait for a man for 47 years, going so far as to convert to Catholicism so as to not be separated after they left their life on this world? This same woman who would come to lay flowers at Peter's grave without having seen him for the better part of 2 decades, and upon arriving in Dublin would walk 10 miles at the age of 75 to pay her respects. This same woman who had one child requested that Peter give her away at her wedding and at the same time invited Anna to attend. The questions and suspicions this request raised, the answers offered, presumptions confirmed or denied.<br />This is an interesting story to read, it is also devoid of the clich&eacute;s that would reasonably be expected. The author seems to be in the greatest pain, not because of what may or may not have happened, but due to his feelings about his conduct as he tries to piece together 47 years of family mystery.<br />This is a remarkably personal story, and because it is, often is almost uncomfortable to read. I don't know whether the story could have been related in a different manner, and my perception may be different from others.to fathom. Why would Doris wait for a man for 47 years, going so far as to convert to Catholicism so as to not be separated after they left their life on this world? This same woman who would come to lay flowers at Peter's grave without having seen him for the better part of 2 decades, and upon arriving in Dublin would walk 10 miles at the age of 75 to pay her respects. This same woman who had one child requested that Peter give her away at her wedding and at the same time invited Anna to attend. The questions and suspicions this request raised, the answers offered, presumptions confirmed or denied.<br />This is an interesting story to read, it is also devoid of the clichs that would reasonably be expected. The author seems to be in the greatest pain, not because of what may or may not have happened, but due to his feelings about his conduct as he tries to piece together 47 years of family mystery.<br />This is a remarkably personal story, and because it is, often is almost uncomfortable to read. I don't know whether the story could have been related in a different manner, and my perception may be different from others.	2002-08-01
1466436:US	53047425	RTKUR275IJSBY	0812927907	816297229	Forced Exit: The Slippery Slope from Assisted Suicide to Legalized Murder	Books	1	17	68	N	N	Shrill One Sided and Badly Written	Wesley J. Smith has written a book about an admittedly emotional and divisive issue. The book fails because he lacks any form of objectivity, his writing lacks any sort of balance, and at times becomes so trite, reading becomes painful. \\"Forced Exit\\", fails at the very beginning when the author shares a personal experience of having lost a friend who chose to take her own life. The experience was clearly a galvanizing event for him, and it undercuts his ability to present a case that is worth reading.<br /><br />I would guess that many readers who get past the first handful of pages will truly have a hard time once the author resorts to the ultimate reference, that when used infects what it touches with evil. The body of this book is 252 pages in length. When the author lists 31 pages of his book, or 12.3%, or nearly one in 8 pages under the heading of, Germany, Nazi-euthanasia practices in, the book rightfully becomes of questionable value in the least, and of near zero value in reality. If this man cannot discuss a topic that has held a prominent place in this nation's debates for the better part of 2 decades without calling on the old standby of the Nazis, his argument is exposed as the weak one that it is. Associate your argument with the Nazis and you may win some to your side, but most will run from hyperbolic comparisons, that by their use tend to trivialize who the Nazis were, and what they actually did.<br /><br />Mr. Smith expresses his astonishment at the manner that traditionally held, \\"self evident truths\\", are being undermined. Perhaps Mr. Smith should read the document to which he refers. When the final draft of that famous instrument was written it contained hypocrisy that was practiced and legitimized by courts to the late 19th century. These, \\"wonderful\\", self evident truths are wonderful in theory, and are practiced when convenient, or when humanity finds a spot in government, or a seat on the highest court. Most of the signatories to the document he refers to were signed by hypocrites who advocated the most bestial of social norms, while holding the highest offices in this nation, inclusive of several presidencies.<br /><br />For a moment let us imagine we are dealing with consenting adults. Society requires more standardized knowledge for the operation of an automobile, together with a license, than is required for procreation. The law allows one of the two participating people the option of terminating the results of their coupling. One person makes the decision for at least two, or if you prefer three other lives. Again, operating a car is deemed to require more contemplation.<br /><br />Mr. Smith is against a person making the decision their life is one they no longer choose to live. He is against this because he sees and parades all the weaknesses of human nature. He is nave, alarmist, in short a utopian. Humans have problems, not because they are human, but because some humans will always choose to corrupt any mechanism, any law, any opportunity for themselves at another's expense. I don't think it should be called human nature, but some subset of defective human nature. There are Doctors and there was a Dr. Mengele. Because of the latter we do not rid ourselves of the former.<br />Physician assisted death is not new, what it is, is not spoken of. We would have fewer doctors if it was. Patients also leave hospitals to go home to die; they do not go there empty-handed, without options.<br /><br />Mr. Smith will remain agitated and lack objectivity for as long as he finds fault with the species of which he is a member. The species has flaws, but is not fundamentally and completely, flawed. I will take an imperfect system regarding euthanasia just as I accept dozens of other practices that affect my life, before I will ever agree with those like Dr. Smith who would have the 400+ members of congress tell me when I have had enough. The activities of our elected officials give me pause on far more occasions than the minority of citizens whose votes put them there.s than the minority of citizens whose votes put them there.	2002-07-22
1467025:US	53047425	R3D7F40ABR00A7	0375759999	676495450	Dark Star: A Novel	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Not Identical but Familiar	To date all the novels of Alan Furst have been issued in the US as soft cover books, and they have generally been briefer than I like. There was even a two book cycle that could have been presented as one. \\"Dark Star\\", by comparison is a lengthy novel encompassing well over 400 pages and gives the author a much greater opportunity to demonstrate his talents. Mr. Furst's novels generally are described as taking place from 1933-1945, \\"Dark Star\\", concludes in the fall of 1941.<br />I have now read six of this author's novels, and while I have generally enjoyed his work I do not feel compelled to anxiously await what he will offer in the future. At the end of his books in addition to suggested reading, there are also a series of questions and comments about the author's work. These questions become very familiar as you read several of his books, and the familiarity extends to the writing itself.<br />I enjoyed the tale shared in, \\"Dark Star\\". The previous work I read by this author was, \\"Night Soldiers\\", and while not identical, they are familiar. The author confines his books to a fairly brief, if very rich and complex 12 year time frame of the 20th century. And while this book is not a continuation of, \\"Night Soldiers\\", many references are made to specific characters and events that if you don't know them from his book, the reading experience is diminished.<br />I have commented before on issues of history or definition that are in error in at least one book that I have read. I include the paragraph that follows that I wrote regarding, \\"Night Soldiers\\", for other readers.<br />As with, \\"Night Soldiers\\", I am again at the author's mercy for I have never been to most of the countries he has his characters visit prior to and during the opening of World War II. \\"Dark Star\\" is similar to, \\"Night Soldiers, as he follows the career of a flexible or perhaps progressively disillusioned operative, his recruitment by various agencies and governments and the subsequent changes in his sponsors, and to varying extent his loyalties. He tends to morph much as the map of the Europe he inhabits changed in a very short number of years. The protagonist is a Jew and a Pole by birth, a Russian from his teenage years forward, and a transient of France, Switzerland, The Balkans, Lisbon, and a variety of other stops along the way. He is also a man who is either forced to hide his religious background, or is compelled by it to take lethal risks.<br />This work is more complex, like, \\"Night Soldiers\\" in terms of the number of players the author presents, as well as their experiences and relationships. His work is not spy thriller, explosions one moment, and women the next. The cadence of his books are measured and more relaxed in their pace. I do not believe he is the author that John Le Care is, but if you like Le Care's method and manner of unrolling his longer stories I believe you will enjoy this man's as well. As to the accuracy that is continually touted about his work, I would suggest enjoying the work first, if like me you are unfamiliar with the settings and language. If you do find factual error share it with others, for the faith we place in the writers we invest our time and money in should not be taken for granted by giving us reading that is lacking in the very accuracy that is used to promote their work.n his sponsors, and to varying extent his loyalties. He tends to morph much as the map of the Europe he inhabits changed in a very short number of years. The protagonist is a Jew and a Pole by birth, a Russian from his teenage years forward, and a transient of France, Switzerland, The Balkans, Lisbon, and a variety of other stops along the way. He is also a man who is either forced to hide his religious background, or is compelled by it to take lethal risks.<br />This work is more complex, like, \\"Night Soldiers\\" in terms of the number of players the author presents, as well as their experiences and relationships. His work is not spy thriller, explosions one moment, and women the next. The cadence of his books are measured and more relaxed in their pace. I do not believe he is the author that John Le Care is, but if you like Le Care's method and manner of unrolling his longer stories I believe you will enjoy this man's as well. As to the accuracy that is continually touted about his work, I would suggest enjoying the work first, if like me you are unfamiliar with the settings and language. If you do find factual error share it with others, for the faith we place in the writers we invest our time and money in should not be taken for granted by giving us reading that is lacking in the very accuracy that is used to promote their work.	2002-07-22
1471097:US	53047425	R3BZKCSEBNR32D	0375760008	836911555	Night Soldiers: A Novel	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Full Length	To date all the novels of Alan Furst have been issued in the US as soft cover books, and they have generally been briefer than I like. There was even a two book cycle that could have been presented as one. \\"Night Soldiers\\", by comparison is a lengthy novel encompassing well over 400 pages and gives the author a much greater opportunity to demonstrate his talents. Mr. Furst's novels generally are described as taking place between 1933-1945, \\"Night Soldiers\\", is spread over this entire time frame and a bit more.<br />Much is written about the historical accuracy of the author's work, there is no issue with making such a claim as long as it is valid. Mr. Furst even goes to the point of suggesting historical reading that he uses for his readers to also enjoy, which also reinforces the idea that he is concerned with historical accuracy. Unless the reader has traveled to the cities and countries his books cover, we all must rely on what he tells us as fact. Major historical events can always be checked independently, but the details of day to day living, architecture, and countless other details we must take on faith. In his book, \\"Red Gold\\", he made a variety of errors that would not be noticed by most of his readers, and they were largely missed by me as well. Another reviewer shared his thoughts about the book with me, and my faith in Mr. Furst's accuracy was diminished. I don't speak French but those who do will note how poorly he represents the language in the book I mention. Again, in most issues the faults slide by, and some details would probably not be considered worthwhile by many to even note. However when an author places a historical event in the wrong year, there is no excuse, no defense, and credibility is damaged. This damage extends beyond the author to everyone participating in the chain of production of the book.<br />I enjoyed the tale shared in, \\"Night Soldiers\\". I am again at the author's mercy for I have never been to most of the countries he has his characters visit prior to and through the end of World War II. Nonetheless it is the most complete work I have read by Mr. Furst as he follows the career of a disillusioned young man, his recruitment by the Russians and the subsequent changes in his sponsors and to varying extent his loyalties. He tends to morph much as the map of the Europe he inhabits changed in a very short number of years. Much of the main characters life is destroyed during the war and he too appears to represent the chaos that much of Eastern Europe survived only to be thrown under another brutal regime, the USSR, when the war came to a close.<br />This work is more complex, in terms of the number of players the author presents, as well as their experiences and relationships. His work is not spy thriller, explosions one moment, and women the next. The cadence of his books are measured and more relaxed in their pace. I do not believe he is the author that John Le Care is, but if you like Le Care's method and manner of unrolling his longer stories I believe you will enjoy this man's as well. As to the accuracy that is continually touted about his work, I would suggest enjoying the work first, if like me you are unfamiliar with the settings and language. If you do find factual error share it with others, for the faith we place in the writers we invest our time and money in should not be taken for granted by giving us reading that is lacking in the very accuracy that is used to promote their work.s characters visit prior to and through the end of World War II. Nonetheless it is the most complete work I have read by Mr. Furst as he follows the career of a disillusioned young man, his recruitment by the Russians and the subsequent changes in his sponsors and to varying extent his loyalties. He tends to morph much as the map of the Europe he inhabits changed in a very short number of years. Much of the main characters life is destroyed during the war and he too appears to represent the chaos that much of Eastern Europe survived only to be thrown under another brutal regime, the USSR, when the war came to a close.<br />This work is more complex, in terms of the number of players the author presents, as well as their experiences and relationships. His work is not spy thriller, explosions one moment, and women the next. The cadence of his books are measured and more relaxed in their pace. I do not believe he is the author that John Le Care is, but if you like Le Care's method and manner of unrolling his longer stories I believe you will enjoy this man's as well. As to the accuracy that is continually touted about his work, I would suggest enjoying the work first, if like me you are unfamiliar with the settings and language. If you do find factual error share it with others, for the faith we place in the writers we invest our time and money in should not be taken for granted by giving us reading that is lacking in the very accuracy that is used to promote their work.	2002-07-18
1472608:US	53047425	R26XKEYQ4C8VWF	087113831X	286089143	The Dark Clue: A Novel of Suspense	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Tedious	I don't like gimmicks in general and I find them a bit of a fraud when used to mislead a potential reader about a book. Wilkie Collins is generally considered the inventor of the mystery novel and whether you agree with that or not, he was one of the exceptional writers of Victorian England. \\"The Moonstone\\", and, \\"The Woman In White\\", are just two examples of his work that remain in print in the 21st century. Author James Wilson borrows 2 characters from one of Mr. Collins's novels, and, by insinuation at the very least suggests there is more than that of Mr. Collins to be expected. Borrowing these characters was meaningless to the telling of this story, a bit of vacuous name dropping is all that it amounts to.<br />The tale is the writing of a biography, a book within a book. The subject is the 19th century painter J.M.W. Turner, and the author has used all 7 major biographies of the man to write his novel. I have read none of them, but I cannot imagine any of them being less enjoyable than this book, and I bet they even have pictures! My complaints in general are that the book is too long, the story presumes the reader to be obtuse, the ending is completely unsatisfying, and this book must be amongst the entries for the most obsessive use of commas. The first two sentences have 4 commas, 2 hyphens, and a parenthetical. The cadence of this book is an uncertain staccato.<br />I have read Mr. Wilson's other book which was non-fiction and extremely well written. I don't know if he has the ability to eventually write a great or even a good novel, but he will never get there by trying to imitate the work of another. He makes his attempt exponentially more difficult by trying to mimic the writing of an author who has endured for centuries, and he even borrows a character from the man he seeks to emulate.<br />As the main character in this book sinks in to depravity, the story becomes confused, unsure of what it wants to be, and who is in charge. Many authors say they create their characters and then let them lead. Allowing them to lead, and allowing them to run amok are very different.ate their characters and then let them lead. Allowing them to lead, and allowing them to run amok are very different.	2002-07-17
1475890:US	53047425	R1V766MMOSDU5L	0393048322	519317754	The Fly-Truffler: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Black Diamonds	Truffles can be said to be an obsession if only for the prices that people will pay to have them. Caviar is an inexpensive snack by comparison, I don't know what other product of Mother Nature competes. Part of the mystique that continues to surround this delicacy are the ways by which they are detected, and their elusiveness. In, \\"The Fly Truffler\\", the role of these buried treasures are an obsession, grantor of dreams, and ultimately destructive.<br />A professor loses the love of his life but he is not allowed the normal release that grief, mourning, and time allow. He finds that as he continues the elaborate ritual from detecting the tiniest insect clues, to the digging, and the ritual of bottling the truffle with eggs for days before eating, he dreams, without fail of his lost love. The metaphors that surround his activities are many, not the least of which is his digging of individual truffles from the ground that holds what he has lost, and their ability to offer a bit at a time an intensifying second chance relationship. His former mate appears to him and becomes increasingly aware of his presence and then tempts him with information she must share. The problem is that only the truffle can bridge this gap between his world and hers, and truffles are rare at the best of times and are present for only a portion of the year. A period that is maddeningly short as he is tormented by these nocturnal trysts.<br />An all consuming love can destroy a person's real world when all the participants are still amongst the living and can act as a painful reminder and tempting target for reconciliation or even retribution. In this tale there is no opportunity for either and the author takes apart this man's world with the same efficacy and devastation, even as he is alone. A love for one of nature's offerings becomes his obsession, as he attempts to unnaturally continue another love that nature has taken, what is gone, irrevocably.	2002-07-14
1477319:US	53047425	R2GCRUKOFW747C	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fact Or Possible Coin	China Mieville is one of the very few writers I have come across whose work can not be compared to that of others creating novels. His work may be placed in genres that attempt to define what he and other writers are offering readers, but so far they are just attempts. Neil Stephenson's work in, \\"Snowcrash\\", is brilliant, Neil Gaiman, and Richard Powers also have truly unique and inventive writing styles. I would still say that Mieville creates the most fantastic and unique worlds that have as little in common with more traditional fictionally constructed places in time than other writers. I say this not to diminish the work of others, rather to express how hard Mieville works to create a world that has as few easily recognizable reference points, and by so doing comes as close to creating a truly unique world without leaving readers completely lost. His reading is incredibly detailed and dense without becoming frivolous. He takes you to his imagined events far from where you have ever been, but he never loses the reader, and his creations are plausible in the sense they can be followed. Complex has nothing to do with the poor excuse for talent that requires smoke and mirrors and surreal writing, not because the author is a master of it, rather he needs to hide what is essentially weak writing.<br />I believe readers should enjoy, \\"Perdido Street Station\\", prior to taking on, \\"The Scar\\". Mieville does not write any detail he does not need, and there are enough references in this new book to, \\"Perdido\\", that enhance the reading of, \\"The Scar\\". I also found this new book more complex than the previous adventures in New Crobuzon.<br />When it comes to naming his characters he is the 21st century Dickens, The Brucoloc, Ab-Men, and Vampir, riverthing, Waterman from The Cold Claw Sea, and Hedrigall who speaks in Sunglari-accented Salt, and my favorite Uther Doul. A plan becomes a chain of whispers, a chain of meaning, whose links will lead to the Truth.<br />In, \\"Perdido\\", the concept of choice-theft was introduced, and the author's presentation was brilliant. In, \\"The Scar\\", the concept starts with the blade, the sword that Uther Doul wields. It is known simply as the Mighty Blade to the ignorant or perhaps a blade from the Ghosthead techniques, but it is so much more. Those who know a bit more call it the Mightblade, not in an effort to describe its lethality, rather its potentiality. Uther knows what his blade is; it is a, \\"Possible Sword\\". A coin that falls on either its head or tail or even on edge is a, \\"Fact Coin\\". But what of all the possibilities not accounted for? When they are included there are an infinite number of outcomes, or what the author terms, \\"a possibility circuit\\". A simple sword is directed by he who wields it; the mind makes the decision, a planner. But the Possible Sword turns the planner in to an opportunist, a person who fights from the heart not the mind, a swordsman that can exploit all possibilities with speed approaching the simultaneous. Utilizing multiple dimensions at the same time, if you will, the swordsman is infinitely capable and lethal.<br />This one idea I found fascinating is a very small portion of this work. Uther Doul is one of dozens upon dozens of wildly creative characters. If you have not read this man's work, you have not read anything like it, perhaps something that approaches or approximates his work. But you never have actually experienced his unique talents., the concept of choice-theft was introduced, and the author's presentation was brilliant. In, \\"The Scar\\", the concept starts with the blade, the sword that Uther Doul wields. It is known simply as the Mighty Blade to the ignorant or perhaps a blade from the Ghosthead techniques, but it is so much more. Those who know a bit more call it the Mightblade, not in an effort to describe its lethality, rather its potentiality. Uther knows what his blade is; it is a, \\"Possible Sword\\". A coin that falls on either its head or tail or even on edge is a, \\"Fact Coin\\". But what of all the possibilities not accounted for? When they are included there are an infinite number of outcomes, or what the author terms, \\"a possibility circuit\\". A simple sword is directed by he who wields it; the mind makes the decision, a planner. But the Possible Sword turns the planner in to an opportunist, a person who fights from the heart not the mind, a swordsman that can exploit all possibilities with speed approaching the simultaneous. Utilizing multiple dimensions at the same time, if you will, the swordsman is infinitely capable and lethal.<br />This one idea I found fascinating is a very small portion of this work. Uther Doul is one of dozens upon dozens of wildly creative characters. If you have not read this man's work, you have not read anything like it, perhaps something that approaches or approximates his work. But you never have actually experienced his unique talents.	2002-07-13
1478223:US	53047425	R3NO1050J8N5LA	0618134298	207960543	Why I Am a Catholic	Books	5	64	92	N	N	It Is His Choice	Mr. Wills has written this book not to answer those who charge he either is not, or should not be member of the Catholic Church. Rather he is answering why despite the very real problems he has raised about the Pope and Vatican, he chooses to remain a catholic. To be critical of the Pope, or of church hypocrisy does not qualify a person for excommunication. There was a time Mr. Wills might have been tortured or burned at the stake, but today the power of the Church in Rome is not what it once was and the ability to control information and manipulate facts is difficult to impossible, as it should be.<br />Pope John Paul II can reasonably be said to be preoccupied with, \\"Mary\\". The final Fatima Prophecy that he claims predicted the attempt on his life is so absurd that no amount of twisting of the prophecy is credible, yet John Paul II persists in his belief. The emphasis he places on, \\"The Virgin Of Fatima\\", is bizarre. The Pope has a commission that he organized and he has directed to study that she, \\"Mary\\", is co-redeemer of the human race. Evidently he does not feel that Jesus Christ as the one and only redeemer, is fair to his obsession.<br />It is not possible to comment on all issues raised, but there are a number that serve as indicators of how far the Papacy has separated itself from, The Church, the congregants that are the church, not the elite few that wander the Vatican's bureaucracy. Nor are powerful Cardinals like Cardinal  Joseph Ratzinger who specializes in revisionist history, or Cardinal Alfredo Ottaviani, the spin doctor and manipulator of Vatican II, the true church.<br />Bishops are not chosen based upon intellect or merit, rather they must past three tests regarding contraception, ordination of married men, and be free of even having discussed the ordination of women. The result as Mr. Wills states, \\"is an intellectual desert created by John Paul and called peace\\".<br />Back-door infallibility has been raised to an art form as utilized by Pope John Paul and Cardinal Ratzinger. Church decisions are described as definitive, irreformable, or already infallible. Ratzinger's deputy Tarcisio Bertoni stated in 1996 with supreme arrogance, \\"such papal teachings are infallible, even though not defined as such\\". Quite a spin, perhaps his calling was actually from Washington D.C.<br />One area I found extremely interesting in this exceptional work was the chapter entitled, \\"Fighting Vatican II\\". It is broken down in to these headings Collegiality, Ecclesiology, Exegesis, Liturgy, Intellectual Freedom, and Ecumenism. Interesting may be the wrong word, for what was attempted with varying degrees of success was appalling.<br />Ever wondered why The United States had no Catholic President until John F. Kennedy, I had. The Vatican had maintained a series of teachings that guarantied no Catholic would step foot in the oval office as its occupant. The Vatican maintained a sweeping policy of intolerance toward any view it had not decreed like, \\"the errors of Protestants and others has no rights, that the American Constitution is a second best hypothesis to be corrected toward the thesis of church establishment\\". What was the church to do? No problem, they simply un-muzzled a Jesuit writer, John Courtney Murray whose writings they had forbidden to be published. Murray had been critical of a host of positions maintained by the Vatican, so he became a convenient outlet for releasing timely clarifications to assure voters that Kennedy would not overthrow the constitution. Murray became Time Magazine's man of the year, and John Kennedy became president. Who says the Vatican lacks flexibility?<br />Forgery is documented tradition in Rome. A visit to the Vatican will show massive commissions of art that are nothing more than Papal fantasy. If the church wanted authority it had no claim to, it simply created forged documents, wrote lies. There was the Stakhanovite forging for papal privileges for Symmachus in the 6th century. The ninth century brought the forgeries to benefit bishops by Isidore Seville. They are now known as the \\"False Decretals\\". These are a tiny representation of manufactured church documents, but none can begin to compete with the grandest fraud, hypocrisy, swindle, you choose the word, for, \\"The Donation of Constantine,\\". Mr. Wills breaks the forgery into 5 main sections, it is to be admired for its brashness, audacity, and its fiction. It also serves as a pillar for the habitual deceptions of Rome.<br />Mr. Wills has nothing to apologize for, and those that would like to see him leave the church are either obedient to the Vatican without condition, or have irrational fear for what the truth may change. The reality is that 70% of Catholics now live in third world countries where Catholicism is modified by local beliefs and customs. Institutions that trained priests and nuns continue to empty, and the Pope's record of creating more saints than all his predecessors combined may serve political purposes but it does not replace living servants of the church. Creating saints of one person who championed The Protocols of The Elders of Zion is disturbing, canonizing a person who never existed is impossible to justify.<br />The conduct of the church at many levels regarding the hundreds of priests, bishops, etc. who are pederasts is indefensible. Cardinals who admit to shuffling known offenders about refuse to step down, and John Paul says and does nothing. So now donations to the church can be added to the list of necessities the church is losing. Congregants understandably do not want to give their money that may eventually settle another case of child abuse at the hands of a priest, money the church uses to pay the victims of a most reprehensible crime perpetrated by men who no child should fear. The action and inaction of John Paul and his minions on this issue must rank with the most offensive, amoral conduct of  power that ever has issued from Rome.nth century brought the forgeries to benefit bishops by Isidore Seville. They are now known as the \\"False Decretals\\". These are a tiny representation of manufactured church documents, but none can begin to compete with the grandest fraud, hypocrisy, swindle, you choose the word, for, \\"The Donation of Constantine,\\". Mr. Wills breaks the forgery into 5 main sections, it is to be admired for its brashness, audacity, and its fiction. It also serves as a pillar for the habitual deceptions of Rome.<br />Mr. Wills has nothing to apologize for, and those that would like to see him leave the church are either obedient to the Vatican without condition, or have irrational fear for what the truth may change. The reality is that 70% of Catholics now live in third world countries where Catholicism is modified by local beliefs and customs. Institutions that trained priests and nuns continue to empty, and the Pope's record of creating more saints than all his predecessors combined may serve political purposes but it does not replace living servants of the church. Creating saints of one person who championed The Protocols of The Elders of Zion is disturbing, canonizing a person who never existed is impossible to justify.<br />The conduct of the church at many levels regarding the hundreds of priests, bishops, etc. who are pederasts is indefensible. Cardinals who admit to shuffling known offenders about refuse to step down, and John Paul says and does nothing. So now donations to the church can be added to the list of necessities the church is losing. Congregants understandably do not want to give their money that may eventually settle another case of child abuse at the hands of a priest, money the church uses to pay the victims of a most reprehensible crime perpetrated by men who no child should fear. The action and inaction of John Paul and his minions on this issue must rank with the most offensive, amoral conduct of  power that ever has issued from Rome.	2002-07-12
1478471:US	53047425	R2FVPU2A64SP4Q	0060199733	242010890	Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Reminds Me Of Another Prime Minister	Margaret Thatcher's place in history is already firmly established. She earned her place in history's pantheon of great leaders in large part through her unprecedented 3 consecutive electoral victories and the years in office they allowed her to serve, and she continues to closely follow and study global politics as a respected former stateswoman. She is as competent to write on world politics as any leader currently in office, and more qualified than many, whether they currently serve or have served in the past.<br />Lady Thatcher does not mince words, spin ideas, nor does she change her beliefs to suit the mood of the day. In this book she takes many positions that are not fashionable, politically correct, and will not be welcomed by many in or out of office. She presents her case on dozens of issues and offers summaries of what she believes should be done. I would very much enjoy a rebuttal as competent as her presentation; I doubt very much that I would be swayed. I had the privilege of attending one of her speeches, and if you find her persuasive via her writing, she is extraordinary in person.<br />That are many topics that deserve close focus, but I enjoyed her extended discussion of what she terms, \\"euro-land\\". I may be wrong, but I feel she equates the usefulness and future of The European Union to be as fictional as another land, that of Disney. Disney deals in fantasy, governments should not. The union is also referred to as a form of United States Of Europe; this fiction is dismembered by Lady Thatcher in great detail, and with arguments of more substance than those who advocate the union. She believes that it is inevitable that the program will fail, and that history will record it as one of the greatest follies attempted in history.<br />Globalism and the concepts of global citizenship are dead on arrival by any rational measure. The European Union is doomed for the same reasons. The world is not populated by homogenous people, language, laws, customs, beliefs, morals, systems of government, or common national interests. And this list is just a small sample. Members who issue the Euro give up a fundamental element of their sovereignty, their right to issue legal tender and manage their economies. The citizens are subject to the laws of their nation, and again this is compromised when a supra-authority like euro-land government develops. Defenders cite the tradition of international law, the miserable record of international law and courts preempts any such defense.<br />Lady Thatcher also points out the aspirations to produce a military force from the members of the union. Most of these aspirations, which are no more than still born fantasies, are often put forward by two of the members, Germany and France. It's amazing how short memories are. I am not suggesting that Germany has any desire to go to war once again, but it is historical fact that as a nation (now fully reunited) they have not worked and played well with their neighbors. France has routinely been run over or has run away from a German advance. Perhaps France is attempting to make friends with the bully that has historically damaged them so badly. They have a history of collaboration with their nation's enemies; they even round up their own citizens and deport them when told to do so by an occupier. Germany will dominate any union; France will be used as is convenient. The arrogance that is often a hallmark of France is almost laughable to read when they state their intention of creating a union to rival The United States not only economically, but to be independent militarily. As the book provides the facts about military strength and spending at present, and the ability of members to spend, the idea of a military group independent of NATO is simply absurd.<br />Lady Thatcher virtually walks the reader around the globe on the dozens of trips she has made since leaving office. Her observations are not drawn from reflection in her home, but from first hand experience. How many present or former leaders have stood at mass graves in the former Yugoslavia as bodies were being exhumed? She has, and these first hand on-site experiences give her the authoritative knowledge to comment and suggest. She also maintains relationships with nearly all of the heads of state she interacted with as Prime Minister and many that took office after she departed.<br />The book is dedicated to President Ronald Reagan, \\"To whom the world owes so much\\". The special relationship she had with President Reagan, and the good fortune the world had from these two people in occupying office together for many years, has literally written some of the greatest events of the 20th Century.<br />I said that she reminded me of another Prime Minister of England. My reasons for saying this grow from her candor, her absolute core beliefs, and her willingness to state what the truth is when it is so unpopular to do so. She rightfully has no time for the nonsense that is political correctness. And even though when he was asked about the likelihood of a woman as Prime Minister he thought the idea was so absurd he barely answered, I believe that were he alive, Prime Minister Churchill would have been a supporter and admirer of Prime Minister Thatcher.t hand experience. How many present or former leaders have stood at mass graves in the former Yugoslavia as bodies were being exhumed? She has, and these first hand on-site experiences give her the authoritative knowledge to comment and suggest. She also maintains relationships with nearly all of the heads of state she interacted with as Prime Minister and many that took office after she departed.<br />The book is dedicated to President Ronald Reagan, \\"To whom the world owes so much\\". The special relationship she had with President Reagan, and the good fortune the world had from these two people in occupying office together for many years, has literally written some of the greatest events of the 20th Century.<br />I said that she reminded me of another Prime Minister of England. My reasons for saying this grow from her candor, her absolute core beliefs, and her willingness to state what the truth is when it is so unpopular to do so. She rightfully has no time for the nonsense that is political correctness. And even though when he was asked about the likelihood of a woman as Prime Minister he thought the idea was so absurd he barely answered, I believe that were he alive, Prime Minister Churchill would have been a supporter and admirer of Prime Minister Thatcher.	2002-07-12
1481578:US	53047425	RRRG021O3KR4K	0471218235	694451796	Gutenberg: How One Man Remade the World with Words	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Primarily Historical Secondarily Biographical	I have had the privilege of seeing pages of a Gutenburg Bible. There is only one complete Bible that remains in a private collection, and the balance are part of the inventories of museums or places like The Library of Congress. An exceptional example can be found at The Morgan Library in NYC, and thanks to a special group of people the work can also be viewed on the internet. To give an idea of the value of one of these Bibles, the last single page I saw at an antiquarian book show was priced at $30,000. If an entire book were to come to auction the price it would bring would be measured in many millions of dollars. William Gates, CEO of Microsoft, paid in excess of $35,000,000 for the Leicester Codex, a one of a kind notebook from the pen of Leonardo Da'Vinci. That is the record ever paid for a single, \\"book\\".<br />As momentous a contribution that Gutenburg gave the world details about his life are few. Even when he had established himself as a printer of some renown, there are many years, and even groups of years that are blank, or filled by only supposition. There are times that the recording of a lawsuit is all that are available to document where he was at a given point in time. And as with many inventions that have changed the course of history, there are the usual arguments over who actually invented what, and then there are the pretenders that history had accepted for centuries.<br />Those expecting a biography of the inventor will not be satisfied by this book. This is less the fault of the writer than the lack of documentary evidence about the subject. What the reader is given in great detail is a description of history before during and after the printing press became a reality. The Bible that is so routinely associated with the name of Gutenburg has certain volumes that are not only exceptional for the type but also for the decoration that was produced. The fragment of the picture on the cover only hints at the beauty of these books.<br />And this is the greatest criticism I have of this book. The work of Gutenburg was visual, and in many examples exceptionally beautiful. I cannot reconcile these facts with a book that offers a single black and white photograph of one page of this historic Bible. The invention of the press that Gutenburg created is exceptional, and exceptionally complicated. All the reader is offered is a brief description on how complicated it is, and two pages with a handful of drawings that raise more questions than they answer. The author should have let readers decide how much effort they wished to invest to understand this invention rather than presuming readers would be pleased with the barest of details.<br />If you have never read anything about this topic, the book will serve you better than if you already have knowledge in excess of the name of the man and what he created. The author also makes note of the idea that someday all books could be in electronic form and stored in, \\"hyperspace\\". I hope he meant cyberspace.e greatest criticism I have of this book. The work of Gutenburg was visual, and in many examples exceptionally beautiful. I cannot reconcile these facts with a book that offers a single black and white photograph of one page of this historic Bible. The invention of the press that Gutenburg created is exceptional, and exceptionally complicated. All the reader is offered is a brief description on how complicated it is, and two pages with a handful of drawings that raise more questions than they answer. The author should have let readers decide how much effort they wished to invest to understand this invention rather than presuming readers would be pleased with the barest of details.<br />If you have never read anything about this topic, the book will serve you better than if you already have knowledge in excess of the name of the man and what he created. The author also makes note of the idea that someday all books could be in electronic form and stored in, \\"hyperspace\\". I hope he meant cyberspace.	2002-07-09
1487036:US	53047425	R2K6IVB54ONFAF	0786866772	653324315	The Lobster Chronicles: Life on a Very Small Island	Books	5	48	55	N	N	Remarkable Person	Firstly, I use the word person for the author does not like to be labeled with some feminine or neuter version of fisherman, and secondly because anyone who has a list of accomplishments that Linda Greenlaw has is remarkable, period. She excelled as an athlete, a student, eventually completing her studies at Colby College, and then becoming the captain of a swordboat, a captain that equaled her male peers, and by many who would know, exceeded them all. Her 17-year career as a fisherman had all the hardships that anyone choosing the life would encounter, compounded by the fact she was a woman. Trouble actually started the day she told her mother that she was off to the sea after she had earned her diploma. Her mother proceeded to take out her anger on the contents of the kitchen cabinets, and very little that was breakable remained whole.<br />Throughout her career as an offshore captain she not only brought home the swordfish that were unfortunate enough to cross her path, she brought home her boat and her men. She did this year after year in the most dangerous career there is, commercial fishing. The movie from the book of the same title, \\"The Perfect Storm\\", introduced millions to the loss of the Andrea Gale, her crew, and also the boat captained by Linda Greenlaw. She wrote a book about what life was like at sea for a month or more at a time hunting her prey. The book was called, \\"The Hungry Ocean\\", and it made Linda Greenlaw in to a best selling author. Her work remained for 6 months on the NYT Bestseller List. Not bad for a first time author.<br />\\"The Lobster Chronicles\\", will likely follow her first success, for it is as interesting, and it shows just how well this, lady, (excuse me captain), can write. She is candid, very funny, self-deprecating, and has the oh so elusive perceptive eye of a true writer. The end of the book hints that another shift in her career may take place. I hope that it does not preclude her from pursuing the novel she has talked of writing.<br />The only plan she has yet to accomplish is that of becoming a wife and mother that she speaks of with such candor and yearning. She is also humorously practical when she shares that of the 47 full-time residents that live on the island she calls home, there are only 3 single men. One man is her cousin and the two others are gay. Not exactly a target rich environment for her family planning goals. Her sister called her first book, \\"a novel length personal ad\\". The author talks of small town Maine family trees as, \\"being painted in the abstract\\", and that her family's tree has been referred to as, \\"more of a wreath\\".<br />She lives on the island she grew up on, a 6 mile by 3 mile rock 7 miles off the coast of Maine. She explains that if any readers think they may become enamored of island life that they try a list of islands she suggests, for they have all that tourists need, her island, \\"has nothing\\". Forget a bank, there is no ATM.<br />Lobsters are familiar to those of us who have grown up in New England, but like many familiarities knowledge does not always appear to the same degree. Lobster fishing is much more demanding, and lethal than I ever imagined, and if you think the high prices paid for this member of the family that includes spiders makes these people wealthy, the facts will open your eyes. The history of lobster has not always been the table delicacy of today. Serving it in prisons more than twice a week was once outlawed. The present state of lobstering and its future are also discussed, and again there is a great deal that was of more interest than I expected.<br />The book is much more than a tale of lobsters and her search for a husband. As tiny as her island home is, 47 people still provide all the drama, and every human behavior you will find in a population 100 times its size. It seems that almost all of the permanent residents are at least interesting, and range to colorful and eccentric. After you gain a bit of familiarity with theisland you will see that it would be the choice of a select groups of folks. Climate, the lack of almost everything, and the other aspects she shares require a certain personality.<br />The books closes on a troubling note for a person very dear to her is about to learn whether months of misery will allow her to become a survivor of an all too familiar disease. And we also learn her best friend is building a brand new swordboat. Intended or not we are left hanging.<br />This is a great book by a very talented individual who has set and accomplished pretty much all she has set out to do. The husband issue is still unfinished, but with appearances on national talk shows, and a book-signing tour, I am sure there will be more than one man willing to try and keep up with this remarkable woman.<br />Good luck with all you do, and no matter what, keep writing!island you will see that it would be the choice of a select groups of folks. Climate, the lack of almost everything, and the other aspects she shares require a certain personality.<br />The books closes on a troubling note for a person very dear to her is about to learn whether months of misery will allow her to become a survivor of an all too familiar disease. And we also learn her best friend is building a brand new swordboat. Intended or not we are left hanging.<br />This is a great book by a very talented individual who has set and accomplished pretty much all she has set out to do. The husband issue is still unfinished, but with appearances on national talk shows, and a book-signing tour, I am sure there will be more than one man willing to try and keep up with this remarkable woman.<br />Good luck with all you do, and no matter what, keep writing!	2002-07-05
1491300:US	53047425	RNBJYVUCEN9S8	0399148604	848765251	Wings of Fire	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Great Deal Fans Will Enjoy	Dale Brown has put everything in to this tale, be they familiar characters, or the weapon systems that always play a role in his books. If this is the first book by this author that you choose to read there are going to be a variety of references that will not be clear. These can either be noted as a negative, or as I think, a catalyst for going back to the very beginning and enjoying all the books. This is novel number 14, and with the exception of one I have enjoyed them all.<br />Before commenting on this tale I need to make a general comment. The descriptions that have been offered about the storyline in this book do not match what actually happens during the tale. Some of the suggested elements of the plot are exaggerated, and others just do not take place. I may have not placed the same emphasis on certain events that the book's description highlights, and I look forward to what other reviewers have to say. In any event, if I had not read any description of the book it still is another great read from Dale Brown.<br />The familiar group of mavericks have become independent to the point of being mercenaries. This freedom to operate as they choose is satisfying from a reader's standpoint, but for these former military members the moniker of mercenary does not sit with much comfort. Events rapidly blur the line between their interests and that of governments friendly to their actions, and their reasons for operating become more comfortably defined.<br />The new toy this time out is another incarnation of The Megafortress with the moniker AL-52 Dragon. A close look at the book's cover will give you an idea of what this latest weapon is. The book opens with the testing of this weapon in the classic Mclanahan style. Testing against mock-ups and target ranges are not his way, so when he takes this plane out for a spin, international incidents start multiplying.<br />From this point on anything more descriptive would ruin the reading for others. Suffice to say that there is as much going on in the main plot, and a variety of subplots, that this is as dense a read as Mr. Brown has offered. Every trick that Masters and Mclanahan and their usual teammates have developed, is on display. And if that was not enough a new character is introduced that I think readers will either love or loathe. Think of Jon Masters as a tyke, that's all I'll say.<br />The reason for holding back the 5th star is because of the inconsistencies. I may have missed some subtle point, but I did not miss that a character that is alive at the beginning is alive at the end. And this contradicts what readers are told to expect.<br />In any event the book is a great read, and Dale Brown fans will feel they have been given their money's worth.ere is as much going on in the main plot, and a variety of subplots, that this is as dense a read as Mr. Brown has offered. Every trick that Masters and Mclanahan and their usual teammates have developed, is on display. And if that was not enough a new character is introduced that I think readers will either love or loathe. Think of Jon Masters as a tyke, that's all I'll say.<br />The reason for holding back the 5th star is because of the inconsistencies. I may have missed some subtle point, but I did not miss that a character that is alive at the beginning is alive at the end. And this contradicts what readers are told to expect.<br />In any event the book is a great read, and Dale Brown fans will feel they have been given their money's worth.	2002-07-01
1497172:US	53047425	ROIV8Q8MY7TVW	0684808498	534075582	The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire	Books	4	30	35	N	N	Interest Is Not Where You Might Expect	The first generation you will read about was never allowed to reach its conclusion, due to an unfortunate early death. The second and third generations of this grandfather, father, and son trio are much longer. The second generation too has recently come to a close after a very long and successful life, in excess of 93 years, and the verdict on the third is still evolving. There is no question where the business acumen was at its greatest, the talent rested with Mr. Fred Trump, the second of the three men, and his story is the one of substance. The grandfather never had a chance to play out what likely would have been a very successful life, but during the time he was a businessman he was creative, bold, and gutsy as any pioneer.<br />Donald Trump is certainly the most well known, for marketing himself is a large part of whom he is and what he does. He is a man who can only speak in superlatives about anything he is involved in, even if some grand and prominent project bears his name and little else. The name on a building has very little to do with who owns it, who paid for it, or who made it happen. Donald Trump's primary business is Donald Trump. His flair for promotion and obsession with how he is perceived has become his career. There is no question he has had his successful projects, but the question of would they ever have happened without his father is a legitimate one. And he probably would have had much more success and a much larger fortune had he stuck to the business he knew, developing real estate. He got sidetracked with buying an airline, paying absurd prices for casinos that still are far from trophy properties, and while he may have benefited, the holders of stock and various bond issues have not.<br />Fred Trump is the man you would have given your money to and slept soundly at night. He was an astute man of business, he was self-made, and he spent no time promoting who he was. In this manner he was like many other long time major developers in the NYC area that developed massive amounts of real estate and fortunes to match without having any interest in the world knowing what they were worth.<br />Forbes Magazine often documents the calls they receive from Donald Trump complaining about where he is listed on their richest people list. This is not something his father or grandfather ever would have contemplated, nor would they brag to anyone listening how they increased their net worth by failing to honor financial commitments. In the end his charismatic style allowed him to get financial institutions so grossly over invested in his view of the world that he could never be allowed to go bankrupt, as the lenders could not afford it.<br />His predecessors in the family rate much higher on substance, and the newest Mr. Trump rates highly on style. But for all of the perceived satisfaction he would have the public believes he enjoys, in the end the author portrays a man that craves publicity to the detriment of his personal life. Squiring around beautiful women makes for nice pictures, but he and it and getting a bit old.e NYC area that developed massive amounts of real estate and fortunes to match without having any interest in the world knowing what they were worth.<br />Forbes Magazine often documents the calls they receive from Donald Trump complaining about where he is listed on their richest people list. This is not something his father or grandfather ever would have contemplated, nor would they brag to anyone listening how they increased their net worth by failing to honor financial commitments. In the end his charismatic style allowed him to get financial institutions so grossly over invested in his view of the world that he could never be allowed to go bankrupt, as the lenders could not afford it.<br />His predecessors in the family rate much higher on substance, and the newest Mr. Trump rates highly on style. But for all of the perceived satisfaction he would have the public believes he enjoys, in the end the author portrays a man that craves publicity to the detriment of his personal life. Squiring around beautiful women makes for nice pictures, but he and it and getting a bit old.	2002-06-26
1497951:US	53047425	R2OKAQO07FXLP9	0684872870	244559708	Tuxedo Park : A Wall Street Tycoon and the Secret Palace of Science That Changed the Course of World War II	Books	5	101	107	N	N	Thank You Jennet Conant	With her biography of Alfred Lee Loomis through her book, \\"Tuxedo Park\\", Jennet Conant has given those interested the best view yet of this extraordinary man. I have read many books regarding Wall Street when Mr. Loomis was a player, and many other books on the exchange of information between Great Britain and The United States during World War II, specifically on radar and atomic weapons. The name Loomis is a vague one at best, happily Ms. Conant has remedied this gap in the historical record and delivers a great deal of knowledge about the man and his talents.<br />Exceptional would be an appropriate word to describe this man. A major financier on Wall Street, he not only was unhurt by the crash of 1929 he benefited from it. While enjoying after dinner conversation he could also play multiple games of chess with his back to the boards, carrying on both the conversation and the multiple games in his mind's eye alone. Clearly a man with a formidable intellect, it is not altogether shocking that after making a huge fortune on Wall Street, he walked away from it and the boards he served on to pursue other interests, interests that would have a major impact on the outcome of the Second World War.<br />A capitalist to his core, when the need arose for development of important scientific research he routinely would take the money from his own pocket. Over the years this amounted to huge sums of money, and much was spent long before there was the urgency of war. He encouraged and financed the best minds in physics, literally feeding and housing them in a house turned private laboratory in one of the country's wealthiest enclaves Tuxedo Park. Write down any name from Einstein to Fermi to a host of Nobel winners and they all spent time at his homes on many occasions.<br />And this man was just not a wanna-be with deep pockets. Whether it was innovations with radar, cyclotrons, or getting the armed forces to sit up and pay attention to devices they were in desperate need of, or gathering the money and talent to do whatever was required, he was the facilitator, and he literally made it happen. He also understood the science he was assisting.<br />Without his organizing the manpower and the facilities to produce devices that were recently just science fiction, the tools that were so critical to winning the war would have taken years to develop if left to the federal government. The armed forces were of little help as they were inherently protective of their own turf and distrustful of the other branches and especially of the, \\"long hair\\", physicists. He also bridged the gap of distrust when the British wanted to share innovations The United States was nowhere near to developing. Fortunately diplomacy was almost as offensive to him as a federally run science project, so when the diplomats were arguing he would go off in to a corner and start swapping information.<br />There were two events described in the book that are priceless. They not only illustrate all that is wrong with bureaucracy but also protecting one's turf when the turf is the same country. These events also proved why privately run efforts would beat Washington every day of the week. The military routinely dismissed the ideas and instruments that were suggested and then built. Mr. Loomis and his people knew better and they would go ahead and build a dozen prototypes, demonstrate them to the top brass, and watch the feeding frenzy begin. After watching these people who hours before had no time to waste on these ideas much less the actual product, Mr. Loomis would politely interject that all the arguing was unnecessary, as the devices were owned by him. The looks on the faces must have been worth any frustration leading up to the moment. All the infighting stopped as the bureaucrats and generals realized they were fighting over what was not theirs. The bickering stopped, and the results of the incredible researchers and Loomis were happily accepted, and orders for countless more were placed.<br />The book is a very well written account  a man who did not want history's attention, and until this book largely avoided it. He is gone now but the implements created by his money, his determination, patriotism, and the huge groups he assembled, are still in use today. They have advanced exponentially in their capabilities, but many started or were nurtured in Tuxedo Park. This country owes a major debt to this visionary.ore were placed.<br />The book is a very well written account  a man who did not want history's attention, and until this book largely avoided it. He is gone now but the implements created by his money, his determination, patriotism, and the huge groups he assembled, are still in use today. They have advanced exponentially in their capabilities, but many started or were nurtured in Tuxedo Park. This country owes a major debt to this visionary.	2002-06-25
1500860:US	53047425	R2Q905YP8YRN66	0345426266	955062554	The Analyst	Books	4	6	6	N	N	One Extreme Or The Other	This is the second work by Mr. Katzenbach that I have read. The first was, \\"Hart's War\\", which was a very good book that was turned in to a very bad movie. \\"The Analyst\\", appears to have provoked strong feelings both pro and con, which surprises me a bit.<br />All books have their champions and their detractors but I don't know what turned some people off so badly that they did not even finish the book. The book is not entirely original but for those who complete the read it amounts to almost two books, and both are done quite well. The Dr. is targeted by an incredibly well planned and meticulously researched game of likely retribution. The game is designed to punish him or any one of 52 relatives if he cannot identify his tormentor in 15 days. There are no limitations on the severity of punishment nor the maximum or minimum ages of the targets.<br />There are times when the book gets a bit ponderous with the head games the doctor utilizes to help his patients versus the games that are being played upon him. Much of it is quite clever, but there is always a point when there can be too much of a good thing. The book does not really have one ending, as I have said it is almost two books or installments. This format allows for multiple outcomes and a mind numbing number of paranoid meetings and coincidental events. The author adds an extra layer of intrigue by utilizing a number of names from classical literature and mythology, although he explains immediately what they represent, which lessens the mystery they could have added.<br />My only other hope is that they do not destroy this book with a film version as well.	2002-06-23
1508539:US	53047425	R2199JKZHVZ8UJ	0399148108	89043645	Everybody Pays	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Remarkable Story Of Corruption And A Hero	Hero is a term that should be applied with great care. I don't think there is any question that Bob Lowe deserves all the accolades the word entails. For a moment, imagine walking down the street you live on with your wife and children, you are 25 years old, it is dark, and you have a dog for company. A car stops several feet in front of you, a shotgun is pointed out the window, and your neighbor is literally lifted off the ground and finally thrown down upon it as he is hit twice. The attack is particularly obscene for the killer uses shells loaded with, \\"Deer Slugs\\". This type of load will knock down a mature Deer; imagine what one will do to a person much less two.<br />The person Bob Lowe then came face to face with was a professional killer who took lives dozens of times. If it is possible, he was even more despicable for the manner by which he killed. A sawed off shotgun with Deer Slugs is practically a small artillery piece when used on a human. The assassin who murdered that night, Harry Aleman, murdered with no fear of consequence whether a witness was present or not, for in Chicago's history professional hit men did not go to jail. And before you decide you have heard Chicago stories before, this was not Capone's Chicago. Harry Aleman killed this night in 1972, and it would not be until 1997 that he would be found guilty of the crime.<br />Harry Aleman had every reason to be confident that if he stood trial he would be acquitted. Despite overwhelming evidence of his guilt, when taken to trial he sat confidently waiting for the outcome he expected, and walked away a free man.<br />No one advised Bob Lowe to testify, his family actively worked to keep him quiet. After all, why should he bother, this was a professional hit, and what possible motivation did he have for testifying against a professional killer? Unfortunately for Aleman Bob Lowe was unusual, he did what few had done, he did what everyone should do, he told the police what he witnessed. Few would have blamed him for keeping himself and his family safe from a professional contract killer, he chose not to, and it would be easy to argue that what he did was not worth the 25 years of hell he and his family went through.<br />Maurice Possley and Rick Kogan are top-flight reporters with awards and nominations that only enhance their credentials for presenting this story. If Mr. Possley's name sounds familiar it may be that you recall his role in breaking and publishing the story of John Wayne Gacy, killer of 33 people. Both men have earned their reputations while contributing to the Chicago Tribune.<br />I always enjoy books written by talented reporters. They communicate a story with all its detail without using one more word than they need. And when the writers are this good, there is absolutely nothing missing, you arrive at the end of the book with the feeling you know the whole story. And you are correct to feel as you do, for writers like these routinely communicate within confines and deadlines, so when they write a book it is as tight and crisp as their profession requires. This book has a wonderful cadence that will cost you the better part of a night's sleep unless you start very early in the day.<br />This book documents much more than murder and corruption this book documents history. Harry Aleman never expected that he would be put on trial twice for the same crime, and why should he? We are all guaranteed that we cannot be tried twice for the same crime under the protection of the rules of, \\"Double Jeopardy\\". It took 25 years longer than it should have, and went a great deal of the way toward destroying a family, but when you play games like the Harry Alemans of the world do, constitutional law will not protect you, it was never meant to protect creatures who operate as he and his cronies did.<br />And that is yet another reason to read this book. All the usual reasons for praising great writing are present in this work. Additionally it has a real hero, and a justice system that as twisted beyond recognition as it was, eventually andero, and a justice system that as twisted beyond recognition as it was, eventually and	2002-06-15
1514128:US	53047425	R2JGF579EFIID7	157322202X	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The Author Makes Presumptions	All writers make certain decisions about the potential readers of their work. \\"The Dream Of Scipio\\", is unlike any other work that Iain Pears has offered his readers. He places this work only alongside, \\"An Instance At The Fingerpost\\". His others 7 novels are omitted from the list of books he has written, which is an interesting insight as to how the author views his work. He evidently feels he writes for two distinct groups. I would not have agreed with the two lists until I read his latest work. The questions to ask prior to reading this book is how much do you know about many of history's great philosophers, and how much do you enjoy reading philosophy? Religion in the form of Christianity, Judaism, perceived heretics, Mary Magdalen, and St. Sophia all play a role as well. Aristotle, Salon, Cicero, Catullus, Vergil, Horace, and Ovid to add a few more names to the list.<br />As in his previous work we are given three viewpoints although this time they are not from different views of a single event, but three periods of time when there is a great crisis at hand. There is some mingling as the most recent time period of World War II is represented by Julien Barneuve, a frustrated historian trying to sort out what he believes are errors in the historical record surrounding, \\"The Dream Of Scipio\\". His problems are far more severe for while he tries to gain answers to the most fundamental of life's questions, he decides to work for the Vichy Government. By just agreeing to work for them he becomes as loathsome as history has judged this government.<br />Three women also take center stage in these time periods and their choice of identity will give you an indication of how complex these stories become. During World War II the woman is Jewish and trying to exist as if she is not, being French is meaningless as France shipped off her own citizens to the camps. A love affair with a Vichy government official is dicey to put it mildly. Then there is the woman who during her time period is labeled a Heretic who lives with a Rabbi and pretends to be Jewish when she is not. And finally a woman who pretty much sets herself up as a female Plato destined to corruptd the young. Just as with the first woman the other two also have made matches or attachments that are impossible at best.<br />The jacket on the novel puts the questions that will be explored in the book in addition to others so I will not repeat them here. \\"Power without wisdom is tyranny; wisdom without power is pointless\\", pretty much sums up the conflict that Mr. Pears explores.<br />There is no question that the book is very well written and equally well executed. I don't believe it will succeed as; \\"Fingerpost\\" did for it is a bit too presumptuous. There is also nothing subtle about what is right and wrong when choices are needed, what is terribly wrong is that people are making those choices.ime period is labeled a Heretic who lives with a Rabbi and pretends to be Jewish when she is not. And finally a woman who pretty much sets herself up as a female Plato destined to corruptd the young. Just as with the first woman the other two also have made matches or attachments that are impossible at best.<br />The jacket on the novel puts the questions that will be explored in the book in addition to others so I will not repeat them here. \\"Power without wisdom is tyranny; wisdom without power is pointless\\", pretty much sums up the conflict that Mr. Pears explores.<br />There is no question that the book is very well written and equally well executed. I don't believe it will succeed as; \\"Fingerpost\\" did for it is a bit too presumptuous. There is also nothing subtle about what is right and wrong when choices are needed, what is terribly wrong is that people are making those choices.	2002-06-10
1514514:US	53047425	R2XYJ6FASDMX22	0786885831	342022559	In the Company of Angels: A Novel	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Must Be Me	\\"In The Company Of Angels\\", seems to have captured the feeling of others who have written about the book. N.M. Kelby certainly has written a charming short story but I fail to see what the fuss is about.<br />The locale she sets her story in is charming, and the metaphors she creates from the town's product are for the most part well done. But there was nothing in this tale that has not appeared in a variety of other forms, and has not taken place during this ever-popular time period.<br />I appear to be in the minority here, but I found the story too familiar, and at times a bit too precious	2002-06-10
1516982:US	53047425	R3UC8F6L44K4TN	0425181596	930027882	Heroes: U.S. Marine Corps Medal of Honor Winners	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Marines dont have that problem	Marc Cerasini has written both a history and an eloquent tribute to the men and women who have served this country as Marines. While his book, \\"Heroes, U.S. Marine Corps Medal Of Honor Winners\\", focuses on exceptional acts by exceptional men, it is easy to finish the book, place it on the shelf, and be left with the idea that the Marine Corps is pretty exceptional as well. My comments are about this book, and this book is about the Marines. All of the armed forces that protect this nation have their own remarkable stories of heroism; this book focuses on one of those forces.<br />The Marines have protected this country even prior to it becoming a nation. In 1775 they began to serve and deliver the country that was envisioned but not yet formed. They now are in their third century of service, and there is not a more effective fighting group anywhere. There are also known as, \\"the few and the proud\\". What is immediately apparent is their pride is for the corps and not for themselves. The Medal Of Honor by definition sets apart a single Marine. The fact that so many are awarded posthumously points once again to their pride in what they do, the beliefs for which they have died, and in many cases literally deciding to die to protect those they served with. What continually struck me were how many Marines made a decision that they knew virtually guaranteed their death. Throwing yourself on a grenade so that only you will die, giving those you are with a chance to live is far beyond a word like extraordinary. Staying behind, alone to cover others against numbers of the enemy that far outnumber your ability to stop, again is something far beyond exceptional.<br />The only commonality amongst those who earned this medal was that they were Marines. They were officers, enlisted men, they were teenagers, they were men in what would be considered middle age fighting alongside others that could have been their sons. There were even boys, years from eligibility that died taking islands in the Pacific Theatre.<br />When you read of the numbers of dead that died taking small pieces of land to either evict the Japanese, and or, establish airfields so that Japan could be reached, another issue in my opinion is forever settled. Those who fought each other, American or Japanese, routinely state the atomic bomb was a gift to both sides. The weapons that were dropped were devastating; they were the most violent weapons and the most indiscriminate of killers. However if the balance of the islands leading to Japan, and then Japan herself had been taken as the other islands had, the dead on both sides would have been massively increased.<br />The words at the top of these comments are part of a quote written by President Reagan. The entire quote is, \\"Some people go through life wondering if they have made a difference. Marines don't have that problem\\".lands in the Pacific Theatre.<br />When you read of the numbers of dead that died taking small pieces of land to either evict the Japanese, and or, establish airfields so that Japan could be reached, another issue in my opinion is forever settled. Those who fought each other, American or Japanese, routinely state the atomic bomb was a gift to both sides. The weapons that were dropped were devastating; they were the most violent weapons and the most indiscriminate of killers. However if the balance of the islands leading to Japan, and then Japan herself had been taken as the other islands had, the dead on both sides would have been massively increased.<br />The words at the top of these comments are part of a quote written by President Reagan. The entire quote is, \\"Some people go through life wondering if they have made a difference. Marines don't have that problem\\".	2002-06-07
1518317:US	53047425	R3CZRZB82RCE7H	0609608339	364345310	The Buffalo Soldier	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Depends On What You Like	Chris Bohjalian's, \\"The Buffalo Soldier\\", is a well-crafted and at times beautifully written novel. Simplified, the book is about human nature when placed under extreme duress due to tragedy. No parent should ever have to bury one child much less face the horror of two young deaths, and any attempt at recovery is by definition going to be traumatic at best. The author creates a couple that tries to travel back to some form of life that is tolerable if not one that will ever be purely happy again. The way they proceed is extreme in the unusual choices they make, and the ingrained difficulties their choice is burdened with.<br />The setting is Vermont, a very rural Vermont of dirt roads and mountain streams that can still tear apart lives. This is not Burlington by the lake, a city an hours drive from cosmopolitan Montreal. The decision to take a Foster Child in to their home is hardly an easy choice. Many children from these programs have lead itinerant lives at best, and have experienced views of human behavior that no person should see. So when a grieving couple opens their home to a young African American boy who has been bounced about by the system from his original home in Philadelphia, only to be placed in a very rural and very white environment, there are issues for everyone.<br />The author deals with so many issues that it is not possible to comment on them all, so I choose one that I enjoyed the most. This young boy has the good fortune to have an elderly couple that helps him to learn about his history and define himself, who offer some stability while his foster parents deal with their own demons that are far from confronted much less solved.<br />This couple has traveled the nation and has brought home every knick-knack they have seen. These are the people that the makers of cheesy souvenirs live for. But more importantly they know this country's history and with a book and a cap with a buffalo on it they change this young man's life. Buffalo soldier was the name given to African American soldiers by Native Americans. It is a name that was given out of respect for these men, men that history too often slights.<br />The young man learns of the history that caused these men to be honored, and they become for him the role models that he will emulate. This part of the novel was my favorite element; there were many others but none that struck with such power and grace. And that is why my comments for the title of this review are a bit ambivalent. There was much about the book I found to be slow, and some was a bit clich&eacute;. However this relationship made the entire book a worthwhile read.the name given to African American soldiers by Native Americans. It is a name that was given out of respect for these men, men that history too often slights.<br />The young man learns of the history that caused these men to be honored, and they become for him the role models that he will emulate. This part of the novel was my favorite element; there were many others but none that struck with such power and grace. And that is why my comments for the title of this review are a bit ambivalent. There was much about the book I found to be slow, and some was a bit clich. However this relationship made the entire book a worthwhile read.	2002-06-06
1520120:US	53047425	R1HH5H132AYKCF	0399148728	440578728	Fire Ice (The Numa Files)	Books	5	55	58	N	N	Interesting Progression	Clive Cussler has done what some other accomplished writers have tried and failed to do. He started a new series that he co-authors, he has kept the quality of the reading very near that of his own books, and now they have gone from a paperback format to hardcover. The last step is a major one and speaks very well of the care this new series was created with. Other authors have tried the same diversification and they are not worth the soft cover format they were introduced with, and will never see the more expensive binding.<br />The central organization is the same; specifically NUMA, but the central character and the events he is involved in are stepped down from the more outrageous elements that sometimes turn a Dirk Pitt adventure into something akin to Indiana Jones. The famous bathtub escape comes to mind. The Pitt adventures have become classic in the genre and they make for great reading, they also have had occasion to go over the top at times. Kurt Austin is Dirk Pitt on a smaller scale. Austin collects antique dueling pistols while Dirk accumulates World War Two German Jets, railroad cars, and fantastically rare cars.<br />The idea of introducing a Romanov theme into a story is a gutsy decision for it has been used countless times, and in the majority of uses has become an overused clich&eacute;. Cussler and Paul Kemprecos handle the idea well, and while it is still a bit fantastic it does not cross the line in to storytelling that really is a pretty wild stretch to suspend disbelief.<br />I don't know the science of the Methane (Fire Ice), but again it strikes me as being credible. These books almost seem to take their cue from some of the countless ships that Mr. Cussler has located in real life, and which history will always owe him a debt. This story has a tragic event, but unlike many of the Pitt series the results are far less dramatic and flamboyant. Austin certainly enjoys the beautiful woman that NUMA scientists seem to have a knack for finding wherever they go, but again it is toned down quite a bit.<br />Whether on his own or in collaboration with another author, if a book has Cussler's name on it you invariable get your money's worth. He is a great teller of tales, and knowledgeable of history, a combination that guaranties good books. This is really escapist fiction at its best. And for those who enjoy the non fiction work of Cussler and his search for old ships there is a second installment of that book on the way as well.they go, but again it is toned down quite a bit.<br />Whether on his own or in collaboration with another author, if a book has Cussler's name on it you invariable get your money's worth. He is a great teller of tales, and knowledgeable of history, a combination that guaranties good books. This is really escapist fiction at its best. And for those who enjoy the non fiction work of Cussler and his search for old ships there is a second installment of that book on the way as well.	2002-06-05
1522523:US	53047425	R1WZX9M9EYO0NZ	1564743861	293333429	Never Fade Away	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Debut Novel	\\"Never Fade Away\\", is William Hart's first novel. Dr. Hart has been a teacher of basic writing and (ESL) English As A Second Language at Los Angeles Universities, so how close this novel is to his experiences makes the moniker of novel less than absolute. His own experience clearly adds a great deal of credibility to the work, and this makes a strong message even more disturbing. The message that he shares is one that has gained in importance as events last fall have brought this country's immigration policies in to question. There are fine lines between prudent immigration law, xenophobia, and racism. As congress is getting itself prepared to crucify various governmental agencies hoping to score points for this November's elections the theme of this book only increases in relevance.<br />There have been disturbing books recently, and one specifically that spent a good deal of time on the bestseller list. They are opportunistic cheap self-promotion screeds that play on fear and ignorance and offer nothing of value. The people who read these books and those that write them are hardly Native Americans. Unless one is a full-blooded Native American, all of us have immigrated here or are the descendents of immigrants. For those who thought the Witch Hunts of McCarthy were a thing of the past, wait for these hearings. They have already been carefully scheduled so that the initial hearings are closed to the public, congress will adjourn to craft their campaign speeches laced with accusations that are indefensible, and then return for public hearings in September, and we all will be the worse for it.<br />The book takes the form of journal entries of a teacher and one of his students. This student and all others like her must pass a certain proficiency level in written English to stay in school regardless of their performance overall. It is reasonable to expect people that wish to make their home in The United States to have the abilities to write and speak competently. It is not appropriate to use these educational hurdles as institutional racism. And this is the environment that the book's teacher and his students struggle against. If the tests in reality are as described in the book a substantial number of us who have been hear for generations would fail.<br />Many may ridicule that last sentence, but I offer this. Recently national testing for history was done in our schools and when given the list of the primary combatants in WWII less than half of High School students provided the correct multiple-choice answer. The winner and third place occupant of the recent National Geographic Geography competition were both home-schooled.<br />\\"Never Fade Away\\", has other elements that were hard for me to justify. I don't know if I am being fair, or if the primary issue is just so volatile. For me some of the flashbacks and personal history seemed a bit awkward, but others may find these facets appropriate.<br />I enjoy the work of new authors, as there are so many names that seem to have a production line for their work. Small publishers have brought to readers new writers that may not be as polished as familiar names, and for that I thank them. Too much of contemporary fiction is occupied by different takes on tired themes, so make the leap occasionally to writers you know nothing of, and you will often be rewarded.is not appropriate to use these educational hurdles as institutional racism. And this is the environment that the book's teacher and his students struggle against. If the tests in reality are as described in the book a substantial number of us who have been hear for generations would fail.<br />Many may ridicule that last sentence, but I offer this. Recently national testing for history was done in our schools and when given the list of the primary combatants in WWII less than half of High School students provided the correct multiple-choice answer. The winner and third place occupant of the recent National Geographic Geography competition were both home-schooled.<br />\\"Never Fade Away\\", has other elements that were hard for me to justify. I don't know if I am being fair, or if the primary issue is just so volatile. For me some of the flashbacks and personal history seemed a bit awkward, but others may find these facets appropriate.<br />I enjoy the work of new authors, as there are so many names that seem to have a production line for their work. Small publishers have brought to readers new writers that may not be as polished as familiar names, and for that I thank them. Too much of contemporary fiction is occupied by different takes on tired themes, so make the leap occasionally to writers you know nothing of, and you will often be rewarded.	2002-06-03
1529425:US	53047425	R2TYX3PCBN544L	0060197846	414816337	A Different Drummer: My Thirty Years with Ronald Reagan	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Unique	Michael Deaver has written a very important book about President Reagan. You will learn more about President Reagan from one of the closest friends he ever had than you will from other memoirs, and certainly more than the official biography/historical fiction, \\"Dutch\\". This is not a trite sentimental tribute to a man who is clearly very highly esteemed by the author. It is a series of recollections about a friendship that was unique because President Reagan was a very private man, yet he considered his relationship with Mr. Deaver to be like that of a brother. And like brothers they had their good times and they had intense, and sometimes colorful exchanges and bad times. It is also a book that includes very private events in the author's life and the insights it gave him as to why Ronald Reagan the man was very different than many would presume. He was hugely popular, charismatic, and lead this country out of a malaise that it had been lead in to. Yet in private he was an enigmatic man, very private, and per Mr. Deaver quite shy. The book is worth reading for the description of a lunch that the president had with Mother Teresa. On any other day he may have been the most powerful person on the planet, but the balance of power shifted when the famous Saint of Calcutta took over.<br />Mr. Deaver was with Ronald Reagan from his first foray in to politics, and was one of the last people outside of immediate family that met with the former President just prior to his leaving the public stage. He shares with the reader his experiences from the beginning when he first met Reagan and was quite \\"unimpressed\\", to his final meeting in 1997 when his friend of almost 4 decades did not remember him. The final meeting is related candidly and with great respect, yet the horror that Alzheimer's inflicts on its victims is clearly communicated.<br />I have never understood why people are determined to characterize a man who is held is such high esteem, that the public ranks him as one of the top 3 presidents this country has had, as Clark Clifford infamously branded him, \\"an amiable dunce\\". Mr. Clifford cannot even claim amiable for a legacy. If his health had not failed he might have become the guest of one of this nation's, \\"Club Fed's\\".<br />This country is now about a 2 trillion dollar a year organization that we expect the occupant of The White House to manage in every detail, or at least we want the right to pillory him for anything that happens. The Federal Government is about 50 times the size of the world's largest company General Electric. G.E. certainly has a CEO and Jack Welch was one of the best, but even he had an army of people that helped run the company based on his core business beliefs. A successful presidency cannot be run any other way, the job is simply too big.<br />Mr. Deaver explains what Reagan's detractors cannot seem to grasp. A president must have a core set of beliefs that he brings to Washington, a set of goals and personal conduct he has held for most of his life. Then like any great CEO he must surround himself with people that know what the program is and can act with reasonable autonomy to implement it. Compare his first term staff with the second and you will see the difference the players make.<br />A few weeks ago Mrs. Reagan accepted the Medal of Freedom that was given to her and her husband. It was a Republican President that handed out the award, but it was Democratic President William Clinton who signed the legislation for it. It was only the second time in this nation's history that it was awarded to a, \\"First Couple\\". The event was yet another tribute paid to one of the finest presidents this country has had. Unfortunately for the former president, on that day he was locked away from enjoying the legacy he left this country with. He is in the hellacious void that is Alzheimer's.of the top 3 presidents this country has had, as Clark Clifford infamously branded him, \\"an amiable dunce\\". Mr. Clifford cannot even claim amiable for a legacy. If his health had not failed he might have become the guest of one of this nation's, \\"Club Fed's\\".<br />This country is now about a 2 trillion dollar a year organization that we expect the occupant of The White House to manage in every detail, or at least we want the right to pillory him for anything that happens. The Federal Government is about 50 times the size of the world's largest company General Electric. G.E. certainly has a CEO and Jack Welch was one of the best, but even he had an army of people that helped run the company based on his core business beliefs. A successful presidency cannot be run any other way, the job is simply too big.<br />Mr. Deaver explains what Reagan's detractors cannot seem to grasp. A president must have a core set of beliefs that he brings to Washington, a set of goals and personal conduct he has held for most of his life. Then like any great CEO he must surround himself with people that know what the program is and can act with reasonable autonomy to implement it. Compare his first term staff with the second and you will see the difference the players make.<br />A few weeks ago Mrs. Reagan accepted the Medal of Freedom that was given to her and her husband. It was a Republican President that handed out the award, but it was Democratic President William Clinton who signed the legislation for it. It was only the second time in this nation's history that it was awarded to a, \\"First Couple\\". The event was yet another tribute paid to one of the finest presidents this country has had. Unfortunately for the former president, on that day he was locked away from enjoying the legacy he left this country with. He is in the hellacious void that is Alzheimer's.	2002-05-28
1530347:US	53047425	R2ZBMKZFGM0AUI	0060193344	303934244	Burn Factor	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Self Immolation	This is the second work that I have read by Kyle Mills. My first experience was, \\"Free Fall\\", which I enjoyed for a variety of reasons. Everything that made the first read good was missing from this work, and additional negatives were present as well.<br />This book is a collection of extremely tired clich&eacute;s mixed with sadistic violence of the type employed when there is no plot. Heard this one before? Extremely low level government employee stumbles upon what would be a combination of filthy secrets so far fetched, that even when blamed on, you guessed it, the US Military, even the most devout cynic consumed by paranoia would have trouble buying this story even as fiction. The first of the books by Mr. Mills I read was appealing for the strong female that was central to the story. This time around one female is just above insulting to the gender, and the balance of women is nothing more than procured victims for graphically portrayed murders. But when National Security is trotted out as the reason for the storyline, at best you will groan, many will simply stop reading.<br />This author may or may not have more good work ahead of him. But I will wait until I can get a copy from the remaindered stack, as I did here, so as not to feel too badly cheated. \\"Burn Factor\\", is simply a badly written, poorly executed novel.	2002-05-27
1535412:US	53047425	R34PZQ0E9IVIRD	0684854848	919570880	Blind Eye: How the Medical Establishment Let a Doctor Get Away with Murder	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Gives Certain Groups Well Deserved Thrashing	If this were a novel I would probably not have finished it, if I had I would have dismissed it with one star and as much sarcasm about an incompetent author I could think of. The horror is that this book documents a serial killer who killed his victims in hospitals around The United States and overseas. He killed these people, many who were his own patients, and others because they were convenient. He killed because it allowed him to act out his fantasies and because he enjoyed committing murder. And at least part of his thrill was that he knew that the system of which he was a part would go out of its way to rationalize or knowingly deny the truth. And it was this mentality that lead him from state to state killing as he went.<br />This book is so disturbing because of the scope and the number of parties who allowed this killer to continue to kill. If these crimes had been committed in one hospital a finger could be pointed and those responsible punished. But he worked his way through Illinois, Ohio State University Hospitals, South Dakota, New York, Zimbabwe, and finally back to the US when he was arrested. He was not arrested for murder, and at the time he was caught he was passing through to his next job in Saudi Arabia.<br />The string of events and the years they occupy will leave you shaking your head. This man poisoned 6 coworkers and was sent to prison, this little event did not even slow him down when pursuing his next hospital post. You will even read of at least one member of the medical community that said even with this conviction they would still hire this man. And the truth is many more than one employer did. And many of those who could have stopped this person very early on remain in their professions today, and many of them hold positions of much greater authority.<br />How can this happen? The observations of nurses need to be dismissed along with victims who survived this serial killer together with roommates that witnessed his actions. Those in the hospital administration need to refuse to cooperate with investigators, and they must put their potential liability ahead of the bodies this man left in his wake. The process is simple; discredit anyone who may have something damaging to say, whine about how hard it is to prove a murder when effected by a doctor, and then write endorsements and recommendations of the killer that will not raise an eyebrow with the next employer. The goal is to push the guy out of your hospital without the killer or his victims suing, and then let the next hospital deal with him.<br />This guy is now serving three consecutive life sentences. This number is at least several dozen short of the number he killed. That he was finally charged and convicted had precious little to do with the hospitals he worked at. From what I was able to find he was convicted of murder at a Veteran's Administration Hospital, which would find it much harder to ignore the Federal Government.<br />At a minimum there are a dozen or so cells that should be occupied by other doctors and a string of hospital administrators. To that group can be added some members of the boards of doctors who are supposed to discipline their own, and not a few members of congress that ensure that tracking and documenting the histories of those we entrust are lives to remain vague and poorly documented.the hospital administration need to refuse to cooperate with investigators, and they must put their potential liability ahead of the bodies this man left in his wake. The process is simple; discredit anyone who may have something damaging to say, whine about how hard it is to prove a murder when effected by a doctor, and then write endorsements and recommendations of the killer that will not raise an eyebrow with the next employer. The goal is to push the guy out of your hospital without the killer or his victims suing, and then let the next hospital deal with him.<br />This guy is now serving three consecutive life sentences. This number is at least several dozen short of the number he killed. That he was finally charged and convicted had precious little to do with the hospitals he worked at. From what I was able to find he was convicted of murder at a Veteran's Administration Hospital, which would find it much harder to ignore the Federal Government.<br />At a minimum there are a dozen or so cells that should be occupied by other doctors and a string of hospital administrators. To that group can be added some members of the boards of doctors who are supposed to discipline their own, and not a few members of congress that ensure that tracking and documenting the histories of those we entrust are lives to remain vague and poorly documented.	2002-05-22
1537150:US	53047425	R1SVGH524CG5JM	0375421882	141191244	And Then You Die: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	5	15	17	N	N	And Then You Almost Die	The last installment in this series by Michael Dibdin gave fans of this Aurelio Zen series a reason to pause. Zen however is most certainly back, using a variety of names other than his own, as he mends from the bomb that nearly ended his run as one of the better detectives that exist only on paper. The folks that wanted Zen dead have not changed their mind, and in this surprisingly humorous book, a series of bodies fall within a few feet of Zen, victims of occupying the wrong spot on a beach or seat in a plane.<br />I have read all the books in the series and this newest addition is easily among the best. Zen has shared his life in a hopelessly corrupt and bureaucratic Italy, the occasional girlfriend and his colorful mother. This time we learn more about Aurelio, as he is required to travel to The United States. It is here we learn of Aurelio's classical view of where travel is appropriate; specifically, reasonable places to go are limited to those areas once in control of The Roman Empire. If the Romans never bothered with America, why should he? And to fly across an ocean is simply madness.<br />His destination is Los Angeles an area he becomes comfortable with seeing because he imagines it as rather a bucolic locale with a great number of Catholics. His rationale for Catholics versus Protestants has less to do with which is better and more to do with the devil you know.<br />As he has with the other installments of this series Michael Dibdin spins a great tale, maintains the tension and suspense, and essentially misdirects the reader through much of the book. Happily for Aurelio he finds a companion, and they become bound together by a combination of love and bizarre events. I hope this new female character appears again for she is a match for Aurelio, and adds a great new personality to the series.	2002-05-21
1550382:US	53047425	R550MFH8LIA2D	1586480278	941974007	Washington	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Insightful And Intelligent	\\"Washington\\", by Meg Greenfield is a wonderful book. Prior to the book's beginning there is a Foreword written by Katharine Graham that is very interesting to read and better written than many books. Almost as important as what this book is, is what it is not. Meg Greenfield was clearly well educated, brilliant, and a writer that could be tough without sinking into the mud. This book is devoid of gossip, and never even strays near the type of tabloid garbage that litters newsstands. She does talk about scandal, but she focuses on the damage it can do to the family and children of the person caught in some impropriety, not on the salacious details that are valueless.<br />For over 3 decades this lady covered Washington, and for most of that time it was for The Washington Post. When she arrived it was to a business that would not allow a women to step into press clubs to do her job, when she finally left she had become one of the more influential Editors, had been the first woman to occupy the many levels of the profession she pursued, and was a winner of The Pulitzer Prize as well. She was not outspoken on women's issues, she made her mark by her performance. Her comment, \\"that if liberated I will not serve\\", would anger some, but this lady's career was a success by any measure by either gender.<br />She characterizes Washington life as being akin to high school, with people playing the same roles that teenagers do. There are the groups to be part of, people that are shunned, and others that are the flavor of the moment. She provides a wonderful illustration of just how little substance many in Washington posses. The book is balanced as she also offers brief biographies of people who have come to this nation's capitol and actually retained their personalities, their integrity, and made a difference.	2002-05-09
1551025:US	53047425	R2NNXVLLB42N2E	0805063196	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	5	152	156	N	N	Confident With Him As My Surgeon	\\"Complications\\", by Dr. Atul Gawande is a very gutsy and honest discussion about medicine in general, and surgeons in particular. The book is also unique, for unlike others of its type it is written by a surgeon that is starting his career, and not looking back upon it. I would imagine that the book caused some consternation amongst his peers. The book does nothing to minimize the skills and accomplishments of the men and women who can reach in to the body and do some pretty spectacular work. The book does portray them as human beings that come with all the normal traits that any of us do. The pressure they must deal with is that when they make a mistake, it can irreparably harm or cause the death of the patient they are trying to help.<br />The vast majority of careers that people practice does not involve decisions that can cause the outcomes I mention above. And few occupations require of their practitioners near perfection, that if not delivered has a major legal industry prepared to hammer them with lawsuits. Incompetent or negligent doctors should be punished and removed from practice, but what about a human error, or a doctor that makes every single decision that is correct and appropriate for the patient he or she sees, and misses the 1 in 250,000 cases where doing everything correctly can cause a patient to die. The final chapter of this book deals with exactly those type of odds. Whether those odds are beaten often depends on the instincts of the physician. And these intuitive feelings they may or may not act upon are certainly helped by experience, but younger doctors without the years that familiarity brings can often make a decision largely because they are so new. Dr. Gawande makes clear that all the sophisticated technology available does not replace the one on one interaction with the patient.<br />If we ever need a surgeon we want a person we perceive as experienced, a person we are literally willing to risk our health and our lives with. The problem is that virtually no one wants to be part of a new surgeon learning his craft even with very experienced surgeons standing right at the table, watching and even directing the path the surgery takes. Dr. Gawande also shares his feelings when his children are ill and the contradictions he deals with as a parent, even as he is often on the other side with people judging him and his youth.<br />The statistics say that a surgeon will make a given mistake once every 200 times he or she performs a surgery that is described in the book, and that is also fairly common. If the mistake is made the results range from terrible to potentially terminal. The author does a great job of sharing what it feels like to be told that you will make the mistake, that doing the task 99.5% of the time without error can still cost a life.<br />A person who decides to become a general surgeon will study and practice until their mid 30's before they are able to operate on their own. That type of commitment is rare, and recent articles have said that less men and women are willing to devote that much of their lives before beginning their chosen career.<br />We want these people to be perfect when it is either we, or someone we care about that is to be operated on. They are not perfect, although those that are excellent can statistically come very near perfection. I would trust Dr. Gawande for he is a man that is clearly skilled, but is also acutely aware of how fine a line he walks every moment of his day.m is that virtually no one wants to be part of a new surgeon learning his craft even with very experienced surgeons standing right at the table, watching and even directing the path the surgery takes. Dr. Gawande also shares his feelings when his children are ill and the contradictions he deals with as a parent, even as he is often on the other side with people judging him and his youth.<br />The statistics say that a surgeon will make a given mistake once every 200 times he or she performs a surgery that is described in the book, and that is also fairly common. If the mistake is made the results range from terrible to potentially terminal. The author does a great job of sharing what it feels like to be told that you will make the mistake, that doing the task 99.5% of the time without error can still cost a life.<br />A person who decides to become a general surgeon will study and practice until their mid 30's before they are able to operate on their own. That type of commitment is rare, and recent articles have said that less men and women are willing to devote that much of their lives before beginning their chosen career.<br />We want these people to be perfect when it is either we, or someone we care about that is to be operated on. They are not perfect, although those that are excellent can statistically come very near perfection. I would trust Dr. Gawande for he is a man that is clearly skilled, but is also acutely aware of how fine a line he walks every moment of his day.	2002-05-08
1552241:US	53047425	RYQCN6PWIQ7W3	0760725594	136197598	Making the List: A Cultural History of the American Bestseller, 1900-1999	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting As Far As It Goes	\\"Making The List\\", is an interesting book that piques the reader's interest rather than satisfying it. This 10-chapter book contains 195 pages, and more than half, 100 pages, are just the lists of the best-selling books for a given year.<br />Michael Korda provides informative, witty, and at times sharp edged commentary for the 10 decades of books that he comments upon. The analysis he offers is uneven, although it greatly improves once his observations originate during his tenure as a publisher. I have always wondered just how many books need to be sold to make the annual list. He does provide numbers occasionally, but they are the exception not the rule. Some of his remarks are readily apparent to readers who pay attention to the names of authors that routinely appear year after year. Being told that a short roster of names have virtually locked up the annual lists for almost 20 is not news.	2002-05-07
1558337:US	53047425	RF6Q8UWNTANVW	1582341761	871434661	The Outfit: The Role of Chicago's Underworld in the Shaping of Modern America	Books	3	23	33	N	N	Four Ninety Of Five Eleven	\\"The Outfit\\", by Gus Russo is an interesting history not only of the crime that organized and spread from Chicago, but also of the city. The book is detailed and well researched. It roams about The United States as the influence of those in Chicago spread to Nevada, California, New York, and even offshore to Cuba. These are not the only geographic areas covered, rather a small sampling. The book tells stories about many famous people and depending on your knowledge prior to reading, by the end of the book some icons may be badly tarnished. Frank Sinatra is frequently the object of ridicule, a man who could be summoned by the crime bosses to squire their daughter to her high school prom. Other events described in the book are unprintable here. Literally dozens of familiar actors and actresses are discussed, few are accused of anything, most were victimized, and one story of Marilyn Monroe documents abuse that is reprehensible.<br />Liquor, gambling, jukeboxes, clothes cleaning, dairies, slaughterhouses, and almost every activity they had the time to extort were targeted. Politicians also loom large in this book including but not limited to, Presidents F.D. Roosevelt, Truman, and of course John Kennedy. Easily the most loathed public official was Robert Kennedy. In his enthusiasm to document organized crime he often had to be warned where not to look, for if he did, the criminal he would find would be his father. The book is very tough on the Kennedy Clan, but if what is written is accurate they deserve all of the dirt that they have buried themselves under. That John Kennedy remains one of the most respected Presidents by many in The United States is a testimony to continued ignorance on a mind numbing level. JFK became president because of his father's money and a variety of promises his father made with, and in some cases without his son's knowledge. JFK was not and would not have been elected president without organized crime's influence and money.<br />Both of the Kennedy brothers were assassinated, and I found the book's treatment of these events peculiar. The ties between Kennedy's administration and organized crime were many, and of massive financial consequence. However when the killing of JFK is discussed all responsibility is dumped on Castro, and the nation's organized serial killers all act as though killing immediately became unprofessional. The death of Robert Kennedy is barely mentioned, although he was one of the most hated men by those that helped put his brother in The White House.<br />The two numbers at the head of these comments represent the main body of the book, and the Afterword. During the book the author in no way endorses crime, but there is a sense that he feels less that complete condemnation for these people. In the Afterword he attempts to rationalize crime as a step in the immigrant's progress, and then compares the top members of Chicago's crime members with people such as Vanderbilt, Rockefeller, J.P Morgan, and a variety of other familiar names. And it is here that the author makes a leap that just does not work.<br />The vast majority of immigrants came to this country and contributed to its development without committing any manner of crime. And it was immigrants that were frequently victimized by these criminals. Go to vote and they would beat a person senseless or perhaps bomb the polling office. When they were stealing hundreds of millions of dollars and exploiting pension plans and unions, whom but the average working person were they exploiting? When they stole businesses, monopolized cigarette machines and jukeboxes, whom does the author think was victimized? When they opened their gambling operations whether illegally or in Las Vegas, the got their money illegally, they were not satisfied with the built in odds for the house rather they would cheat to make even more money. And of course skimming hundreds of millions in cash came from where? The same people the author claims were working their way through the first generation of being immigrants.<br />And how about the fact that the very existence of all activities of organized crime was in fact illegal? Some of the industrialists he names were not humanitarians, but then running a steel mill, a bank, or a railroad was not fundamentally illegal. Their business conduct was outlandish by today's standards, but the trustbusters and regulators eventually reined them in.<br />What legacy has organized crime given the country? I have nothing to suggest. And while I do not know what motivated them to do what they did, whether it was guilt or fear of the end of their lives, the men who the author so blithely places alongside professional killers, kidnappers, men who were committing crime whenever they made a business decision did leave legacies. Henry Ford was a vicious Anti-Semite, but there is The Ford Foundation. Carnegie was a steel monopolist; he also seeded countless towns with libraries, and donated huge sums as well. The Morgan Family collected and housed a variety of collections that are without peer that are now part of the nation's treasures. Rockefeller was not a man you wanted to compete with; he built one of the finest universities in the country, and again left billions in a foundation.<br />I was waiting to see the author name William Gates of Microsoft fame. But again, as tough a businessman as he may be, what he does is not illegal, and as he entered his 40's he and his wife Melinda have created that largest foundation that exists or has ever existed on the planet, about 24 Billion Dollars. Microsoft has bent and broken business law, but unlike the author's subject he is not someone who killed and mutilated anyone who was inconvenient.<br />A very good book on a difficult subject was spoiled by a weak attempt at rationalizing behavior that is anything but complex.ing their way through the first generation of being immigrants.<br />And how about the fact that the very existence of all activities of organized crime was in fact illegal? Some of the industrialists he names were not humanitarians, but then running a steel mill, a bank, or a railroad was not fundamentally illegal. Their business conduct was outlandish by today's standards, but the trustbusters and regulators eventually reined them in.<br />What legacy has organized crime given the country? I have nothing to suggest. And while I do not know what motivated them to do what they did, whether it was guilt or fear of the end of their lives, the men who the author so blithely places alongside professional killers, kidnappers, men who were committing crime whenever they made a business decision did leave legacies. Henry Ford was a vicious Anti-Semite, but there is The Ford Foundation. Carnegie was a steel monopolist; he also seeded countless towns with libraries, and donated huge sums as well. The Morgan Family collected and housed a variety of collections that are without peer that are now part of the nation's treasures. Rockefeller was not a man you wanted to compete with; he built one of the finest universities in the country, and again left billions in a foundation.<br />I was waiting to see the author name William Gates of Microsoft fame. But again, as tough a businessman as he may be, what he does is not illegal, and as he entered his 40's he and his wife Melinda have created that largest foundation that exists or has ever existed on the planet, about 24 Billion Dollars. Microsoft has bent and broken business law, but unlike the author's subject he is not someone who killed and mutilated anyone who was inconvenient.<br />A very good book on a difficult subject was spoiled by a weak attempt at rationalizing behavior that is anything but complex.	2002-05-02
1558624:US	53047425	R2TA8JJTINIC01	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	It Is Hard To Share Very Much	Ian Mcewan is an accomplished writer. This work, \\"Atonement\\", was nominated for, \\"The Booker Prize\\", and while he did not win this time, he has one the award in the past. I have read two of his previous works, and while I enjoyed both they each were too brief. Extremely well done, but the ending came too quickly for such fine work. With, \\"Atonement\\", he has written a much more elaborate work, and has done so with a mischievous style that is as rewarding as it is deceptive. From beginning to end his game is in play and it makes for any substantial commentary very difficult without giving away the end of the maze.<br />The reader is confronted with an extremely precocious 13 years old whose behavior passes traditional boundaries to become almost unbelievable. I also found her to be both one of the most aggravating and easiest characters to dislike that I have come across in some time. Her introspective musings and personal observations became almost tiresome and entirely too difficult to accept. And if there is any doubt, her subsequent behaviors are beyond atrocious, or are they?<br />Not many authors can maintain a deceptively planned story with such skill, or maintain the tension to literally the closing sentences. The author has done this and more. When you reach the end you will at once feel that you have been had by a very clever pen, and then realize the ending is far from decisive and singular. A very wonderful tale.	2002-05-02
1563017:US	53047425	R2BEX44VCPO69K	0151006792	197695835	Nuremberg: The Reckoning	Books	3	15	27	N	N	Indifferent	I am a great admirer of Mr. Buckley, and I have been a long-term fan of his fiction and non-fiction writing. He has tremendous gifts for both the written and spoke word, and it is a rare event that his written work is not excellent. I admit his last book, \\"Elvis In The Morning\\", left me a bit bewildered, but with, \\"Nuremberg The Reckoning\\", I am simply disappointed. Mr. Buckley has never had any difficulty making a historical event his own; bringing a fresh perspective to a subject a reader may feel he or she knows well. With this book there is nothing new, and when the book began to show promising lines of inquiry, they were never fully developed.<br />He broaches the subject of the inherent contradiction of Soviet participation when this same forced republic has a record of human slaughter that not only exceeds Hitler's, but also continues even as the trial takes place. He has his war criminal defendant pose questions that are very appropriate as they relate to The United States and its treatment of Native Americans, America's wars of aggression. I thought he was going to turn his formidable skill on all the contradictions of the trial, but he never really did. The Nuremberg Trials were incredibly complicated beginning with there premises for existing, and the creation of law to then charge their Nazi Defendants with. There were also a variety of constraints place on the defense that would never hold in a traditional courtroom.<br />Mr. Buckley does deal with complex familial and religious issues, but for him it comes across as being a bit contrived. He has never been a writer who covers familiar ground in a seemingly familiar way. Also surprising was the lack of need for a dictionary. Generally I read Mr. Buckley's work side by side with a dictionary for he is the rarest of writers who uses as much of the English Language as he can, always finding the word that most precisely documents his thoughts. I knew something was amiss when I did not reach for the dictionary. For people who have read his work before you will know that I am not writing this in jest. This man has an amazing lexicon at his beck and call, and in the past has made great use of it.<br />At the beginning of the book Mr. Buckley lists several other works that he read and that evidently had a hand in his writing this book. I have read about half of them, and as a reading list it is excellent.ry. For people who have read his work before you will know that I am not writing this in jest. This man has an amazing lexicon at his beck and call, and in the past has made great use of it.<br />At the beginning of the book Mr. Buckley lists several other works that he read and that evidently had a hand in his writing this book. I have read about half of them, and as a reading list it is excellent.	2002-04-28
1568610:US	53047425	R7R8WI9FIRIRN	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	4	134	147	N	N	A Matter Of Style	Prior to the appearance of this biography, by Whitbread Award winning author Roy Jenkins, the only single volume work that I would have recommended to people would have been Sir Martin Gilbert's one volume biography. Gilbert has spent the better part of his life creating the definitive biography originally started by Churchill's son Randolph, and he continues to add 1,000 page companion volumes of documents that supplement the massive primary work.<br />If a reader were to select this work by Jenkins they would not gain a complete insight into the legendary figure that Sir Winston Spencer Churchill is. That a new biography approaching 1,000 pages made the NYT Bestseller's List is a testimony to Churchill's place in history. I doubt there is a politician that is more quoted than Sir Winston. The primary differences between the two books I mention are of style and completeness. Martin Gilbert in an accomplished historian, while Mr. Jenkins writes from a perspective of a man who sat in the House of Commons, witnessed Churchill in action, and documents his life primarily as a politician. There are formative episodes that are not included at all, which in the end prevents this very fine work from being a well-rounded documentary. A young Churchill spent time in Ireland, but this was never mentioned. The downfall of his father was much more complicated than the space allotted in this work, and his mother too is not represented enough.<br />The book also lacks extended time with the Churchill who was an amazing raconteur at dining tables from a very young age. Many of the great quotes from Churchill are not in this book, and many others are given short shrift. Mr. Jenkins style also takes a bit more effort than many may choose to expend. William F. Buckley Jr. could certainly breeze through some of the extremely arcane English that is used, but most would be well advised to have a dictionary handy. The author is also given to liberal uses of the French Language, often illustrating how Churchill's poor French was easily misinterpreted. A foreign language that is not footnoted or translated in place is presumptuous and harmful to a work, expecting readers to not only be fluent but competent enough to manage error prone French is just a bad way to present a book.<br />This is really a memoir of Churchill as remembered by Mr. Jenkins, and, as such it is a worthwhile read. For anyone starting out on his or her education on Churchill this is most certainly not the place to start. The official biography of Gilbert's is the best, but the multiple volumes, 10,000+ page works is much more than most would wish to tackle. The work is very readable; so if you are inclined do not hesitate. Sir Martin Gilbert's single volume work remains the standard, and William Manchester has produced two of what was to be a three-volume work. His health has prevented its completion, but his two completed volumes are excellent on their own.<br />There are dozens of single volume works on Churchill that have a narrower focus and better serve the reader. This book is very worthwhile for those who are great admirers of Churchill and have read many, or perhaps dozens of others. As a stand-alone work it does not give enough information and the style can lack clarity. Eventually worth a read, but should not be at or near the top of a reading list on Churchill.strating how Churchill's poor French was easily misinterpreted. A foreign language that is not footnoted or translated in place is presumptuous and harmful to a work, expecting readers to not only be fluent but competent enough to manage error prone French is just a bad way to present a book.<br />This is really a memoir of Churchill as remembered by Mr. Jenkins, and, as such it is a worthwhile read. For anyone starting out on his or her education on Churchill this is most certainly not the place to start. The official biography of Gilbert's is the best, but the multiple volumes, 10,000+ page works is much more than most would wish to tackle. The work is very readable; so if you are inclined do not hesitate. Sir Martin Gilbert's single volume work remains the standard, and William Manchester has produced two of what was to be a three-volume work. His health has prevented its completion, but his two completed volumes are excellent on their own.<br />There are dozens of single volume works on Churchill that have a narrower focus and better serve the reader. This book is very worthwhile for those who are great admirers of Churchill and have read many, or perhaps dozens of others. As a stand-alone work it does not give enough information and the style can lack clarity. Eventually worth a read, but should not be at or near the top of a reading list on Churchill.	2002-04-24
1569574:US	53047425	R3VYB9TX3MB2GS	0553801767	897469005	Scorched Earth	Books	5	11	15	N	N	When Half Filled With Hate The Glass Is Full	David L. Robbins has proven himself an accomplished writer of historical fiction with his two previous books, \\"The War Of The Rats and The End Of War\\". To the benefit of readers he has created a new novel based upon his imagination and the skill to render his thoughts into print. Historical Fiction provides some basis with which to work, some authors utilize history with great skill borrowing truths without using them as crutches for a weak imagination, limited creative thought. Mr. Robbins has shown he is amongst those who can compile original stories shuffled with facts and produce engaging work. With this novel, \\"Scorched Earth\\", he demonstrates he can create a unique tale in a place and time of his choosing.<br />Taken one at a time racism or religion can provide enough emotion to destroy any person or group. Either of these can, and has, literally changed the course of our history. The author has placed both of these volatile beliefs together and further compounded the conflict with The Law, which has yet to become blind to color, and the Press that too often seems to jettison humanity and justify their actions with the thinnest of rationales, the public's right to know. Add to these issues a host of all too common failings in personal relationships and you have an intricate tale, a complex enigma, that even with its end leaves room for interpretation and further thought that lasts well beyond the final page.<br />A married couple has a child after months of normal worry and concern, their only desire is that their child be healthy. A little girl is born and has a life measured in only minutes, a time so brief there is barely time to absorb her infirmity before she is gone. The child lives long enough to be given the name Nora Carol, and then is laid to rest in a church graveyard where her grandmother with whom she shares her name is a church leader and elder. The child has no rest, for her grandmother is white, her mother is white, but her father is black, and that is enough to make this child unwelcome. The church elders agree without exception, and the child is taken from her grave so rapidly and without any sensitivity a person would have to believe some plague was buried there, not a child.<br />With nothing more than tradition to mask their racist beliefs the community starts a series of events that lead to their church burning to the ground, an apparent murder, and a rush to judgment fueled by the same ignorance that violated a child's grave. Jim Crow thinking adds crimes without basis; the District Attorney adds charges no more founded in fact than the accusations they are based on in a quest for a capital crime conviction. A conviction that would bring death to one man as it embellishes the resume of another.<br />The book is filled with people and their personal demons, secrets that they will do almost anything to hide. And while my description may appear a familiar one, the author's tale is meticulously constructed, a maze of false leads and misdirection. And when the end arrives more will be revealed than any list you compile as you read.<br />A key to the solution of one mystery is something that could be easily dismissed as unlikely at best, or even impossible. But where else can the unexplained be accepted, where can the miraculous occur, if not on Holy Ground then where?<br />An excellent work by an author willing to step away from what has worked before, to expand his skill to another genre, and to do so brilliantly.that is enough to make this child unwelcome. The church elders agree without exception, and the child is taken from her grave so rapidly and without any sensitivity a person would have to believe some plague was buried there, not a child.<br />With nothing more than tradition to mask their racist beliefs the community starts a series of events that lead to their church burning to the ground, an apparent murder, and a rush to judgment fueled by the same ignorance that violated a child's grave. Jim Crow thinking adds crimes without basis; the District Attorney adds charges no more founded in fact than the accusations they are based on in a quest for a capital crime conviction. A conviction that would bring death to one man as it embellishes the resume of another.<br />The book is filled with people and their personal demons, secrets that they will do almost anything to hide. And while my description may appear a familiar one, the author's tale is meticulously constructed, a maze of false leads and misdirection. And when the end arrives more will be revealed than any list you compile as you read.<br />A key to the solution of one mystery is something that could be easily dismissed as unlikely at best, or even impossible. But where else can the unexplained be accepted, where can the miraculous occur, if not on Holy Ground then where?<br />An excellent work by an author willing to step away from what has worked before, to expand his skill to another genre, and to do so brilliantly.	2002-04-23
1570974:US	53047425	R2ELTWWS7F4QP1	0871138433	964368876	Lost Nation	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Jeffrey Lent Is Here To Stay	The first novel by this author was entitled, \\"In The Fall\\", and was exceptional. It was also his first work. Whatever he was to offer readers on his second effort would not only have to compete with his first, but would also have to demonstrate the depth of his talent. Critics would be looking for the sophomore jinx or the opportunity to label him a one hit wonder. \\"Lost Nation\\", is another extremely fine piece of writing that is unique, it does not rely on any repetition or formula from his first work. Quite to the contrary the cadence of this work is distinct from, \\"In The Fall\\", the dialogue is structured differently, at times almost a staccato exchange. I think the author deserves credit for not repeating what he has done in the past; his works to date has been wide and deep.<br />\\"Many people are cruel given the chance.\\" That quote is from his first book and to the extent his two works share commonality of perspective, \\"Lost Nation\\" embraces this idea as well. I wrote the following words about his previous work almost two years ago to the day. They applied to, \\"In The Fall\\", and they apply to, \\"Lost Nation\\". The writer I thought of when enjoying this work was John Steinbeck. The same way &quot;The Grapes Of Wrath&quot; stays with you years after it was read, or &quot;East Of Eden&quot; or &quot;Cannery Row&quot; lingers, this book will do the same. This is a story you will remember in detail, these are characters whose names you will recall, this caliber of book is why I read. &quot;In The Fall&quot; is the first book I have read in years that I believe will be a true classic in time. &quot;Instant Classic&quot; is a contradiction in terms. A classic has to age, to endure, to continue to be relevant, this work has all the necessary credentials, and in abundance.<br />The book begins in 1838 and concludes in 1896. Unlike his first book this is not a tale that methodically works its way through three generations. Much of the work is contained in a fairly brief span of time which is not a negative just an observation. This is also a story filled with characters that are quick to hate, accuse, and at best often have an uneasy and fragile relationship with their peers. The author's New Hampshire is a state with a piece of territory that is orphaned, neither this man's nor another's, neither of The United States nor Canada. These pioneers are determined yet their hold on their land and work is doubtful; they are subjected to the laws of two masters who only appear to inflict damage and recrimination.<br />When authority is taken by the settlers themselves the brittle equilibrium of their world is threatened. Violence is first tangential to the community but ultimately escalates to a point that actions taken will determine the community's future. A character who is easily judged when the story begins, is eventually shown as a man who is a philosopher, self-centered, focused, and a man who can express himself with eloquence, and in French, Greek, and Latin as well. He is like the book; Mr. Lent shares enough familiarity of time and place and of persons to get his readers settled, and then reveals his own tale with characters that are not one dimensional clich&eacute;s you have met countless times before, rather his own people placed in his place and time.<br />If you missed, \\"In The Fall\\", add both books to your reading list. If you have enjoyed this man's work before, you are sure to enjoy his world once again.an of time which is not a negative just an observation. This is also a story filled with characters that are quick to hate, accuse, and at best often have an uneasy and fragile relationship with their peers. The author's New Hampshire is a state with a piece of territory that is orphaned, neither this man's nor another's, neither of The United States nor Canada. These pioneers are determined yet their hold on their land and work is doubtful; they are subjected to the laws of two masters who only appear to inflict damage and recrimination.<br />When authority is taken by the settlers themselves the brittle equilibrium of their world is threatened. Violence is first tangential to the community but ultimately escalates to a point that actions taken will determine the community's future. A character who is easily judged when the story begins, is eventually shown as a man who is a philosopher, self-centered, focused, and a man who can express himself with eloquence, and in French, Greek, and Latin as well. He is like the book; Mr. Lent shares enough familiarity of time and place and of persons to get his readers settled, and then reveals his own tale with characters that are not one dimensional clichs you have met countless times before, rather his own people placed in his place and time.<br />If you missed, \\"In The Fall\\", add both books to your reading list. If you have enjoyed this man's work before, you are sure to enjoy his world once again.	2002-04-22
1572815:US	53047425	R34N1LRU1F6D17	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	24	33	N	N	Why Genocide Is Repetitive	It should be the easiest subject to have universal agreement on; Genocide is reprehensible and cannot be defended. The reality is of course much different for our species is the only one that kills, tortures, and maims its members without cause. Differences in religion, the desire to control land, natural resources, or hunger for power are not reasons to kill entire groups. The title of the book is, \\"A Problem From Hell\\", and it is an outstanding work by Samantha Power. She is not only a competent historian she spent years in the midst of one of the more recent examples of what could also be called, a problem of human nature. This Nation's Congress took 40 years to ratify the treaty on Genocide. It seems some Southern Congressmen were worried about culpability from Jim Crow that was still alive and well, others for the millions of Native Americans slaughtered because they were in our way.<br />She specifically covers the massacre of Armenians by Turkey, Hitler's murder of the Jews, Pol Pot's slaughter of Cambodians, Saddam Hussein gassing minorities in Iraq, the 1994 murder of 800,000 people in Rwanda, and most recently the Serb Nationalist's bid to join the roster of those who kill almost for sport. The mass killing is not sport however the individual conduct of the sadists who enjoy inventive killing is hard to read.<br />In 1915 The United States was not in a position to impose on Turkey. It is now 2002 and The United States deems Turkey an ally, a country that has refused to admit any Genocide took place. The United States has a congress that killed a vote condemning the Turkish Government because hours before the vote President Clinton, a lame duck President asked them too. It is a sad commentary that our congress lacks the moral fiber of men like Henry Morgenthau our Ambassador to Turkey while they were killing, a man who was denouncing what he called, \\"Race Murder\\", while trying to gain the attention of his government.<br />The Holocaust is well documented and some of the participants were punished, but it and Armenia are events that are 50 and 100 years old, and blurred by time. They are still better remembered than millions of Native Americans slaughtered, and millions, who were bought, sold, enslaved, and murdered because they were black.<br />In the 1970's 2,000,000 were killed in Cambodia, the 1980's brought Saddam Hussein and his slaughter of The Kurds, and then in 1994, the world watched Rwanda, 800,00 dead, and then the former Yugoslavia, they are still counting the missing. In 2001 on September 11th on a comparably small scale we experienced the murder of our citizens only because they were Americans.<br />Largely because of what was Yugoslavia a new international treaty was created to establish a body to constantly deal with the crimes discussed. The treaty requires 60 nations ratify the document for it to become reality. When this book was written 43 had signed, about 10 days ago 66 was reached. The United States is not a party to this effort.<br />When I started this book it was easy to deal with U.S. conduct simplistically. At the end of the book the same issues became very gray. As the world stands today any intervention will require The United States. This has nothing to do with misplaced national pride it's reality. We had Special Forces in Afghanistan 48 hours after The World Trade Center was hit. We can monitor any piece of ground on the planet with either satellites, manned or unmanned aircraft capable of real time intelligence gathering within hours of deciding to deploy them. Our military is without peer in both individual capability and technological superiority. So what should we do?<br />The Rwandan Genocide took place in approximately 100 days, 8,000 murdered per day. The only effective response would have been a unilateral move by The United States into Rwanda. The United Nations would take 100 days to agree on the shape of the table to meet at. What would be our reason for violating another sovereign nation? Genocide seems to be a very good reason. But now back to reality. How many confirmed deaths justify military intervention, what threshold needs to be met for our country to commit forces and lose lives of our soldiers? And it may be unpopular to state but there needs to be more than philosophical outrage to act. What is Rwanda to The U.S.? The reality is virtually nothing. Iraq threatened our economy intervention was an easy call. A U.N. sanctioned operation; it took 5 months to start, had severe limitations, and left Iraq a viable threat.<br />The conclusion I came to after reading and thinking about the book is that the closest one can get to a stated policy would be something like what follows. The United States decides that we are going to be the world's police force. No other country can do it, so we will. Economic sanctions will be forced upon the offending country to pay the bill, because the citizenry of this nation will not. This will necessitate our not being involved in any treaty that exposes us to any liability or sanction other than those we place on ourselves. The other extreme is we act only when it is in the interest of our country to do so The Rwandas of the world are ignored, and we protect our interests or punish those responsible for September 11th like attacks.<br />I enjoyed this book, and I share the author's anger and frustration. There is no record on effective international cooperation, and there is no way The United States will become a police force. It is true a Serb official killed himself 2 weeks ago to avoid being deported and tried, and the Dutch Government resigned last week over their inaction during Srebrenica. Neither action saved a single life.<br />Genocide will stop when humans evolve further, not before.vereign nation? Genocide seems to be a very good reason. But now back to reality. How many confirmed deaths justify military intervention, what threshold needs to be met for our country to commit forces and lose lives of our soldiers? And it may be unpopular to state but there needs to be more than philosophical outrage to act. What is Rwanda to The U.S.? The reality is virtually nothing. Iraq threatened our economy intervention was an easy call. A U.N. sanctioned operation; it took 5 months to start, had severe limitations, and left Iraq a viable threat.<br />The conclusion I came to after reading and thinking about the book is that the closest one can get to a stated policy would be something like what follows. The United States decides that we are going to be the world's police force. No other country can do it, so we will. Economic sanctions will be forced upon the offending country to pay the bill, because the citizenry of this nation will not. This will necessitate our not being involved in any treaty that exposes us to any liability or sanction other than those we place on ourselves. The other extreme is we act only when it is in the interest of our country to do so The Rwandas of the world are ignored, and we protect our interests or punish those responsible for September 11th like attacks.<br />I enjoyed this book, and I share the author's anger and frustration. There is no record on effective international cooperation, and there is no way The United States will become a police force. It is true a Serb official killed himself 2 weeks ago to avoid being deported and tried, and the Dutch Government resigned last week over their inaction during Srebrenica. Neither action saved a single life.<br />Genocide will stop when humans evolve further, not before.	2002-04-20
1576853:US	53047425	R1M12APYLLGLKW	0374105316	84958990	Anthony Blunt: His Lives	Books	5	35	36	N	N	The Most Famous Quintet	The individuals who comprised The Cambridge Five have been extensively documented as individuals as well as a group. Miranda Carter's book is worthwhile for it not only brings truly new information to this man's duplicity; she also spends a great deal of time on the man himself. This is a thorough autobiography and not just a spy novel barely elevated to the non-fiction category. Some readers may find the book too long on the man and too brief on his activities as a spy. Anthony Blunt was a traitor, but to limit his long life to that one word is to greatly minimize who this man was. The wide-ranging life he lead together with the positions of influence he held outside of intelligence agencies, makes him an even more fascinating character. None of his actions diminish or justify his perfidious conduct; they do make him much more than a one-dimensional traitor to his country.<br />Most of the spies that are exposed today have often become extremely wealthy for betraying their country. When Blunt was first recruited it was during a time when the Oxford Union Society within the college carried the debate with the motion, \\"that this house declines to fight for King or Country\\". In October of 1933 the Labor Party on, \\"no issue but the pacifist one\\", according to Stanley Baldwin replaced the Conservatives. And Europe in general was not interested much less enthusiastic about a second world war less than a generation after the first finally ended. Persons notable not only for their fame but also for their gullibility marketed Communism with success including their tours and subsequent spreading of nonsense regarding Potemkin Villages. These folks were believers; they were not making a living. They were supporting something they actually believed in at one time as opposed to those who are on the hunt for their various pieces of silver.<br />What Miranda Carter meticulously documents is Blunt's life as a nearly unbroken series of either unconventional or anti-establishment choices. There is also a great deal of evidence that as competent an art historian as he may have been, it also appears participating in art fraud was yet another of this man's defects. I found her documentation of his almost ascetic living conditions interesting as well.<br />There may be something that I am missing but I was amazed with the leniency England treated men like Blunt. In 1964 he admitted to his activities for which he was granted complete immunity. It was not until Margaret Thatcher revealed this deal in 1979 out of either personal anger or thought for political gain was he finally exposed. As the defections of his more notorious comrades had already taken place and England had been greatly embarrassed, it seems odd that fear of further embarrassment would cause them to make a deal with this criminal long after he was a meaningful asset to the Former USSR. Miranda Carter also documents the periods when none of the Cambridge Recruits were believed to be genuine by Moscow, and how vast amounts of information they delivered was never even read.<br />I have read a number of books on this topic and would recommend this book for anyone who is interested. I expect there will be more books if and when additional documents are found/released, but until then this is the best work I have read on Blunt.oices. There is also a great deal of evidence that as competent an art historian as he may have been, it also appears participating in art fraud was yet another of this man's defects. I found her documentation of his almost ascetic living conditions interesting as well.<br />There may be something that I am missing but I was amazed with the leniency England treated men like Blunt. In 1964 he admitted to his activities for which he was granted complete immunity. It was not until Margaret Thatcher revealed this deal in 1979 out of either personal anger or thought for political gain was he finally exposed. As the defections of his more notorious comrades had already taken place and England had been greatly embarrassed, it seems odd that fear of further embarrassment would cause them to make a deal with this criminal long after he was a meaningful asset to the Former USSR. Miranda Carter also documents the periods when none of the Cambridge Recruits were believed to be genuine by Moscow, and how vast amounts of information they delivered was never even read.<br />I have read a number of books on this topic and would recommend this book for anyone who is interested. I expect there will be more books if and when additional documents are found/released, but until then this is the best work I have read on Blunt.	2002-04-17
1579169:US	53047425	RYG311OEFZ1FK	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Visual That Is Shared	W.G. Sebald's death is a loss for anyone who enjoys exceptional writing. Like the majority of his previous novels, \\"Austerlitz\\", has been honored with literary awards inclusive of those bestowed posthumously.<br />The book has a striking cover photograph of a young boy who is dressed as if he is off to an audience of a royal court. His poise is as striking as his manner of dress. The cover is a starting point for the use of photographs throughout the novel. This is the first work I have read by this author, so this may be unique, or part of his standard presentation. I feel it was a powerful element to the book. The novel is the author's view of the world he creates, the environment that he places his characters within. The photographs add an entirely new level of detail without detracting from the characters or what the reader sees in their own mind's view.<br />With a less skilled writer the photographs could easily have become a crutch, standing in for observations the writer was unable to create authentically. Mr. Sebald presents observations and experiences of his characters with great detail and then will share a photo of what inspired the thoughts of his protagonists. I know that may sound a bit muddled, and everything in the book is from the author, but the manner he uses the visual to illustrate what he sees as a writer as opposed to what most of us miss is excellent.<br />The somewhat serendipitous meetings that mark the progress of our narrator and an enigmatic man, from their first accidental meeting, to a series of further coincidental exchanges could easily have been difficult to accept. In this work it never was, the narrator became a sort of touchstone for a man rediscovering his life, almost his diarist.<br />I look forward to reading more of this man's work.	2002-04-15
1579491:US	53047425	R2V9Q6EAZQ3T3J	0141002166	493689231	Blue Ridge	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Rural Or Urban	This is only the second book I have read by Mr. Pearson, the other was, \\"Polar\\", and it happens they share many of the same players. Had I known, I would have read them in order, but they both stand on their own, and both are extremely well done.<br />My impression was this author portrayed small towns and the wildly colorful on the edge characters they contain. In this book he shifts from a rural venue to the ultimate urban setting of New York City repeatedly without pause or misstep. There is commonality between the two protagonists as well as the experience of unwinding two separate homicides. The killings, the reactions they cause, their investigations, and eventual resolutions are not only the common focal point but also the means by which the author defines two very different communities, two very different ways of life. In both settings a life can be taken for little thought or consideration, whether for a perceived sleight, or a business deal gone askew.<br />In NYC there are viewing rooms for the living to identify the dead, when what amounts to a skeleton is found much further south on The Appalachian Trail, the remains are ferried in the trunk of a cruiser within a plastic bag. The author takes a familiar situation and puts it on the other side of the glass. The death of a child is devastating to a parent, but what is it when the child is the result of an impulse, when the child never becomes more than a picture of a toddler in a wallet? What fundamental ties are there, if any, between a parent and their child regardless of time or seeming indifference?<br />To date I have read and very much enjoyed both of the works I have read by this author, and I plan on working through the other 5.	2002-04-15
1581193:US	53047425	R379SQYJD6D2O8	1585671975	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Complete Historical Context	Robert Littell has written some of the best books in this genre but for some reason he does not seem to have the audience of a LeCarre, a Ludlum, and others. If you enjoy any of the well known and widely read of this type you will certainly enjoy this man's work. \\"The Company\\", is a massive work of almost 900 pages, it still reads well and is in no way ponderous or excessive. As many books seem to continually shorten it is a pleasing exception that Mr. Littell took all the time and pages he needed to tell his story.<br />To any readers of Cold War novels all of the topics that are covered in this book will be familiar but not unwelcome. This book covers a very large portion of the CIA'S existence and presents familiar events as part of a continuum as opposed to focusing on a single event like The Bay Of Pigs, Kennedy, Suez, etc in isolation. There are very good books on all of these topics both documentary and in the form of novels. This work places them all in a larger continual historical context as well as a more realistic one. These historical events did not take place in solitary or in a vacuum, they were events that were planned and dealt with together with all of the other issues that were at hand for the agency at the time. They were also planned and executed by people who developed and created the atmosphere of the agency with their talents as well as their faults. By presenting the large picture as opposed to an isolated historical event, Mr. Littell gives readers the wide perspective that only an inclusive history can offer.<br />This is a novel and while not appropriate it is tempting to forget that what you are reading contains much truth albeit as presented in the form of literary fiction. Mr. Littell clearly has his favorites and those he thinks little of in terms of the players who conducted the operations at the agency. He gets close to the edge of editorial extreme with some of his depictions but I don't know that he really crossed any lines that readers will find difficult to accept.<br />If you have never read this man's work, this is not only a great place to begin, but also a grand tale told with the appropriate pace.eaders will find difficult to accept.<br />If you have never read this man's work, this is not only a great place to begin, but also a grand tale told with the appropriate pace.	2002-04-13
1583015:US	53047425	R341L90SLZXW8C	067003035X	532654690	Polar	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Decisively Wicked And Perceptive	A lost child is certainly not a topic that would normally be considered for satire. T. R. Pearson uses the event and the actions that follow for observations that are scathing in their commentary on human nature that will be all too familiar. When you are done with this story you may well agree the child who wandered off made the correct choice.<br />The spectacle that is made of a child presumed missing is often a circus that the media dominates. The familiar collection of flowers and sentiment that mark a spot of interest, in this case, is constructed initially of flowers and bouquets stolen from a cemetery. The parents of the missing child are certainly culpable to a degree and the author makes them either pay or sell-out in manners so absurd that if they appeared on television tomorrow, the events would appear common.<br />The local seer who transforms from a twenty-four hour a day Satin Channel adult film junkie in to a predictor of events is as well done as it is searing. Predicting events that are of no consequence with ease and repetition this Virginia savant is useless when it comes to any issue of importance.<br />This is the first time I have read this author and he is definitely an original.	2002-04-11
1583030:US	53047425	R31YSKU38FXBL8	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Remarkable Man	Michael J. Fox, like Christopher Reeve before him, has made the decision to share his very private health issues with the public. This book should not be placed in the category of celebrity memoir, as most, which bear that classification, are worthless, ghostwritten bits of self-gratification. The face of the celebrity on the cover is generally as artificially augmented as the trivia the books contain.<br />One of the more interesting pieces of information he shared was the distribution of funds supplied by The Federal Government for medical research. I may be wrong but I think he was making a point. When you look at the categories and the funds allocated, disparities become readily apparent. If people choose forms of personal conduct that have proven to be fatal, should that be a factor as to what degree they are publicly funded? It may be terribly incorrect politically, but I think it should. If an individual decides to smoke themselves to an early grave why should we be presented with the Chief Executive Officers of the companies who produce a product whose intent is to produce an addiction, an addiction that will kill, saying before Congress, \\"cigarettes are no more addictive than chocolate chip cookies\\"? You want to smoke fine, don't expect taxpayers to subsidize your choice to endanger your health. There are other choices people make, but I am sure to take enough grief on this one observation. Parkinson's and many other diseases that attack people who have done nothing to encourage their arrival, with the exception of perhaps a genetic predisposition, seem to me to have a stronger case for consideration and funding.<br />Mr. Fox has written a lucid, candid, and very readable documentary of a plight he shares with many people. What he has that others do not is celebrity. That he chooses to use his celebrity and forego the privacy that he and his family are entitled to, is not only selfless, it is remarkable. It is true his success was the result of public support for his career. He offered his ability to entertain and we gave our time and money for that enjoyment. I don't think that entitles the public to any insight in to his personal life. Again, that he has made the decision to not only go public but to make medical research for the disease his new profession is remarkable.<br />She is mentioned several times in the book, and whenever she is mentioned her actions or comments are generally crucial to her husband's best interests. Michael J. Fox may count himself a lucky man for a variety of reasons; his wife must be at or near the top of that list. Her part in his story is as admirable and wise as any other.rt for his career. He offered his ability to entertain and we gave our time and money for that enjoyment. I don't think that entitles the public to any insight in to his personal life. Again, that he has made the decision to not only go public but to make medical research for the disease his new profession is remarkable.<br />She is mentioned several times in the book, and whenever she is mentioned her actions or comments are generally crucial to her husband's best interests. Michael J. Fox may count himself a lucky man for a variety of reasons; his wife must be at or near the top of that list. Her part in his story is as admirable and wise as any other.	2002-04-11
1586549:US	53047425	RRGMECI6PA7JA	0060196955	997926972	Patience & Fortitude: A Roving Chronicle of Book People, Book Places, and Book Culture	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Second Installment Of A Classic	As he did with the first volume, \\"A Gentle Madness\\", Nicholas Basbanes has written a book for a very wide audience. \\"Patience And Fortitude\\", goes well beyond any confines that would limit the work to readers interested only in the smallest of details that would be of importance to only the most addicted of bibliophiles. This is a history book, a political science book, a work that discusses education, and a book that addresses the importance of libraries, whether it is the matter in which they are constructed or how political groups attempt to influence History. It is also about the future of books and in some cases the wholesale destruction of publicly owned library inventory and their contents.<br />There is also good news, for the moment The United States still has more libraries than we do McDonalds. Such may not always be the case if some of those responsible for the care of our written history are not carefully watched. The most notorious example of destruction came about in San Francisco during the transition from the old library to the new. There is no question that a library may choose to have a limited number of copies of a given book, but having the department of sanitation collect and then dump tens of thousands of volumes in to the city landfill should be criminal. There is never a shortage of interest in books. When the disposal of books became known, books that had been marked for destruction were offered to the public gratis. One woman came home with over 1200 books.<br />The construction of The National Libraries of England, France, and an attempt to create a new Alexandria library are also covered in great detail. England's new facility may not be a visual treat but as a repository for books, there care and distribution it works. The National Library of France would be funny were it not also ridiculous. Vertical libraries don't work very well and the new French facility has not one but four towers. Dozens of steps must be climbed to reach a common area for the towers, but if you wish to enter you must travel back down another set of stairs to gain access. The towers are made of glass. If there is anything that will guaranty the destruction of books it is sunlight. The French facility was a political project that just happened to involve books. Built as yet another architectural monument to a former president it fails from the selection of the location right through to its layout and high tech book management system that has even locked employees out of the building. A recent novel by W. G. Sebald, \\"Austerlitz\\", took the time to harpoon this facility in great detail.<br />The story of a new library in Alexandria, which is scheduled to open soon, is quite sad. Once the site of one of if not the greatest library in history, the new facility is wonderful but it lacks a key ingredient, books. This may sound like sarcasm but the massive core catalogue that any good library needs much less a great library can no longer be assembled. There are very finite numbers of classical rare books, and other facilities are not about to give them up.<br />Libraries are also critical to the success of any college or university. The author spends a good deal of time discussing the top collegiate libraries in the nation, the difficulties they face with their expanding stock, and how they deal with it. Mr. Basbanes also highlights an insidious political practice as well. UCLA was offered a 1 million dollar grant from the Turkish Government to establish a chair in Ottoman Studies, but it came with the following prohibition, no scholars would be given access to any material, \\"that might document the Armenian Massacres of 1915\\". After having taken a quarter of a million dollars from the Turkish Government UCLA was bombarded with protests and the money was returned. In Turkey education and History may be artificially and selectively constructed and taught, but in this instance at least a library in The United States took the correct path. That it had to be pushed by protests is unfortunate but not as unfortunate as the US Congress that dropped a resolution in the fall of 2000 at the request of a lame-duck president not to pass a resolution condemning Turkey for Genocide in 1915. This is not the only example of gifts with strings attached, but when compared to a string that requests a library be named after the donor of funds, it certainly is the most repugnant.<br />This book will take you around the world to libraries that have functioned for hundreds of years. You will visit monasteries whose collections are one of a kind and are literally irreplaceable. Mr. Basbanes also continues to introduce collectors of books as well as the creators of books from small presses staffed by true artisans. One of the book's highlights is the section dealing with the Pennyroyal Caxton Bible recently produced by the gifted Barry Moser. This work is the first completely illustrated Bible that has been produced for hundreds of years, and the story of its creation is remarkable.<br />Two volumes complete and one more yet to come. Mr. Basbanes has and continues to create a body of work that will become a standard not only for those who love books, but those who enjoy the history they represent and record.th. That it had to be pushed by protests is unfortunate but not as unfortunate as the US Congress that dropped a resolution in the fall of 2000 at the request of a lame-duck president not to pass a resolution condemning Turkey for Genocide in 1915. This is not the only example of gifts with strings attached, but when compared to a string that requests a library be named after the donor of funds, it certainly is the most repugnant.<br />This book will take you around the world to libraries that have functioned for hundreds of years. You will visit monasteries whose collections are one of a kind and are literally irreplaceable. Mr. Basbanes also continues to introduce collectors of books as well as the creators of books from small presses staffed by true artisans. One of the book's highlights is the section dealing with the Pennyroyal Caxton Bible recently produced by the gifted Barry Moser. This work is the first completely illustrated Bible that has been produced for hundreds of years, and the story of its creation is remarkable.<br />Two volumes complete and one more yet to come. Mr. Basbanes has and continues to create a body of work that will become a standard not only for those who love books, but those who enjoy the history they represent and record.	2002-04-09
1597351:US	53047425	RX3F2QRYJ4H0A	0571199542	847178593	The Last Madam: A Life in the New Orleans Underworld	Books	4	77	79	N	N	Colorful And Tragic	When the subject of this book shrugs off being shot in the ankle because she got a 7-carat diamond ring out of the affair, you know this is no ordinary person. Norma Wallace was one of the last Madams' of New Orleans. For more than 4 decades she ran her various houses that were the locations where young men were brought for their introduction to the carnal pleasures of adulthood, where actresses and actors frequently paid visits, and where a good percentage of politicians and law enforcement officers also passed some time. The book is not a glorification of what was at times a brutal existence. The book and the behavior of many is entertaining, but when reality becomes a bit too easy, incidents that were absolutely horrible brought reality back with great intensity.<br />This is a story of a woman who knew what she wanted at a very young age, and who by the 1920's was making 100,000 per year. To survive and thrive during changes in political landscapes she was not only an exceedingly shrewd businesswoman, she was also a grand manipulator of politicians, and law enforcement. She managed to fit in 5 marriages, a relationship with a nationally known gangster, and the creation of a wildly successful restaurant business in with all her other interests. This woman was one of the original practitioners of multitasking.<br />All of this came with a price, the same man who was a gangster might try to kill her one night, her jewelry that was valued at 70,000 decades ago and which she wore daily would make her a target. And for 40 years there was always some new rookie cop or politician that wanted to make his mark by closing her down.<br />The story is wild, amazing and true; the read is almost as fast paced as her life.	2002-04-01
1597694:US	53047425	R1LDVH4B3UJSQJ	0141001763	855770597	Ravelstein (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Simply As A Book	Other than this novel I have read only the recent collection of stories by Mr. Bellow. After reading many other reviews I felt as though if one were not aware of all the parallels of fact and metaphor that this book contains, a person would feel left out of the circle. I hope no one feels this way for even though I read this as a stand alone work without detailed knowledge of the author, his real life friends and their philosophical tilts, the book is a great piece of writing. Saul Bellow is considered one of the great writers on most people's list of favorites, so while knowing all the background may make the book a richer experience; on its own it stands beautifully.<br />This memoir about a writer who cannot write a memoir is full of philosophy, condemnation of anything other than the elevated thoughts of the day, and centers on a character who you will loathe, struggle to empathize with, or perhaps even like. Abe Ravelstein is a man who has made the ends of his life meet by constantly borrowing from one Peter to pay another Paul. When he does comes into substantial funds whatever joy the money gives him is limited as he is terminally ill.<br />There are a few ways a person can use their wealth especially when they know their time is severely limited. Abe becomes a modern day Bacchus; everything he does is to excess. And everyone around him either sits at his knee, loathes him, or manipulates him into a demonstrable token of his affection, like a 75,000 BMW. The exception is of course the would be biographer who sees all of his friends excess and stands by him until the end. This does not stop him from occasionally describing behavior that goes beyond the extravagant to become plain ugly. In Paris he will spend 4,500 dollars on a new sport coat walk to the nearest caf&eacute; and proceed to dribble coffee down the front. He barely notices and when he does is unmoved.<br />Whether this is your first book by Mr. Bellow or not, have no fear. The book is wonderful stuff compared to much of what is on offer even is aficionados of his work may not find it his best.mpared to much of what is on offer even is aficionados of his work may not find it his best.	2002-04-01
1597750:US	53047425	R1CBET9D0MC5OQ	0743212967	486506073	The Jazz Bird: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Sweet Singing Imogene	This is the first work by Craig Holden that I have read; it most certainly will not be the last. I am not familiar enough with the historical basis for this book, so I comment purely as a reader. \\"The Jazz Bird\\", is a wicked book, from a large cast of characters whose loyalty cannot be placed until the book's end, an immense fortune built by prohibition, and the co-star of the book Imogene.<br />Imogene is one of the better female players that I have read in quite some time. If the character in the book bears any resemblance to who this woman truly was, there must be additional books written already, or more will certainly follow.<br />The author reconstructs the 1920's with great detail, right down to noting the Rag Time Piano Music of Scott Joplin. If you recall the music, you may also remember the movie that brought it back when Paul Newman and Robert Redford gave classic performances in, \\"The Sting\\". This work is much darker than the movie I reference, but if the time period appeals to you, the book will as well. Prohibition parties where 100-dollar bills were under the plate of each guest, or perhaps dozens of new cars awaited the guests who stayed the night as gifts. Add to all of this Imogene, daughter of the privileged class who marries the largest rumrunner, systematically destroys all she was brought up to be a part of, and does it with either the greatest calculation, or the most grievous unintended consequence.<br />The book is a classic roaring 20's tragedy that you know is going to happen but Craig Holden brings you there through a series of brilliant characters, and the most circuitous of routes.	2002-04-01
1599009:US	53047425	R3BGS7OIAEDPIA	038548948X	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	4	10	12	N	N	They Love Her Or Hate Her	I read many reviews of this book and other works on this Queen, certainly one of history's more controversial Monarchs. This was the first major biography I had read and I was surprised by the intensity of feeling this woman arouses, she either has enthusiastic admirers or others whose feelings are just as intense but negative. I think this book is reasonably evenhanded, if it does favor one view of the subject I would say the author is more favorably disposed toward Marie Antoinette. This work in no manner is a fawning biography of a person who was without faults. Her failings are identified, but they are not sensationalized.<br />One matter that struck me was the outrageous pamphlets that were printed and circulated about her. Compared to the tabloids of today what you pass at the supermarket checkout is extremely mild. This woman as Queen was accused with graphic drawings of every imaginable offense that came to the printer's salacious minds. This public humiliation that was routine years before she was imprisoned provided fertile ground for the fictions that were heaped upon her at her, \\"trial\\".<br />She certainly may have been guilty of errors but most would seem to be errors of omission rather than conspired strategy. As a 14-year-old semi-literate child she was married to another adolescent and then spent 7 years waiting for the marriage to be consummated. As customary as certain rituals may have been, being required to give birth in front of a crowd is demented. She was accused of having an affair with a certain Duke, so what? If she did not she would have been an exception to the rule. When a King had a favored mistress she was given a place at court.<br />I thought, \\"The Affair Of The Necklace\\", was well documented and put that accusation against the Queen to rest. As to the, \\"let them eat cake\\", comment, I don't believe she was clever enough to utter what was a well-known phrase long before she was even born. When the charges that were leveled at her including crimes against her children, it is clear this crowd that paraded heads about the city was interested in adding hers. Whether she was guilty of any crime was hardly proven, and rarely was there any evidence given.<br />At least from this reading I would surmise that the vilification of this woman was largely invented or spectacularly exaggerated. To the extent she did cause mischief it is hard to identify what it may have been, for distortion and not truth was the currency of late 18th Century France.uding crimes against her children, it is clear this crowd that paraded heads about the city was interested in adding hers. Whether she was guilty of any crime was hardly proven, and rarely was there any evidence given.<br />At least from this reading I would surmise that the vilification of this woman was largely invented or spectacularly exaggerated. To the extent she did cause mischief it is hard to identify what it may have been, for distortion and not truth was the currency of late 18th Century France.	2002-03-31
1602233:US	53047425	R1RWJ5JAB7EW05	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	2	58	63	N	N	Read The Books They Reference	The threats that are described in this book are extremely serious and they deserve serious, accurate, and consistent documentation. This book contradicts itself and gives tabloid phrasing to issues instead of explaining them.<br />Page 166, \\"Since 100 grams of dried Anthrax was theoretically enough to wipe out a small city\\", on page 216 they recounted when a five pound bag of sugar was used as a prop to explain that if the five pounds were dried Anthrax, it would kill half the population of the city of Washington, the nation's capital, or about 300,000 people. They then go on at length to discredit this example. If on page 166 100 grams of dried Anthrax would wipe out a small city, why would 5 pounds of dried Anthrax, or 2.25 Kilograms, or 2,250 Grams, or 22.5 times of their example on page 166 be worthy of their ridicule? On the same page they also state that theoretically 5 pounds would kill the 300,000.<br />Hemorrhagic Fevers like Ebola are incredibly lethal, and the symptoms they create are gruesome. If you are interested in the basics of how this type of disease causes death and massive bleeding, this book will not tell you. It is described as a disease that will, \\"bleed you dry\\", a great tabloid headline, worthless for understanding the disease. It has been suggested that the terrorists who brought down The World Trade Center could have brought some Bioweapon on board with them. Delivery systems specifically designed to spread disease kill 98-99 percent of the load they carry. How likely would it be that the 1 or 2 percent that would survive a device meant to deliver it alive and lethal would have survived the inferno the planes created? The United States and others have improved on the weapons that deliver these pathogens, and while the efficacy is improved no numbers have been shared. Delivery by aerosol would have been possible, but taking down 2 1500-foot high buildings and many others that surrounded them was evidently enough for one day.<br />There are excellent books that are referenced in, \\"Germs\\", that are vastly superior to this work. Some books were written by defectors from the former Soviet Union (mentioned in this book) who ran Soviet production facilities that could make 300 metric tons of Anthrax every 220 days, others by Doctors from The Center For Disease Control who not only worked in Level 4 Biohazard Labs, they also pursued bugs like Ebola out in the field in Africa. \\"Scourge\\", is a recent work that is an excellent history of Smallpox and its eventual, \\"eradication\\".<br />There have been a number of books on these topics, and they seem to break in to two categories, there are those that are written by people who are part of the groups that either produce, track these viruses, or work to create defenses against them. And then there are books like this, that from the bibliography appear to be a summation of other primary sources. The former educate, the latter sensationalize. This is a poorly constructed book that is delivered with an editorial slant.excellent books that are referenced in, \\"Germs\\", that are vastly superior to this work. Some books were written by defectors from the former Soviet Union (mentioned in this book) who ran Soviet production facilities that could make 300 metric tons of Anthrax every 220 days, others by Doctors from The Center For Disease Control who not only worked in Level 4 Biohazard Labs, they also pursued bugs like Ebola out in the field in Africa. \\"Scourge\\", is a recent work that is an excellent history of Smallpox and its eventual, \\"eradication\\".<br />There have been a number of books on these topics, and they seem to break in to two categories, there are those that are written by people who are part of the groups that either produce, track these viruses, or work to create defenses against them. And then there are books like this, that from the bibliography appear to be a summation of other primary sources. The former educate, the latter sensationalize. This is a poorly constructed book that is delivered with an editorial slant.	2002-03-28
1605216:US	53047425	R1FZGH20JJ8MCW	0393321940	743225117	Death in Rome	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Brutal	\\"Death In Rome\\", by Wolfgang Koeppen is characterized by Michael Hoffmann, who both translated the work, and wrote the introduction as, \\"the most devastating novel about the Germans I have ever read\\". This book was written in 1954 and when published caused a massive reaction, almost exclusively negative, for the primary characters were either participants in, or the offspring of the World War II Nazi regime. Published only 9 years after the defeat of The Third Reich, its subject matter was still white hot and equally sensitive. This was during a time when people were trying to put the past irrevocably behind them in the hope that time would provide distance, and distance would erode the world's memory.<br />Everything in this book is at the very least provocative even when read from a distance of 50 years. The author even names his characters to overtly provoke, and incite. Gottlieb Judejahn and the other primary characters are family and obviously share the last name. Gottlieb's possession of the name is arguably the most notorious. He is generously characterized as an unreconstructed Nazi SS Officer whose last name combines the word for Jew with the balance that translates to madness, and weed out. Another name Pfaffrath is a disrespectful name for a priest, and the name Adolf needs no elaboration. The author evens ratchets up the tension when the son (the Priest Adolf) of the unrepentant SS Officer witnesses his father as he fouls a room deep in The Vatican. The author says that as he watched, \\"Adolf Wept\\".<br />These examples are just parts of the setting that surround a bizarre family reunion in Rome. While unfortunate that Mr. Koeppen's work was so suppressed; it is not a stretch to understand why. With the wounds of the atrocities still fresh in the worlds' mind, and with some of the architects still roaming the streets of Europe, this author had the courage to not follow the crowd advocating let's put the past behind us, and to be brutally candid about what the end of the war meant and did not mean.the end of the war meant and did not mean.	2002-03-26
1611873:US	53047425	R2979AZ88GTUDT	0767909186	819136199	You Got Nothing Coming: Notes From a Prison Fish	Books	5	17	22	N	N	He May Not Have But The Reader Does	Jimmy A. Lerner has written a remarkable memoir entitled, \\"You Got Nothing Coming\\". The reader has an enormous amount coming with this brutal, candid, philosophic, and at times outrageously humorous documentary about one man's nightmare. One day Jimmy Lerner is producing financial spreadsheets for a new dot.com company to present to venture capitalists, and within two days he is confined in a cell, on suicide watch, and has been charged with murder in the first degree. The charge he faced would gain him a lethal injection courtesy of the State Of Nevada if he were to have been found guilty.<br />For eighteen years this man was a white collar executive with AT&amp;T, an educated man with an MBA, married with children, and living in what sounds like an affluent suburb of San Francisco. A chance meeting with another attendee at an Alcoholic's Anonymous meeting puts him on a course no one would have predicted. It would be easy to say he should have walked away from this person who he would eventually kill while fighting for his life. Jimmy Lerner was not perfect, he had his flaws, but he didn't deserve the man he called the monster.<br />The bulk of the book is a detailed accounting of his time in prison. He started writing as soon as he had the means, and what he wrote about how he survived is remarkable. Every brutal behavior that has been portrayed as part of prison life is again documented in this book with absolutely none of the edges softened. The humor is often the result of his comparing how corporate seminars that taught him how to achieve and thrive within a mindless corporate culture are applicable to dealing with inmates, some of whom have nothing to lose. When he starts ruminating on what interpersonal skills he was taught to use with a difficult co-worker may also be helpful as he faces countless situations where the wrong word or gesture could bring grave harm or death, it may be dark but it is incredibly insightful and witty as well. The idea of a Jew having an aversion to tattoos that his white supremacist cellie suggests he get is one of hundreds of ironies he ponders that make his writing so wonderful to read.<br />This is also an articulate commentary on prison life. Once you read about what happens to children tried and convicted as adults, what may sound just on television is actually indefensible. Treat a 13 year old as an adult, take away his freedom, get him away from any opportunity to do further harm, no argument. Place that kid in a 5x8 cell where he is abused on a daily basis guaranties one of two outcomes. When that kid gets out he is exponentially more filled with hatred after being used by sadists, or he will wind up as a suicide. Prison and the freedoms it takes away are the punishment. Prison should not be a playground for sadists. Prisons should not be populated with any Correction Officer who has about as much respect for people as some of those who are on the other side of the bars. Prisons should not have entire levels of cells that have raw sewage collecting on the floors.<br />One area that I would have liked to read much more about was how this man could possibly have been charged with murder in the first degree. He was eventually sentenced for voluntary manslaughter, and even that needed clarification. At what point did his actions cross from self-defense, to involuntary manslaughter, to voluntary manslaughter, to murder one? How could the district attorney even bring this man to trial with a murder one charge?<br />An amazing memoir and survival story, and to Mr. Lerner, congratulations on your well deserved parole.ving an aversion to tattoos that his white supremacist cellie suggests he get is one of hundreds of ironies he ponders that make his writing so wonderful to read.<br />This is also an articulate commentary on prison life. Once you read about what happens to children tried and convicted as adults, what may sound just on television is actually indefensible. Treat a 13 year old as an adult, take away his freedom, get him away from any opportunity to do further harm, no argument. Place that kid in a 5x8 cell where he is abused on a daily basis guaranties one of two outcomes. When that kid gets out he is exponentially more filled with hatred after being used by sadists, or he will wind up as a suicide. Prison and the freedoms it takes away are the punishment. Prison should not be a playground for sadists. Prisons should not be populated with any Correction Officer who has about as much respect for people as some of those who are on the other side of the bars. Prisons should not have entire levels of cells that have raw sewage collecting on the floors.<br />One area that I would have liked to read much more about was how this man could possibly have been charged with murder in the first degree. He was eventually sentenced for voluntary manslaughter, and even that needed clarification. At what point did his actions cross from self-defense, to involuntary manslaughter, to voluntary manslaughter, to murder one? How could the district attorney even bring this man to trial with a murder one charge?<br />An amazing memoir and survival story, and to Mr. Lerner, congratulations on your well deserved parole.	2002-03-20
1616859:US	53047425	R342EHO42V2G38	0375507264	700141431	Number9Dream	Books	2	19	29	N	N	First Time	I have probably been introduced to more writers' work through The Booker Prize than any other. I had already read, \\"Ghostwritten\\", which I very much enjoyed, so when this book arrived I had high expectations. Why the people on The Booker Committee chose this book is beyond me, and if this was the first work he had written I never would have picked up the second. These are 400 pages of fiction bordering on incoherent. When the book does stray into prose that is readable, the reader is then rewarded with a host of threads that have no conclusion.<br />Contrary to what has been suggested our hero has no clue who his father is nor where he can be located. We are exposed to this fact through a mind numbing series of daydreams fueled by caffeine and every cigarette brand you care to name. It's difficult to explain just how disjointed this book is. Through a good portion of the book when a storyline starts to unfold we are treated to the experiences of a sentient goat, chicken, and a prehistoric sidekick. Nothing wrong with sentient chickens, but when the chicken in distress is picked up by God on a surfboard, no amount of labeling can legitimize this book. Post modern, surreal, or my favorite, Dickensian coming of age all are just word bytes to cover over the substance that isn't there.<br />The other rationale used for books like this is that the references, metaphors, etc are so subtle that if the book does not appeal to the reader, the reader is the one who is lacking. There are some heavy handed clich&eacute;s that are tossed about including a phone call from a customer to a computer help center that everyone has either been told or has read before.<br />A final word on the goat, this fellow is not only sentient, he is a writer, hence his name goatwriter. Now if this is supposed to be a reference to the use of goats in ancient theatre, specifically tragedies, it is so subtle that it has no meaning. Our goat author also keeps eating much of what he writes and then claiming his fragments were stolen. Some bits and pieces may have gone missing, but our author happily made them part of this work.is fragments were stolen. Some bits and pieces may have gone missing, but our author happily made them part of this work.	2002-03-17
1620519:US	53047425	R32SQCPVMSLRJY	0670910244	576095476	The Procedure	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Timely	Genetic engineering, the mapping of the Human Genome, and Cloning are all intensely debated issues at present. All are generally viewed as parts of the absolute leading edge of high technology. Genetically engineered life forms have been patented, the Human Genome has been mapped, and despite the political and religious protestations, cloning has continued to duplicate ever more complex replicas of life. And while laws are contemplated and passed forbidding the cloning of a human, it is not only likely, but also probable that such research proceeds somewhere.<br />The creation of life by mortal man has been routinely held as the ultimate taboo against nature and deeply held religious beliefs. Harry Mulisch writes in his book, \\"The Procedure\\", of two instances of creation and demonstrates the idea and perhaps the practice is not only far from new, it is centuries old. In the late 16th Century a Rabbi creates a Golem for a King, the procedure for which is outlined in a 3rd Century Text. Then in the 20th Century a Scientist creates a very primitive organic organism from non-organic materials, which gains the name eobliant. A Golem and the primitive organism that is created 400 years later have little in common as final products. The latter is a test tube creation while the former is, well the book will explain.<br />The commonality between these two events is obvious, and if I read the work correctly, the obvious is not what the author intended. The writing is deceptively straightforward to read. The Rabbi has an arguably valid and selfless reason for what he does, our contemporary scientist does not. The author diverges along the way with the tale of Frankenstein, the author and her contemporaries, but writing about an act and practicing it are widely separated issues.<br />Our scientist is also portrayed as being at the very least eccentric. He relates much of his story through letters he writes to his daughter who never lived. While the letters are to her, they are sent to the woman who would have been the child's mother. She left him for he failed her at the critical moment in their relationship, a moment that should not have been an issue for a father much less a man of science, and a man who was manipulating artificial life himself. For all the notoriety his creation has brought him, he gains no piece of mind, and constantly erodes as a person until he is having fictional conversations with a woman that would have been his wife about the cloning of their stillborn child. Cloning is a physical reproduction only, the mind, or the soul, if you prefer, is not replicated.<br />As I mentioned the book can read as deceptively straightforward, and my reading may be completely off the mark. Either way the book is a great piece of work, and a tremendous read. More than one reading would probably be appropriate.sent to the woman who would have been the child's mother. She left him for he failed her at the critical moment in their relationship, a moment that should not have been an issue for a father much less a man of science, and a man who was manipulating artificial life himself. For all the notoriety his creation has brought him, he gains no piece of mind, and constantly erodes as a person until he is having fictional conversations with a woman that would have been his wife about the cloning of their stillborn child. Cloning is a physical reproduction only, the mind, or the soul, if you prefer, is not replicated.<br />As I mentioned the book can read as deceptively straightforward, and my reading may be completely off the mark. Either way the book is a great piece of work, and a tremendous read. More than one reading would probably be appropriate.	2002-03-14
1621588:US	53047425	R2RK0NCOBA1Q0U	1565846974	281230412	Remembering Jim Crow: African Americans Tell About Life in the Segregated South	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Slavery The Sequel	Any illusions about the freedom and equality that were alleged to have been given to African Americans in this country following the Civil War were just that, illusions. The reality of America's version of Apartheid was legitimized in 1896 in the United States Supreme Court with the case of Plessy vs. Ferguson. When the de-facto segregation that Plessy allowed was added to the de jure laws that followed, whatever emancipation had been promised was firmly repudiated. It is even legitimate to go back to 1877 when Rutherford B. Hayes and his party sold out, and swapped the presidency for the removal of federal troops from the south.<br />\\"Remembering Jim Crow\\", is a brilliant collection of first hand accounts of life under Jim Crow by those who were victimized by its laws. A large cast collected these verbal accounts over several years, and they accomplished no less than the preservation of a sinister part of this country's history. A time that W.E.B. Dubois characterized as, \\"living behind the veil\\". Combined with the book, \\"At The Hands Of Person's Unknown\\", which I commented extensively on, these two books, and if you choose the accompanying CD of the interviews, provides a wide, if horrific view of these eight decades.<br />These testimonies are also notable for the speakers who identify by name the people and families that victimized them. This is not ancient history that many would like to forget. These people who survived and speak of Jim Crow are alive, and so a presumption that their tormentors are alive is reasonable. The end of the book includes portions of a documentary that was made as part of this project with National Public Radio. Happily some of the whites that were interviewed in Iberia Perish in Louisiana remember and look with regret on what they did and did not do. Their willingness to speak on the record is admirable. But lest anyone think that all is solved there are also people who went on the record bemoaning their never having enjoyed the privileges that Jim Crow gave whites. A man named Barrow expressed himself thusly, \\"That was awful nice, you know, you'd go hunting, \\"Boy clean those ducks\\", you know, \\"Skin that dear\\", uh, \\"Shine my shoes\\". I believe I could have gone for that. Yeah I think you could have too\\".<br />No Mr. Barrow, no civilized individual from any state could, \\"have gone for that\\". However I am sure that many appreciate your confirmation that even now, ignorance, arrogance, and racism are alive and well.ileges that Jim Crow gave whites. A man named Barrow expressed himself thusly, \\"That was awful nice, you know, you'd go hunting, \\"Boy clean those ducks\\", you know, \\"Skin that dear\\", uh, \\"Shine my shoes\\". I believe I could have gone for that. Yeah I think you could have too\\".<br />No Mr. Barrow, no civilized individual from any state could, \\"have gone for that\\". However I am sure that many appreciate your confirmation that even now, ignorance, arrogance, and racism are alive and well.	2002-03-13
1622492:US	53047425	R386J68KC46FP5	0670894869	271596950	Saul Bellow Collected Stories	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Every Story Deserves A Review	I am stunned that no one else has commented on this selection of short stories by The Nobel Laureate Saul Bellow. It may be that readers are more accustomed to his novels, but to miss these 13 stories and an Afterword by the author is to miss great literature. The writer's comments at the end are deserving of being counted as a separate piece of non-fiction within this collection.<br />While all will chose their own favorites from this collection, it will likely be based on the personal impact a given story has, and not the caliber of the writing itself. The author provides portraits of people and slices of their lives that are uniformly excellent. While it is true that most of the book's contents takes place in Chicago he also steps well beyond the Loop and the State of Illinois to render some of the most interesting of his characters. You will meet Hattie Waggoner in, \\"Leaving The Yellow House\\". This tale set in a remote Texas town reminded me of similar moods that John Steinbeck once created. \\"Him With His Foot In His Mouth\\", begins as an apology for an off-hand remark made decades ago. The protagonist has been driven to write to the target of his quip after being reminded of it by a one-time friend. What begins, as a simple apology becomes a massive, cathartic and rambling epistle that invokes every emotion and so many flaws that are human.<br />Mr. Bellow also produces players that are philosophers, men and women of letters, con artists, opportunists, and portraits of family that range from the humorous to incredibly tragic. It is to some degree a fault to say this is the first time I have read this man's work. It is wonderful as well for there is a large body of his work that is waiting to be explored.<br />His personal comments in the Afterword will likely resonate with all who enjoy excellent writing, and agree that the quantity of books that is offered today bears no relation to the quality. He also shares his thoughts on what it is that great writing competes with for reader's attention, and these comments are as accurate as they are sad. This collection of short, and not so short stories will meet or exceed any collection of similar work you may find.tes with for reader's attention, and these comments are as accurate as they are sad. This collection of short, and not so short stories will meet or exceed any collection of similar work you may find.	2002-03-12
1623474:US	53047425	R34ROUHZ6AVJ0X	0375506128	680902769	I Cannot Tell a Lie, Exactly	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sad That She Is Not Here	\\"I Cannot Tell A Lie, Exactly\\", is a wonderful group of short stories by a writer that did not live to see them published, nor the enjoyment her words would bring to readers. And these stories are excellent not because of the unusual path they took to publication, rather because they are extremely well written. The book is also bracketed by touching tributes by her children.<br />The book contains 16 stories including, \\"Rotifer\\", which when published alone was selected as one of The Best American Short Stories Of 1967, and then was honored by its inclusion in The Best American Short Stories Of The Century. And this was a story that was originally published as a tribute to the writer in a non-literary journal, which makes this book's journey all the more interesting.<br />Virtually all of these tales describe situations that any member of a family will find familiar. Had they been written and published earlier, they would in many instances have been classic stories for the likes of The Saturday Evening Post together with the well-known covers of Norman Rockwell. This is not to say that all her stories are as idealized as many people feel Rockwell's paintings were. Just as he portrayed some of the darker sides of human nature, Mary Gavell touches on nerves that are either raw, or have the probability of developing painfully.<br />Two of my favorites are, \\"The Swing\\", and the story that is also the title of this book. It is a rewarding experience to read these stories that so nearly were lost. That this is the only collection takes nothing away from the work, and for those who take the time to read this lady's words, they will be well rewarded.	2002-03-11
1624275:US	53047425	R1GCUU6SEITXRA	0312278551	326641259	Leaving Disneyland: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Accomplished First Novel	\\"Leaving Disneyland\\", is a debut novel by Alexander Parsons. The book is extremely good first work, especially when the author has tackled an environment he has only read about. He gives appropriate credit to his source for the prison he creates, but if you have read works by true inmates you will be impressed with the authenticity he brings to his novel. It is easy to forget this is a work of fiction.<br />Doc Kane is the man we follow throughout the book. He is on the verge of a parole hearing that will likely lead to his release after 16 years. A new cellmate and some favors are all that stand in his way. Readers that would suggest this tale is clich&eacute;, and the questions it poses rhetorical, have not given the book a fair reading. The book is about much more than a man who faces the trials of possibly leaving prison, only to be tagged with an electronic band and monitored as closely outside of the penitentiary as he was within its walls.<br />The book for me was about the pervasiveness of the jail Doc Kane lives in. Whether inside a 5x9 cell, or walking the streets electronically tagged, he never regains his freedom. The Washington streets he returns to are populated by the same gangs, and the same equally fragile codes of honor that are as lethal while incarcerated or when he \\"freely\\" walks the streets. The daily prison routine is replaced by a parole officer, who has every bit as much control and power, to send him back to prison, as the guards in the penitentiary had to punish him.<br />Work is a condition of parole, but how high are the chances of employment when a job application is filled out? And even if a job is there how much does it differ in mindless routine from the one he left in prison? The friends of 16 years even if they too are paroled are off limits to him as a meeting would send him back inside.<br />And then there are his own perceived demons and they are every bit as real and problematic as any he has faced before. Virtually every diversion, which would be legal for him to enjoy, because of his parole are denied to him. The book is a great commentary on just what being let out of prison means for the vast majority of those who spend time there. This is not about a so-called, \\"Club Fed\\", where white-collar criminals worst issues are boredom and their loss of face in their former world. The latter is often not even at issue; just think about, \\"The Junk Bond King\\".which would be legal for him to enjoy, because of his parole are denied to him. The book is a great commentary on just what being let out of prison means for the vast majority of those who spend time there. This is not about a so-called, \\"Club Fed\\", where white-collar criminals worst issues are boredom and their loss of face in their former world. The latter is often not even at issue; just think about, \\"The Junk Bond King\\".	2002-03-11
1624924:US	53047425	R349G5ROEZRDU	0815607261	407813566	The Committee: A Novel (Middle East Literature In Translation)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Joins A Distinguished Group	\\"The Committee\\", by Sun Allah Ibrahim joins the work of writers including Franz Kafka, Albert Camus, and Fyodor Dostoevsky. The comparison that is most easily drawn is to Kafka's, \\"The Trial\\". While this may be the easiest parallel to draw it suggests this is just a variation on a theme and that would be a disservice to this book and the author.<br />The unnamed narrator first petitions a committee. This group is made of members we are told virtually nothing about. Our narrator only makes vague references to what a positive decision from this committee would mean to him. Whatever his goal, it must be of great value for during his first audience he is not only queried on his knowledge, his is degraded, pointlessly degraded. The similarities to other writings remain in regard to arbitrary and absolute authority; together with the perversions of thought and justice they produce. Unlike, \\"The Trial\\", there is no evidence he stands accused of anything on his initial hearing. The committee after a long delay sets for him yet another task, and when they learn of how he proceeds despite the blockades put before him, the group visits him, with a single member remaining. This shadow is the same individual who so crudely humiliated him before. The treatment again begins with the total invasion of everything that is held private for the individual, with the result that our narrator commits a crime, comes once again before the committee, and receives a surreal sentence.<br />Throughout this fairly brief work the narrator in his appearances before the group, and in his private thoughts often expounds on his theories with seemingly bizarre examples. What becomes bizarre is that in their way his arguments make sense, and this is after Coca-Cola, peanut farming, cigarettes, anti-depressants, and presidential elections explain his thoughts.<br />The sentence our anti-hero receives is described by the publisher as a new realm of satiric surrealism. Whether satiric or satanic, the ending is not one you will forget, and you may likely be drawn to read the work of other writers who wanted their subjects to stand firmly in existential space.ng is not one you will forget, and you may likely be drawn to read the work of other writers who wanted their subjects to stand firmly in existential space.	2002-03-10
1631843:US	53047425	R1MAFIS2C9OD59	0786708964	723656217	Beasts	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Brightened Only By Flame	Eerie fiction, gloom and darkness, with a plot grotesque, unfolding in a lonely location, all describe this work entitled, \\"Beasts\\", and all qualify as characteristics of the Gothic novel. Joyce Carol Oates is a new author for me, but she is not one I will soon forget. This fairly brief work is unnerving at best with its characters that either are, or cross over to the depraved as either victims, or with a vague tacit admission of the willing participant.<br />An isolated college for women, a small group of selected students of poetry, or potential targets is drawn to a charismatic, latently evil instructor of the poetry of D. H. Lawrence. This professor/procurer uses the words of Lawrence to intrude on the privacy of his students and to intimidate them in to sharing their most intimate thoughts and experiences in writing, which then become public during class. If the story stopped here the theme of the young woman with a crush on a professor willing to exploit the same girl is hardly new literary territory. Ms. Oates takes the relationship out of the classroom and office, and transports it to a lonely isolated home. The home is of the professor and his wife, the latter who is a controversial sculptress whose work even even the most liberal viewers of the 1970's find profane, not a task easily accomplished.<br />Several students eventually find themselves at this residence, and despite their experiences and the permanent changes they are marked by, curiosity overcomes all fear and students continue to make the journey. What happens inside the home of the professor and his wife crosses over in to behavior and exploitation that is incredibly cruel. Gothic is almost too bland an adjective for what takes place, and certainly too mild for the permanent damage some victims suffer.<br />Fire plays a prominent role in this tale, whether as the topic of arson, or to sow distrust amongst friends. The ultimate conflagration the writer offers is satisfying and pyric. The book is a fascinating and disturbing read that is unquestionably excellent, if not for all readers.s a fascinating and disturbing read that is unquestionably excellent, if not for all readers.	2002-03-05
1633125:US	53047425	R38KZYBICUSSRE	0345435281	796467564	Vitals	Books	2	7	8	N	N	There And Back Again	On the cover of this book it says, \\"living forever is to die for\\". Whether or not the statement rings true for anyone, it is, if nothing else, an extremely tired, and trite phrase that is more fitting for the tenth sequel of a slasher film. Greg Bear is a better author than this book, \\"Vitals\\". If an author is going to take one of the oldest and well-worn themes, in this case immortality, he or she best have a startlingly new approach. This story does not offer a new perspective and its primary premise is made all the more tiresome by tying it to villains that are among the top two 20th century historical groups that are used when a grand conspiracy is to be invoked.<br />The evil source for this book's villains has been used a multitude of times, and even the harm that is spread, is, at best a variation on a theme. The author casts the crime over so many victims it is impossible to suspend disbelief, and far too many people that would normally be of some importance, like The US President or the heads of a variety of agencies that are rather important to this country's well being, are dealt with in a sentence or two as if they were afterthoughts.<br />The author did provide some novel ideas that could have spawned several books. Instead they are all crammed into this one work that does a poor job of educating the reader to complex biological topics, while expecting the same reader to follow a plot of dozens and dozens of characters, with a more leisurely pace set for the description of what the female characters are wearing.<br />There are also some comments that seem to have just dropped randomly on a page with very little context. What could have been a searing comment about a recent election falls flat, when it should have been quite clever. Even when whatever action pauses and there is dialogue that discusses the morality of the issues at hand, the topic never gets above the most basic of worn concepts. I also think there should be a new law that does not allow writers to place all billionaires in thinly disguised versions of Bill Gates' home. Finally, I do not need to be told a dozen times the brand of cellular phone our hero uses, or the brand of coffee he drinks. Tell me once endorse products somewhere else.writers to place all billionaires in thinly disguised versions of Bill Gates' home. Finally, I do not need to be told a dozen times the brand of cellular phone our hero uses, or the brand of coffee he drinks. Tell me once endorse products somewhere else.	2002-03-04
1635188:US	53047425	R3AZS8FVDTPM0G	0375503242	284653166	At the Hands of Persons Unknown: The Lynching of Black America	Books	5	91	105	N	N	It is, indeed amazing to contemplate so vast a vacuity.	The words above these comments are from a 1920 essay written entitled, \\"The Sahara Of The Bozart\\", by H.L. Mencken. These words and those that followed come as close as any I have read to quantifying what was absent from vast areas of The United States where, \\"Lynch Law\\", was not only practiced, but defended and enthusiastically endorsed until the 1960's.<br />I cannot comment with specificity on the events this book documents. The details are that vile. This book describes ritualistic murder that was routinely carried out from the latter part of the 19th century to the second half of the 20th. This in no way limits the genocide inflicted on blacks for centuries in this country, rather this focuses on particularly barbaric events that on many occasions took place with thousands or even 20,000 or 30,000 spectators. The spectators to these planned, public atrocities would learn of the events from newspapers, and would travel to the scene via free passage provided by railroads. Governors publicly endorsed these murders routinely together with other elected officials, and were largely ignored by the federal government. The 1965 murder of 3 persons working for Civil Rights finally got the attention of Washington, and actually lead to a real trial and convictions. It may sound cynical, but the fact remains that two of the victims were white, and Civil Rights Legislation was popular for the first time following the death of President Kennedy. The early laws that were passed followed on the heals of his assassination when a vote against what the murdered president had started was too risky for even the most committed racists in congress that had repeatedly blocked any form of federal law, including any law outlawing the lynching of citizens. Congress had company, as the legislation had no Presidential support whether it was FDR, or Eisenhower.<br />Men, women, children, pregnant women, and entire families were lynched. Now that word brings to mind a rope and a victim. If those who inhabited the vacuity that Mr. Mencken described stopped at that, their hands would be fairly clean when compared to what repeatedly took place. The rituals that were carried out were limited in their cruelty only by the imaginations of those inflicting the torment. These acts could last for hours prior to ending in a holocaust. When the site had cooled, souvenirs were collected, sold, and displayed in shop windows on Main Street for weeks, or even months.<br />No vile act practiced in medieval dungeons or The Concentration Camps of the Nazis surpassed these public events. These murderous spectacles were memorialized with postcards that The US Postal Service delivered for decades. Often the photographs would show nicely dressed children, wearing white dresses and ribbons and smiling, while within arms reach the remains of a victim were present. Some of this public butchering took place so recently that many of these young children are likely to be alive today.<br />As destructive and demented as these acts were, they ultimately were defeated. This did not come about due to a decline of the perverse ideas of honor. Nor was there change to twisted logic that allowed slave owners to avail themselves of violent assault on their female slaves, which resulted in the production of children that were the same offspring the mobs would speak of when justifying the murder of black men. Mixing of the races was the canard used to justify killing black men, who were innocent of the very act their white killers were often the practitioners of. The vast majority of killings were based on false accusations of sexual assault even when a doctor determined that no such act had occurred. These examinations were just another pro forma step in, \\"trials\\" that would take 8 to 25 minutes from opening arguments to sentencing, and then the handing of the innocent over to the waiting mob outside.<br />Change came about because of incredibly brave individuals that would place themselvesat risk to document the killing and work for its end. Change came about as black men fought and died for this country in World War One and Two only to come home and find that which they fought for did not accrue to their benefit. The US was embarrassed and ridiculed for its hypocrisy-riddled stance when condemning the abuses of Germany in the early 1930's. The Japanese in WWII, distributed information about these racist crimes to populations in the Pacific Rim as evidence of what America would bring. Black men were good enough to fight and die for their country that would not allow them to sit at a counter with whites, drink from the same water fountain, or use the same bathroom.<br />Ida B. Wells brought about change. While a petite four foot six, she was so feared by the defenders of certain states, she fled to continue her work from the north. Thurgood Marshall just survived being killed while working as a lawyer in the South. This country was fortunate he survived, as he became one of the great jurists of The United States Supreme Court. Clarence Darrow, who as a white lawyer would routinely ridicule and defeat those who brought their ignorance into a courtroom when he was present. The numerous people and organizations that forced the Federal Government to step in and crush the nonsense that was practiced in a variety of states is the part of the book that allows the reader to make it through the grisly history. The author points out that there are issues of flying The Confederate Battle Flag on top of State Capital Buildings, or on there grounds, but feels when put in perspective these issues are minor. If States want to continue to display the relic that they claim is a source of pride, let them. It is their choice to remain in, \\"that vast vacuity, that sterile, artistically, intellectually, and cultural Sahara Desert\\", of H.L. Mencken.at risk to document the killing and work for its end. Change came about as black men fought and died for this country in World War One and Two only to come home and find that which they fought for did not accrue to their benefit. The US was embarrassed and ridiculed for its hypocrisy-riddled stance when condemning the abuses of Germany in the early 1930's. The Japanese in WWII, distributed information about these racist crimes to populations in the Pacific Rim as evidence of what America would bring. Black men were good enough to fight and die for their country that would not allow them to sit at a counter with whites, drink from the same water fountain, or use the same bathroom.<br />Ida B. Wells brought about change. While a petite four foot six, she was so feared by the defenders of certain states, she fled to continue her work from the north. Thurgood Marshall just survived being killed while working as a lawyer in the South. This country was fortunate he survived, as he became one of the great jurists of The United States Supreme Court. Clarence Darrow, who as a white lawyer would routinely ridicule and defeat those who brought their ignorance into a courtroom when he was present. The numerous people and organizations that forced the Federal Government to step in and crush the nonsense that was practiced in a variety of states is the part of the book that allows the reader to make it through the grisly history. The author points out that there are issues of flying The Confederate Battle Flag on top of State Capital Buildings, or on there grounds, but feels when put in perspective these issues are minor. If States want to continue to display the relic that they claim is a source of pride, let them. It is their choice to remain in, \\"that vast vacuity, that sterile, artistically, intellectually, and cultural Sahara Desert\\", of H.L. Mencken.	2002-03-02
1642368:US	53047425	R247UP047X0D6F	B00005XA0J	184828204	Books and bidders; the adventures of a bibliophile	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Volume For Book Lovers	A.S.W. Rosenbach is considered one of if not the finest dealer in books, and a noted collector as well. When he entered an auction room other dealers knew they would be left with only what was of no interest to him on that day. He believed that the price of a given book was meaningless if the volume was inherently important, and his decades of success proved that he was correct.<br />This autobiographical work documents a career that is essentially unique and one that cannot be duplicated. To give a few examples, there are 46 Gutenberg Bibles in existence and some of those are fragments or incomplete. In this book he shares 4 separate purchases he made of this holy grail of collecting. In 1926 he paid 106,000 dollars for a Gutenberg, and depending on your viewpoint he was viewed as either the most daring man or he was mad. He discusses in the book that he believed that such a volume would one day command 1 million dollars. I saw a single leaf from this book at an antiquarian bookfair, and the one page was 30,000 dollars. Another amazing bit of history was a telegram that was bought by Mr. Rosenbach. This was the original of the telegram sent by General Grant announcing the surrender of General Lee's Army at Appomattox.<br />As a final example of the reading this book offers Mr. Rosenbach once paid 260,000 in 1911 for the following. The certified copy of The Declaration Of Independence that was sent to Frederick The Great King Of Prussia, together with The Articles Of Confederation Of The United States. The latter was signed by both Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane to make what was an unprecedented acquisition even more remarkable.<br />Mr. Rosenbach also helped to build some of the finest libraries in the world, including The Morgan Library amongst others. His private collection again is an assemblage that could not be repeated today. This is a great book whether you enjoy books, or even history, for this man collected so many written documents that were the written records of this country. The few acquisitions that I mention are a very small fragment of what the book offers.n records of this country. The few acquisitions that I mention are a very small fragment of what the book offers.	2002-02-25
1646961:US	53047425	RWKYV36OR8TDG	0804605777	925678255	Amenities of Book Collecting and Kindred Affections (Essay and general literature index reprint series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	If You Love Books	?The Amenities Of Book-Collecting And Kindred Affections?, by A. Edward Newton is a classic in its genre as well as a book that will be enjoyed by anyone who is interested in the collecting of books, and some of the most noted collectors. Some may question the wisdom of reading about this man?s experiences, as they were collected in this book in 1918. A variety of books have been published in recent years that claim to offer a guide to the collecting of books or the experiences of novice collectors. Building a library of books is not something that is easily done or learned. And a person with a fortune at their disposal acting without guidance will only amass a collection that had it been guided by a trusted advisor would be exponentially more valuable and complete.<br />The curator of the rare book department of a noted college who also was a participant in the latest book by Nicholas Basbanes, ?Patience And Fortitude?, introduced me to this book and two others. Mr. Basbanes is the author of, ?A Gentle Madness?, and will be publishing a third volume to his work that is already considered a modern classic by collectors and book lovers.<br />While the prices and auction results that are listed in this book are very out of date, they still make for great reading, and in some cases may bring to memory a book on a grandparents shelf that today would buy a car or home. If nothing else these old prices show just how much value continues to be placed on collectable books. Mr. Newton lived during the same time that some of those authors whose work he collected were alive and writing. He was a collector of manuscripts, which meant that the author?s original drafts of their work were often available. At one point in the book he laments the appearance of the typewriter and the effect it will have on replacing the hand written original. Had he foreseen the computer it probably would have caused him physical distress.<br />Another area he was an avid collector of is so-called association copies. Like manuscripts these have the rarity that comes with being a one of a kind item. Throughout the book he shares many of the treasures he acquired like a book inscribed from Charles Dickens the father to his son. For people who love late 19th Century Authors, this man not only collected their work, but often knew the writers and their friends. In other instances his collection of Boswell and Johnson?s work may not have come directly from the author to him, but he still was able to collect correspondence and other written material that is now difficult to find outside of museums.<br />This particular book is also wonderful for it has photographic illustrations as well as black and white and color plates as well. If you love books, find as old a copy of this work as you can, and you will have added a treasure to your shelves.sociation copies. Like manuscripts these have the rarity that comes with being a one of a kind item. Throughout the book he shares many of the treasures he acquired like a book inscribed from Charles Dickens the father to his son. For people who love late 19th Century Authors, this man not only collected their work, but often knew the writers and their friends. In other instances his collection of Boswell and Johnson?s work may not have come directly from the author to him, but he still was able to collect correspondence and other written material that is now difficult to find outside of museums.<br />This particular book is also wonderful for it has photographic illustrations as well as black and white and color plates as well. If you love books, find as old a copy of this work as you can, and you will have added a treasure to your shelves.	2002-02-21
1647499:US	53047425	R1S17IHHV6XY0T	0375500138	639072887	The Brother: The Untold Story of Atomic Spy David Greenglass and How He Sent His Sister, Ethel Rosenberg, to the Electric Chair	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Prisoners Dilemma	When thinking of David Greenglass and the hatred his actions have invoked for half a century it seems reasonable to ask, as the author does, why is David Kaczynski who turned in his brother, better known as the Unabomber, not reviled? He knew his brother was likely to receive capital punishment for what he had done. Or how about Barbara Walker who turned in her husband, which then led to her son, being convicted as well, for being willing suppliers of information to the USSR. The Walkers are hardly serving time in a so-called, \\"Club Fed\\", and last I read the Unabomber will either die in prison of old age or execution.<br />The title of Sam Roberts' book is certainly accurate if incomplete. Testimony by David Greenglass absolutely placed his sister and brother in law in the midst of a scenario that would guaranty their conviction. But to be fair, his wife Ruth did not do the Rosenbergs any favors when she testified, and the Rosenbergs and their defense council made decisions that ensured their conviction as well.<br />Greenglass made it very clear that his wife came before anyone in his thinking, including his mother and father. When he came under FBI scrutiny it can hardly be considered a surprise that he either told some things that were true, or when faced with an alternative, he would place the blame on his sister or brother in law. The Rosenbergs did virtually nothing to exonerate themselves or cooperate to ensure they would not be subject to capital punishment. As both husband and wife took the stand and then exercised their right to not answer questions, which may have served to self-incriminate them, when from a practical standpoint answering yes would have done no more harm. It may be a constitutional protection, but I think juries take it as an admission of guilt. And what type of verdict could be expected when the defense lawyer, while arguing that the information at issue was not important, then simultaneously asks that it be impounded to protect its confidentiality?<br />Ethel Rosenberg probably did not deserve the punishment she received. I can only argue probably, for why would a woman who is innocent with 2 young children take positions, which were stated as first, final, and never subject to change? And how could a husband let his wife follow him to the chair? Many of the players in this issue were portrayed as young, idealistic, and foolish. I cannot accept that either of the Rosenbergs believed they would be found innocent. And further, rolling the dice on the sentence Ethel would receive in the midst of a country coming out of one war and was then engaged in Korea against the \\"ally\\" they helped, seems to be stupidity not a calculated risk.<br />The entire furor over David Greenglass and the degree to which he lied is of great interest to me, as people lying and making deals to mitigate their own punishment is hardly unique. Even if he believed with 100 percent certainty that his sister would be executed it was a choice he never even pondered, he and his family came first, period. Virtually any scenario a person may use with immediate family and heinous behavior again makes what Greenglass did less than unique. Parents killing their children, children their parents, spouses each other, it happens all too frequently. And there is a difference between speaking against someone and actually taking their life in person with one's own hands.<br />David Greenglass is not a person I would like to know much less be related to. The same comment holds true for his wife and both of the Rosenbergs. This book may add additional information to the historical record just as the judge at the Rosenberg trial will shed more light in 2026 when his papers are made public. I don't find anything sympathetic about either of these couples. One was willing to do and say whatever was needed to minimize their own punishment, and the other did little or nothing to change their fate.<br />As defined at the trial, the level of activity forguilt was not terribly high, so while of the four involved their actions may have differed widely, the law made little distinction. I don't see any way to demonstrate that Julius Rosenberg was innocent, and his wife was certainly not absolutely ignorant of his activities.<br />The title of my comments comes from a game that is part of game theory. It revolves around the actions of what people involved in the same crime should do for the benefit of all concerned, as opposed to what they actually do. These circumstances and the resulting behavior are fascinating to read about.guilt was not terribly high, so while of the four involved their actions may have differed widely, the law made little distinction. I don't see any way to demonstrate that Julius Rosenberg was innocent, and his wife was certainly not absolutely ignorant of his activities.<br />The title of my comments comes from a game that is part of game theory. It revolves around the actions of what people involved in the same crime should do for the benefit of all concerned, as opposed to what they actually do. These circumstances and the resulting behavior are fascinating to read about.	2002-02-20
1648981:US	53047425	R2IRDBLWI2RZS2	0743203135	916336087	No More Words: A Journal of My Mother, Anne Morrow Lindbergh	Books	4	55	56	N	N	Beautiful Tribute	I have read Reeve Lindbergh's work before in her memoir, &quot;Under A Wing&quot;. I was surprised at her candor regarding her father, and what was equally clear was her fondness for her mother. &quot;No More Words&quot;, which records the last 17 trying and rewarding months of her mother's life, is a tender tribute that is notable for what it includes and for what it omits.<br />The only photograph of Mrs. Lindbergh is the one that appears on the cover. The photograph depicts a young woman at the start of what would prove to be a life as fascinating as it was lengthy. The closing months of this woman's life are chronicled above all else with a great deal of respect. This is a most private family event, and just as the book is devoid of any pictures for the voyeur, the narrative too is informative without taking away any of the dignity of her mother. This would seem to be an obvious manner to write of one's parent, but a person does not have to look far to find books written with sales as the first goal, and exploitation of the subject left unconsidered.<br />Reeve Lindbergh is a poet, she is reflective, and these aspects of her personality provide a narrative that is unique. This book is not simply a diary; it is not a chronological description of the systematic health decline of her mother. It is more of a story that is driven by the limited interactions she was able to have with her mother, and the memories that were either hers or recollections of her mother's life. This is not a sugarcoated story of what was a very trying time. The book is a balanced memoir about how difficult it is to deal with not only the death of a parent, but also the very real difficulties and frustrations that caring for an elderly, ill parent involves. Mrs. Lindbergh had the best care available which took much of the moment-to-moment care off of the family. It did not remove many of the difficulties, and the reader can easily imagine what it would entail to care for a parent with little, or no outside help.<br />This is a very contemplative book that moves at an associated pace., or no outside help.<br />This is a very contemplative book that moves at an associated pace.	2002-02-19
1650760:US	53047425	R2E3YD7X2CDAF7	0802116957	854192655	No Saints or Angels	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Continuity	The theme of countries that were brutalized by Germany in World War II only to then face new masters in the form of The Soviet Union has been written before. Ivan Klima adds a new terrible aspect to this history that portrays those that survived as persons suffering from an even more acute pain, if that is possible. The book is unrelenting in the revelations and histories of characters both alive and dead, and while there is some hope in the novel, it is fairly gray, a deep shade of gray.<br />The author increases the pain his characters must deal with by making them much more than simply survivors. He burdens them with family histories that contributed either to their family's pain, or the pain of their nation. Then there is the complication of the deceptions that one-generation feels is necessary to protect the youngest in the family's line. While well intended and expeditious, invariably it is the wrong decision to make, and the negative consequences it provokes are worse than the original truth. Deception also presupposes that those being mislead are ignorant of the truth, and will remain that way, bad presumption and bad consequences.<br />The author also presents the consequences of lost continuity. In a macro sense the subject is war, arguably the greatest disruptor of history, and on a micro level there are the relationships, or what pass for relationships, that are either fragments of what they should be, are based on false presumptions, or wrongly credited actions.<br />There is a wealth of human drama that takes place in this book as the author displays the results of decisions that may be taken by one generation, resented and hated by the next, and still continue to harm the generations that follow.	2002-02-18
1655608:US	53047425	R14F918UUPMDZ9	0679449248	766888150	Zigzagging Down a Wild Trail: Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A New Perspective	\\"Zigzagging Down A Wild Trail\\", by Bobbie Ann Mason is a great collection of short stories. She has a very unique and clever way of seeing what is presented to all of us, but is only viewed by some, and recorded by even fewer. Her stories are not about fantastically unusual events. Her characters are generally people that many will know some version of, and yet when she finishes rendering their personalities they feel as though they are new.<br />There are 11 stories in the collection, and the titles range from, \\"Tobrah, Thunder Snow, and Charger\\". \\"Tobrah\\", resides at one end of this range of tales, with a daughter traveling to make arrangements for her father who deserted her, only to find that with his final leaving in death he has also left her a half-sister that is younger by decades. Other than her name the child is largely a mystery, and some clues that develop are less than comforting. This story like many that are in the book are left with unfinished issues, the outcome is for the reader to decide. Many of these tales are brought to a conclusion very abruptly, a style that I usually finally annoying. This was not the case with this writer's work, and it may be because the stories themselves are so rich that even left incomplete, the writer has given her audience all they need.<br />Well-known events like The Gulf War are also modified so that it is the husband who has stayed behind while his wife has gone off to war. Superficially the story appears to contain much of the clich&eacute; male thinking one would expect, but pay attention to the detail, and the story is unique and very well done. The character and title of one story, \\"Charger\\", is at times humorous, and at others sad as his and his girlfriend's future are all too predictable. The characters of Charger, who is desirous of readjusting his brain via the use of his girlfriend's aunt's Prozac, is someone you will not forget easily. And his girlfriend who wears skintight snakeskin pants, \\"Like a pair of Boa Constrictors\\", and defines happiness as having lipstick on, may be the most interesting characters in the book.<br />Whatever your interests there is a high probability that Bobbie Ann Mason will provide several stories for you to enjoy.Constrictors\\", and defines happiness as having lipstick on, may be the most interesting characters in the book.<br />Whatever your interests there is a high probability that Bobbie Ann Mason will provide several stories for you to enjoy.	2002-02-13
1656427:US	53047425	R23C2KD7KGFI0T	039578607X	180556494	Audubon's Watch: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great Reading	\\"Audubon's Watch\\", by John Gregory Brown is the first book of his work that I have read, and I intend to read his previous two books very soon. While reading this tale I often thought of the work of Wilkie Collins, one of the great writers of the late 19th century, and the man widely credited with the creation of the modern mystery genre. The Audubon of this novel is the famous artist who documented the birds of America, and while knowing some of the man's history is helpful it is not necessary.<br />A great mystery work maintains the suspense, the tension of the story to the very end. The tale itself sustains and lures the reader throughout the book without the need for blind alleys or misdirection. The facets that I mention can be great fun when used by many authors. Mr. Brown did not use them here, and I think the work is all that much better without the devices.<br />A young woman dies and Audubon is asked to sit watch with the husband the first night following her death. There is a second watch that has three owners, a watch that works or doesn't, a watch that appears to have a mind of its own. A common ritual in this instance has immense importance, for the husband is considered a notorious anatomist/resurrectionist, and Mr. Audubon has knowledge that drives his guilt for 30 years, when on his deathbed he summons the man he sat with that evening. But what is he guilty of, why does Emile, the deceased's husband, make a month long trek dealing with his own failing health to hear what Audubon wishes to say? And what could possibly be haunting Emile for these now past 30 years? The answers are all in the book, and they are not what appear to be obvious or even high probability predictions. The author is brilliant at manipulating what he shares and how he shares it, so that what you may take as a conversation among characters is something very different.<br />The author seems to play with the reader's need to know and the reader's willingness to make presumptions before the tale is complete. The effect he produces is really marvelous and entertaining. When he digresses from the specifics at hand to share the imagery of a roaring fire, a hurricane, and the flashing blades of the cutters of the cane as they work in his inferno is great reading.<br />John Gregory Brown is another writer that seems to have yet to be discovered by large numbers of readers. His work will now be on my reading list going forward.efore the tale is complete. The effect he produces is really marvelous and entertaining. When he digresses from the specifics at hand to share the imagery of a roaring fire, a hurricane, and the flashing blades of the cutters of the cane as they work in his inferno is great reading.<br />John Gregory Brown is another writer that seems to have yet to be discovered by large numbers of readers. His work will now be on my reading list going forward.	2002-02-13
1660657:US	53047425	RO2M2A8PG18NK	0312263953	177340027	Slightly Chipped: Footnotes in Booklore	Books	1	39	46	N	N	Strike Two	\\"Slightly Chipped\\", by Lawrence and Nancy Goldstone is the second offering on what is supposed to be their continuing exploration of the world of book collecting. However, just as in their first book, \\"Used And Rare\\", the topic of books serves to provide these people with a continuous stream of targets for abuse. Please do not take to heart their description of what it is like to collect books nor of what type of people you will likely encounter while doing so.<br />To give you an idea of how far this book routinely strays from the alleged topic, what follows are direct quotes. The first takes place at a gathering at a library amongst a small group who are present to learn about very rare books. Any one of the volumes could be the subject of an entire book, but books are just a tangent in this brief and shallow memoir. While they do not hesitate to name the person they describe, and also list his occupation, I offer just a fragment out of the respect for privacy they show no concern for. \\"He was the kind of person whom Hollywood casts as the computer junkie who uses the Internet to lure young women to his apartment for..................\\" This is what they choose to describe as books from nearly a millennia ago are passed around the table. A book by William Morris is part of the evening's discussion. Mr. Morris produced some of the most prized limited editions of the late 19th Century. Here, that is almost a footnote when compared to his personal life, which rambles on for pages.<br />These people cannot even visit a bookstore that I know well, without adding this bit of irrelevant mean-spirited commentary on Torrington CT. \\".thus providing the grimness and depressedness of Torrington for that much longer\\". Canton is described as, \\"hardly a town at all\\", and they quiz the owner on why he is located in such a difficult location. Our authors have moved to Fairfield CT. since their last book, an area that allows them to name drop the famous and wealthy, one of whom had to change homes because the light at The Yacht Club shone into his bedroom. What any of this has to do with books is beyond me.<br />Collecting books is a wonderful hobby. Shop owners generally will spend vast amounts of time, sharing their knowledge and love of books. I have been present when booksellers have taken a personal check for several thousand dollars on the final day of a show, from a person they never met, hours before they were to fly across the Atlantic to their shop in England. As a group, book collectors and dealers are wonderful people who share what Author Nicholas Basbanes has called, \\"A Gentle Madness\\". The authors do not enjoy this state of mind, rather, like the title of this book what rests upon their shoulders may be slightly chipped, however a large portion remains firmly in place.to change homes because the light at The Yacht Club shone into his bedroom. What any of this has to do with books is beyond me.<br />Collecting books is a wonderful hobby. Shop owners generally will spend vast amounts of time, sharing their knowledge and love of books. I have been present when booksellers have taken a personal check for several thousand dollars on the final day of a show, from a person they never met, hours before they were to fly across the Atlantic to their shop in England. As a group, book collectors and dealers are wonderful people who share what Author Nicholas Basbanes has called, \\"A Gentle Madness\\". The authors do not enjoy this state of mind, rather, like the title of this book what rests upon their shoulders may be slightly chipped, however a large portion remains firmly in place.	2002-02-09
1661003:US	53047425	R1UDTI7T40X62S	0375421556	534301075	Red Dog	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Charming	Louis De Bernieres has written some marvelous literature. \\"Red Dog\\", is a wonderful true story about a dog that befriended a good portion of Australia, and has been memorialized with a bronze statue as well as other books. Faithful readers of this author will likely be disappointed if they expect another sweeping novel. This short story does not appear to have been planned, as it unfolds with crisp episodes in the remarkable life of this canine. It is extremely unusual in that the book has been illustrated with what appear to be etchings. Illustration has sadly become the domain of primarily very expensive, limited edition, small press books.<br />This is not a child's book, perhaps for young readers in Junior High, but not for young children. This is a book about adults and how a remarkably charismatic canine changed their lives. This is not a fairly tale, it includes the realities of very trying circumstances and the people who pioneer the way in this extremely difficult environment. When it gets hot in the USA warnings suggest certain groups stay indoors. When it gets hot down under, warnings are issued for gas tanks that are prone to explode when exposed to the sun!<br />I think it is great that an author who has established himself as an accomplished literary writer would have the courage to step well away from what has worked for him repeatedly. I was reminded of some of John Steinbeck's work that centered around animals, both his own and fictional. If John Steinbeck can make the change I believe it is safe for other accomplished authors to explore unfamiliar genres, and they do not deserve to be punished for doing so. This is especially the case when the results are so worthwhile. I was going to give this 4 stars but I stepped it up to 5. The book was punished and I wanted to even out what is a brief but entering read.	2002-02-09
1661964:US	53047425	R51LEHJ53I06L	0375758593	850912388	Red Gold: A Novel	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Best Read In Order	I read the paperback edition of this book, which lead me to read this sequel prior to reading the first book. There is no location on the outside of the book that explains this is a sequel. The positive news is that the story is self-contained and while it references the past it does not rely on it for this book to read well. I did read the first book, \\"The World At Night\\", and except for the dates the book is still enjoyable if partially compromised by having been read out of sequence. I don't see why a simple notation could not have identified the book as a sequel.<br />Alan Furst writes about a narrow by eventful time from 1933 to 1945. His books are meticulously accurate to the point they would pass inspection by many readers of history. The author takes an unusual step at the end of his books by sharing with readers his sources for the novels he creates. This is not done in an academic bibliography or a blizzard of footnotes, rather he writes conversationally about what he reads, and what he suggests as reading for those who are interested.<br />Our former film producer Jean Casson has transformed from a man without a positive idea of what he supports, to a man who now seems to get in the midst of everything. He also has lost any illusion of safety as he was taken to visit the Gestapo, and their interest in him has not declined.<br />Casson's relationships with actors and other support personnel for his pre-war movies brought him in contact with a variety of political agendas that were of little interest to him at the time, and that now have become relationships that can get a person killed for real or imagined activities. His uncertainty about what constituted honorable conduct, and what loyalty means in wartime were all explored in the first book. In this sequel the lines have at once become all to clear, even as they are vague. Is a friend's politics prior to the war a reason to help them, to look the other way, or to promise to maintain silence in return for his own safety?<br />In the first book Jean made a decision that set his future decisively in one area, and as the war progresses his environs become all the more lethal, and the reliability of relationships all the more questionable. There seems to be no end to those who would befriend him for his help, the question also remains how many of the same would turn him in without a moments thought.<br />Alan Furst once again has written a fine book, and I look forward to the final two that are to be published later this year.r his own safety?<br />In the first book Jean made a decision that set his future decisively in one area, and as the war progresses his environs become all the more lethal, and the reliability of relationships all the more questionable. There seems to be no end to those who would befriend him for his help, the question also remains how many of the same would turn him in without a moments thought.<br />Alan Furst once again has written a fine book, and I look forward to the final two that are to be published later this year.	2002-02-08
1662342:US	53047425	RBB019LV40O2K	0374291950	108238831	The Wolf Pit	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A Matter Of Style 3.5 Stars	\\"The Wolf Pit\\", by Marly Youmans is a beautifully rendered, passionate and poetic account of primarily two individuals and their lives during this country's civil war. One is a mulatto slave woman, the other a soldier for the Confederate Army. Through these two people the author recounts a wide range of familiar events and cruelties that were a part of this conflict. The two never meet with the exception of an intermediary that knows both individuals, the latter are either somewhat aware, or ignorant of the other's existence. Whether you enjoy this novel will largely turn upon how much you enjoy the style of the writing and the presentation.<br />I had trouble engaging this book. Events take place in the past, present, and are recalled through a diary and memories that you will either enjoy or you will not. The principle characters embody every conviction and contradiction the war produced, from the visually apparent mixed parentage of Agate, to the Confederate Soldier Robin who questions the war as he fights it, and as he endures a graphically horrific time both on ship, and as a prisoner of war in Elmira New York. The author lets neither side claim virtue nor purity of motive. Whether events takes place in Virginia or New York, the condemnation of both sides is clear.<br />There are portions of the book that were brilliantly written, a passage about a marble statue and its placement struck me as particularly poignant. However in general the book was a bit too poetic, reflective, and almost mild even as the most horrific acts were described. There is no question the author is a talented writer, the issue is one of her style and how well it works for you.	2002-02-08
1662517:US	53047425	R3U0UT6IUV7UFH	0375420908	875097955	Flights of Love: Stories	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Not What I Expected	This is the first book I have read by Bernhard Schlink. Based upon this initial exposure to his work, I look forward to reading other books he has written that are being translated for publication in the USA. \\"Flights Of Love\\", is not a collection of sentimental love stories. None of these 7 tales qualify as a Hallmark Card Moment. All 7 stories have males at the center of the issues/conflicts, and the concepts of love that are explored vary widely. Several of the stories are about the lack of love, love that has missed its opportunity because of active or passive neglect.<br />The situations Mr. Schlink explores are at times extremely volatile. One of the best stories, and the more traditional, centers on a relationship between two young people. Beyond this one fact the author lights a match and holds it precariously close to a very short fuse. The young man is German and Christian, while his girlfriend is Jewish with a family that lives in New York that was directly and savagely victimized by The Holocaust. Fifty years have passed since the end of the war, but time will never heal this wound, and this couple is in the middle of conflicting philosophies. The idea that sons should not be held responsible for their father's or grandfather's sins is an idea that is embraced in theory. However in practice, her family and friends see him as German first just as his family notes she is a Jew, and rapidly wind up in conflict between the necessity of never forgetting, and the feeling that they are forever cursed as Germans. This all sounds very familiar until the boyfriend makes the decision to convert. He also makes a decision to have a procedure that any adult male would visibly wince at the thought of. This decision and the events that follow make the story unique and worth reading.<br />\\"Girl With Lizard\\", may sound a bit odd as a title. However the author takes you through decades of strife that is caused by the painting that is the title of the story, and brings it to a conclusion that is poignant without appearing to be just a clever sleight of hand. In, \\"Sugar Peas\\", the author again takes the familiar concept of a love triangle and literally changes its shape, abruptly interrupts the narrative, and then delivers an ending that I don't believe most readers will see coming. I do believe most readers will find the ending a satisfying one.<br />These are great stories of varying length that all are worth reading, and will likely cause you to add a new author to your list of people to read.o a conclusion that is poignant without appearing to be just a clever sleight of hand. In, \\"Sugar Peas\\", the author again takes the familiar concept of a love triangle and literally changes its shape, abruptly interrupts the narrative, and then delivers an ending that I don't believe most readers will see coming. I do believe most readers will find the ending a satisfying one.<br />These are great stories of varying length that all are worth reading, and will likely cause you to add a new author to your list of people to read.	2002-02-08
1663626:US	53047425	R2OM756MFCTGU1	060960810X	466687802	Ubiquity: The Science of History . . . or Why the World Is Simpler Than We Think	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Ubiquity Versus Generalization	Firstly, it is important that I qualify my comments by stating that I read this book as a layperson. The book is very well written for those who don't have advanced degrees in theoretical physics, math, or adjoining fields. In, \\"Ubiquity\\", Mark Buchanan sets out to demonstrate that there is a, \\"natural structure of instability woven into the fabric of our world\\". The book then covers a wide range of human events, events where man and nature share influence, and where nature, in theory, acts alone. He presents the concept that that all of the mentioned tend to organize into critical states, and that at some unpredictable point they will pass their point of stability and become unstable. He uses events that range from the incident that touched off World War I, to forest fires, and traffic congestion to demonstrate the premise.<br />The fundamental problem that I had while reading the thesis was accepting that there are events that we have never been able to predict, and the statement that there will never be a method for prediction in the future. I have read enough science texts to know that, \\"never\\", is not only a very strong word, it is an absolute, and a very tenuous position to take. Scientists are constantly revising what is believed to be true, and everyone knows the traps that lie when stating absolutes. There are several categories of events that are measured and graphed in an effort to demonstrate commonality among seemingly diverse events. In certain given situations there does appear to be anecdotal evidence regarding, for example, how often a given war will occur based upon the previous conflict and its size.<br />The mathematical results that are graphed do in fact look similar, but I never have understood that proof of a theory could be an, \\"almost\\". Graphs and numbers may be similar, but how far apart can the numbers be to disqualify a theory stated in absolute terms, i.e. never?<br />Science and technology are forever finding ways to surmount barriers that were once thought to be absolutes, or hurtles that never could be overcome. And while predicting an earthquake certainly appears to be a fantastically difficult task, I don't understand how never can be applied to the problem. One does not have to go very far back in history to find statements by recognized experts that absolutely dismissed the idea of the mass utility of a computer. The idea that hundreds of millions of choices would be made by a machine that is portable and sits on your lap did not even qualify for science fiction.<br />The book is fascinating reading, and perhaps I have missed the mark. I still would suggest that anyone who is inquisitive read the book, as it is well worth the time invested.that were once thought to be absolutes, or hurtles that never could be overcome. And while predicting an earthquake certainly appears to be a fantastically difficult task, I don't understand how never can be applied to the problem. One does not have to go very far back in history to find statements by recognized experts that absolutely dismissed the idea of the mass utility of a computer. The idea that hundreds of millions of choices would be made by a machine that is portable and sits on your lap did not even qualify for science fiction.<br />The book is fascinating reading, and perhaps I have missed the mark. I still would suggest that anyone who is inquisitive read the book, as it is well worth the time invested.	2002-02-07
1663769:US	53047425	R1NMTXJI8TTI0A	0375758585	403242172	The World at Night: A Novel	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Part One Of Two	\\"The World At Night\\", is actually the first of a pair of books that tell the story of Jean Casson, a former movie producer who is faced with finding a way to survive the onset and extended occupation of Paris in World War II. France was not only divided into parts by the Germans, it was further sub-divided by a variety of groups that had their own agenda. Jean tries to maintain his life, and protects those he cares about, all the while coping with what it means to be a patriot.<br />Alan Furst writes about a narrow by eventful time from 1933 to 1945. His books are meticulously accurate to the point they would pass inspection by many readers of history. The author takes an unusual step at the end of his books by sharing with readers his sources for the novels he creates. This is not done in an academic bibliography or a blizzard of footnotes, rather he writes conversationally about what he reads, and what he suggests as reading for those who are interested.<br />In this first book Jean Casson will take part as a photographer during the short-lived French defense. He eventually finds himself taking on a task he believes will help France through his aiding the British. This is not a character that has a desire to be heroic; he seems to just want to find his place. Questions of what is honorable, and what constitutes loyalty constantly shadow him. In many ways he is the personification of the nation he lives in. He is conflicted to the point of pondering whether a barber who continues to cut hair during the war, including that of the German occupiers is a collaborator. At this level the question may appear simpler than the so-called larger issues, but the philosophical issue is the same.<br />Jean is given the opportunity to escape to England and continue to work in some manner for France. As he makes his way to The English Channel he continues to torture himself with issues both political and personal. His final act and the justification for it will surprise many, and seem appropriate to others. Whatever you may feel at the close of the book, you will feel your time has been well spent.seem appropriate to others. Whatever you may feel at the close of the book, you will feel your time has been well spent.	2002-02-07
1674784:US	53047425	RAZ68C2HZAO4Q	0226310302	768660263	The Measure of the World: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	For all times, for all menCondorcet	\\"The Measure Of The World\\", by Denis Guedj, is a historical novel of a 7-year quest shared by two men and their assistants to realize what Condorcet spoke of with the words at the start of these comments. Their goal was nothing less than the establishment of the true measure of the standard meter. Messrs. Mechain and Delambre spent over seven years, one beginning at Dunkirk the other in Barcelona, triangulating all that lay between them until the meridian had been measured. Before it was over one would nearly die, and many of their peers would fall to the revolution and the likes of Robespierre.  While they fought the outdoor elements their colleague Lavosier was establishing the weight of the standard Kilo in a bathtub of distilled river water he had run through sand.<br />As remarkable as the achievement itself was, the time during which it was carried out could hardly have been worse. The work began with the recommendations of King Louis who would meet the guillotine long before the work was complete. Other figures and revolution would hamper progress as Talleyrand, Robespierre, and Napoleon all made their presence known. Almost daily the men were accused of being spies, royalists, sanscoulettes, sorcerers, revolutionaries, and traitors. Their targets and platforms, critical to their work, were constantly destroyed, at times for firewood, at others because the structures were believed to be military signals.<br />Mr. Guedj's book is about the factual establishment of the most widely used measures in the world. And while he had access to the letters, notes, and diaries of the men involved and members of various scientific societies, there was no day-to-day narrative to be followed. The book also strays from the primary effort and includes a great deal of history, which was critical to the main expedition. The time that included the, \\"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\\", in 1789, through Bonaparte's coup d etat in November of 1799 are remarkable periods in human history. The author blends the famous task that was carried out while always keeping in perspective the events that hindered more than helped the monumental completion of the task.<br />The methods and the instruments used were very complex, and while the author does not presume the reader will have a grasp of the math or instruments, he does provide an excellent appendix with illustrations. Even a cursory review greatly enhances the read, and the more time taken to learn the methodology, the more fantastic the accomplishment becomes.<br />The fruits of these labors are still in a vault that is opened yearly. On the final Friday in September, the 3 necessary keys are brought to open the vault and the platinum meter and kilogram are viewed, their temperature taken, and then closed off from any influence that could alter their shape for another year.ds in human history. The author blends the famous task that was carried out while always keeping in perspective the events that hindered more than helped the monumental completion of the task.<br />The methods and the instruments used were very complex, and while the author does not presume the reader will have a grasp of the math or instruments, he does provide an excellent appendix with illustrations. Even a cursory review greatly enhances the read, and the more time taken to learn the methodology, the more fantastic the accomplishment becomes.<br />The fruits of these labors are still in a vault that is opened yearly. On the final Friday in September, the 3 necessary keys are brought to open the vault and the platinum meter and kilogram are viewed, their temperature taken, and then closed off from any influence that could alter their shape for another year.	2002-01-29
1676656:US	53047425	R30KPIYV289XLE	0684816059	817304676	About Town: The New Yorker and The World It Made (First Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great History And Principle Profiles	\\"About Town\\", by Ben Yagoda chronicles the majority of the 80+ years, \\"The New Yorker\\", has been contributing its unique journalistic culture to everyone, including, \\"The old lady in Debuque\\". Mr. Yagoda's book stands out from many books that have been offered to readers about the magazine for while he certainly is aware of the contributions the magazine has made for over 8 decades; he does not seem to be in awe of it or the people to the point it affects his writing. He clearly admires the magazine, but this does not stop his including a wealth of information that documents the eccentric personalities that shaped the magazine. Some may not find the notes flattering, but he objectively shows some of the magazines famous quirks without committing the blasphemy of a young Thomas Wolfe.<br />The list of writers who either became major or occasional contributors, reads like an amalgam of winners of the highest literary awards that have been offered. The list of those names repeatedly rejected expands the list even further. The book contains dozens of examples of the famous rejection letters that often are almost apologetic about turning down a piece of work while always writing in the first person plural. Having a piece selected by, \\"The New Yorker\\", was often considered the ultimate indicator that a new writer had arrived, that he or she had entered the pantheon of the magazine's literary legends. This was true even if the work accepted for publication may not have appeared for months, or even several years. The reception of the envelope stating a writer's work had been admitted was all many authors needed to have their work given unique value and cachet, publication was a bonus.<br />Mr. Yagoda also spends a good amount of his book on the cartoons, their artists, and the painful process that started with an idea only to have to run a gauntlet to be published. As hard as this path may have been, the scrutinizing that a written piece received is almost beyond imagining. It is understandable that first time contributors would have their worked scoured and polished, but when some of the 20th Century's finest writers nearly drew blood over commas the action within the building must have been spectacular. There is a story of one writer who sat outside the editor's office for almost 5 hours over the issue of a single comma. This World War I trench warfare standoff continued until the early hours of the next morning. The editor capitulated, but noted to the writer, \\"you are still wrong\\".<br />The story of this fascinating magazine could fill many volumes. If your starting place for gathering an overview of this institution, its editors, staff and writers, is this book, you will have chosen very well. Mr. Yagoda has written a great tribute to those he has chronicled.It is understandable that first time contributors would have their worked scoured and polished, but when some of the 20th Century's finest writers nearly drew blood over commas the action within the building must have been spectacular. There is a story of one writer who sat outside the editor's office for almost 5 hours over the issue of a single comma. This World War I trench warfare standoff continued until the early hours of the next morning. The editor capitulated, but noted to the writer, \\"you are still wrong\\".<br />The story of this fascinating magazine could fill many volumes. If your starting place for gathering an overview of this institution, its editors, staff and writers, is this book, you will have chosen very well. Mr. Yagoda has written a great tribute to those he has chronicled.	2002-01-28
1677657:US	53047425	R2SQVYF2W08TAK	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One Book I Would Love To See As A Movie	This is only the second time I have read and enjoyed a Carl Hiaasen novel. The last book I read brought to mind a Quentin Tarrentino Floridian Pulp Fiction. This book is an even better candidate as the entire storyline is populated by a uniform group of players that all rate at various levels of strange. Mr. Hiaasen has been writing for a newspaper for 25 years, so with a writer for a newspaper as a protagonist, credibility is not an issue.<br />Our outspoken hero has been demoted to writing only obituaries as the result of a candid stream of comments about the new owners of the daily he works for, when he spoke at a shareholders meeting. The new owner's first name is Race, and our reporter wonders out loud while speaking with him if he was called Master Race as a child. The death of a lead singer in a band, so named as to not be printable here, dies while scuba diving, a readily accepted accident that leads to a torrent of events that starts reading more like an espionage thriller. Hovering in the background is a side story of revenge that is almost as sweet as the type once written by Alexander Dumas.<br />Clio Rio is the wife of the deceased. Conjure how a Clio Rio with zero talent would appear in your mind, and then imagine her crafted by a writer of Carl Hiaasen's talent, and you are at the beginning of outrageous characterizations.  Her producer is, I promise I am not kidding, a male who has waist length hair and has named himself after a shampoo. The result is Clio Rio with her producer Loreal. Sounds absurd, well it normally would be, but Carl Hiaasen is an extremely talented writer with a wit that often borders on angry. Our intrepid hero also makes a personal security guard of Clio's into a patched-eyed pirate. His weapon is a frozen lizard that until called to do battle as a not so blunt instrument had been residing in the freezer.<br />If you have not read this man's work he is certainly worthy of you reading time.	2002-01-27
1678299:US	53047425	R20T1DTXQRDYUD	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Michael Eisner May Not Like It	\\"The Millionaires\\", is my first exposure to the work of author Brad Meltzer. It took me a bit longer than usual to get in step with this writer's prose, but once I did, the reward was very much worth the extra time. The financial event that begins as a 3 million dollar sleight of hand is not only believable, it is a small amount of money when compared to actual frauds and thefts that have taken place in recent years. Even when our protagonists find that their 3 million is much more than they presumed, the number that is ultimately used is well away from the real world billion dollar fiascoes that have taken place.<br />The book moves at a brisk pace from the start. Much of the cadence of the book is non-stop repartee between the two principals characters that also happen to be brothers. This was where it took me time to adjust. Initially there is just too much of this sibling banter, but the reader will get used to it, and to be fair much of it is very funny. The only downside the author has created is that much of the humor is based on very recent events, movies, etc, so the material will become dated and perhaps vague to readers in the future. Everyone remember what a NOC List is?<br />This book is of the genre of the average individual who manages to outwit and often outfight players they have no business surviving an encounter with. There are times when you are asked to accept that The Secret Service is fairly inept as the brothers routinely make short work of agents and their skills. If these agents were guarding The President, we would have a revolving door to The Oval Office.<br />The author brings his book to its climax deep within a well known venue. As a very familiar setting, Disney World is as well known a landmark as one could hope to choose, but Brad Meltzer takes us literally under the kingdom of magic, not unlike pulling the curtain away from the famous wizard who lived in Oz. His Disney World is a place of computers that notify the shops when rain is approaching so umbrellas are set out for visitors to buy. And visitors are not so much entertained as they are manipulated. His park is not a cynically savage one; it is one that is shown for the profit machine that it is.<br />For good measure there are some slick high tech toys, and a novel security keypad that I enjoyed, that played a part in solving a series of mysteries. This author has all the tools to become a major player in his chosen genre. For now he appears to still be in the opening acts of what will surely be a long writing career.s approaching so umbrellas are set out for visitors to buy. And visitors are not so much entertained as they are manipulated. His park is not a cynically savage one; it is one that is shown for the profit machine that it is.<br />For good measure there are some slick high tech toys, and a novel security keypad that I enjoyed, that played a part in solving a series of mysteries. This author has all the tools to become a major player in his chosen genre. For now he appears to still be in the opening acts of what will surely be a long writing career.	2002-01-27
1682617:US	53047425	R1Y7BOK2WS2DAC	1573229164	322503556	In Our Strange Gardens (English and French Edition)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Could Be A Tough Sell	How do you decide if you have received enough enjoyment, gained knowledge, or accumulated whatever is important to you from a given book? \\"In Our Strange Gardens\\", may bring the issue to mind whether it has arisen before or not. Michel Quint offers a very poignant tale in a very small book with even fewer pages. Unless you read French you must cut the book in half, for the book shares the story twice with the reader, once if you do not read French. What appears on a page, with generous white space, can be covered with a 3x5 card.<br />The story works not because it is unique and not due to the unusual number of trap doors that open with regularity as the story closes. It works because the author really does give the reader some very real dilemmas to ponder, and a final twist that will decide whether there was one surprise too many.<br />The author places his characters in a situation that any definition of what would be described, as normal behavior is absent. War can be the setting for countless examples not only of horror and atrocity, but also of humanity, courage, and selfless sacrifice. Left alone, the inclusion of every revelation asks a great deal of the reader. If one decision is taken away the entire story still is a description of remarkable behavior. It also would be less of a task to quantify. The actions by 2 people at the close could then be viewed as pragmatic if painful on several levels, or heroic, or patriotic. But this requires that one event not take place. When viewed in its entirety the one decision was too much for me to suspend disbelief. I will admit that such a story could be true, but when put on paper it becomes a bit of a leap.<br />I very much liked the book. I came to my opinion only after thinking about the story, and that is what a good piece of writing should do. That I did not like every bit does not diminish the worthwhile read it was. For me if there were one less twist, the story would have been one of the better very short stories I have read. Even with the element I did not care for, the book is worth the time, and just worth its price.ies I have read. Even with the element I did not care for, the book is worth the time, and just worth its price.	2002-01-23
1699015:US	53047425	R3PB3JAO3DPRJ	038541580X	989227982	Prisoner's Dilemma: John von Neumann, Game Theory, and the Puzzle of the Bomb	Books	5	112	112	N	N	Directly Related To What You Already Know	The enjoyment, or perhaps the utility you'll find with this book, will be directly related to how much you know about Game Theory prior to this read. This book spends, as much time on history and biography as it does on what Game Theory is about, so this work would seem to be most appropriate to those who are new to the material. I had only basic understanding of Game Theory from other books I had read, within which this field of study was mentioned, so for me the book was very worthwhile. The historical and biographic aspects of the book were not new, so there were of less interest to me.<br />Math need not be a passion for this book to be understood and enjoyed. The various games that are explained and, \\"played\\", for the reader actually utilize little in the way of math. Game Theory in practice is about the number of participants, the choices they have, how the games should rationally be played, and how there are played when people replace theory. The results of these games are applicable to daily life, whether it explains how a network will decide the placement of their commercials, why a person will stand in a line of unknown length, or pay more than the true value of an item (like a dollar bill). Peoples behavior often crosses from the irrational to the absurd, and many of these games will point out courses of action almost all readers will have taken at one time or another, when the rational decision was the opposite of what they chose to do.<br />The book is also a good primer for further reading on Bertrand Russell, John Nash the subject of the movie, \\"A Beautiful Mind\\", and John von Neumann, who many considered the most brilliant man alive during his career, and many other great scientists of the 20th Century. There is also review of the development of both the atomic and hydrogen bombs, and the very surprising groups of people that either supported their development and use, and those that were diametrically opposed. There is also some discussion on how Game Theory was and is used to make decisions on a global scale, and also where Game Theory falls short of some of its initial promise.<br />You will most likely enjoy following \\"The Prisoner's Dilemma, The Stag Hunt, The Dollar Auction, and So Long Sucker\\", the last of which often was alleged to have spouses leave the scene of the game is separate cabs. Any one who is inquisitive will enjoy the book, and may be motivated to pursue a variety of its topics further.me Theory was and is used to make decisions on a global scale, and also where Game Theory falls short of some of its initial promise.<br />You will most likely enjoy following \\"The Prisoner's Dilemma, The Stag Hunt, The Dollar Auction, and So Long Sucker\\", the last of which often was alleged to have spouses leave the scene of the game is separate cabs. Any one who is inquisitive will enjoy the book, and may be motivated to pursue a variety of its topics further.	2002-01-10
1699922:US	53047425	R2KVDMB87Y2MTR	0151005060	370162323	The Riddle of the Compass: The Invention That Changed the World	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Device Is Much More Reliable Than Its History	Mr. Aczel has written a good-natured narrative that attempts to assemble some form of history of the compass that bears even the lightest scrutiny. \\"The Riddle Of The Compass\\", borders at times on humorous as the author takes us to the small Italian port that proudly displays the inventor of the compass larger than life in statue form. This is all fine for the tourist trade but the man who is immortalized in stone, upon examination, becomes a bit suspect. For the truth is, the name on the statue is not one that can be found, the statue bears the likeness of a man that no one even claims to have seen at any point in the last 6 centuries, and when examined at all it becomes readily apparent that the statue is as accurate as the idea that \\"Flavio Gioia\\" had anything to do with the invention of the compass. And so begins, \\"The Riddle Of The Compass\\", by Amir D. Aczel.<br />The only issue that is not in dispute is that the compass is one of the pivotal inventions that man created. While navigation of the seas had been taking place for centuries with no such device, the compass not only greatly expanded the amount of travel that could take place, but also the efficiency and the safety with which it was undertaken. International trade, exploration, and the building of empires all were facilitated by the device that appears to have been first discovered in China. The book speculates as to how the physical appearance of the compass developed, how the wind rosettes evolved, and how the compass was physically spread across the globe. Even with the high probability of China as the origin, the author allows that the discovery may have taken place more than once and in ignorance of any other's invention.<br />The book also has an autobiographical aspect that is nearly as interesting as the primary subject. As a young man Mr. Aczel had experiences onboard ships that would make any insurance company blanche, however they make for great reading. Overall the book is a fun read, if not as involving as his previous works like, \\"Fermat's Last Theorem\\" or \\"God's Equation...\\"t as involving as his previous works like, \\"Fermat's Last Theorem\\" or \\"God's Equation...\\"	2002-01-10
1704333:US	53047425	R15BMR8LJRV2GD	1580050239	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Opposing View	I seem to be the odd person out in that I liked this book. This is not a book that will cause controversy by laying blame on those who survived, or even more unacceptably on those who perished. This is a memoir by a woman who was qualified to be on the mountain. She raised sponsor money to make the attempt possible. She was not someone with more personal wealth than judgment that simply wrote a check for a thrill seeking adventure.<br />Scott Fischer was an extraordinary mountaineer according to any book that I have read. He invited Lene Gammelgaard on the expedition, and also was interested in marketing his company in Europe via this woman's summit attempt. This woman was not a paid journalist; she was not the person who wanted to turn her climb into a media circus with a major American Network. If the expedition had not become a tragedy I doubt most non-climbers would even know her name. This was hardly the case with several others who were on the mountain at the same time. Lene summitted Everest, she survived the storm, she assisted others when they needed help, and she left the mountain with her body intact. One of the reasons for the last note is that she lacked the ego, or stated differently, had the good sense to talk to those who had climbed Everest, to inquire about what was most appropriate to bring, what their on the mountain experience had taught them. Far from being a sign of weakness it is an endorsement of her good judgment. Asking Anatoli Boukreev about the protection he uses for his hands on summit day is the kind of thinking that I would look for in a fellow climber. I would not want to be following those who were lugging satellite phones, computers and other nonsense to make daily appearances on national television.<br />This is a book about her experience from well before she ever stepped on a plane to the Himalaya. It is a very personal book, and her style of writing together with her philosophies of life may not read like a thriller, however the facts of what happened in May of 1996 need no embellishment. To me these are factors that brought her to the top and back down safely. This woman is no thrill seeker, she is not deluded about what an attempt on Everest means, and she shared her experience, she did not write a book embellishing the horror of an event that requires nothing more than a statement of facts. She also refrained from taking apart the conduct of other climbers. She was not shy about expressing her opinion, however she was generally on the mark with her thoughts. And finally, far from taking the Sherpa guides for granted, she repeatedly spoke of them as critical to her success and her survival.<br />For me, this was one of the better books I have read about that tragic May 1996 expedition.e facts of what happened in May of 1996 need no embellishment. To me these are factors that brought her to the top and back down safely. This woman is no thrill seeker, she is not deluded about what an attempt on Everest means, and she shared her experience, she did not write a book embellishing the horror of an event that requires nothing more than a statement of facts. She also refrained from taking apart the conduct of other climbers. She was not shy about expressing her opinion, however she was generally on the mark with her thoughts. And finally, far from taking the Sherpa guides for granted, she repeatedly spoke of them as critical to her success and her survival.<br />For me, this was one of the better books I have read about that tragic May 1996 expedition.	2002-01-07
1705743:US	53047425	R18Y5RA2V4Y3A5	0762411244	487216157	Danny Boy: The Legend Of The Beloved Irish Ballad	Books	4	7	11	N	N	The Writer Is Why	This is an entertaining, albeit very brief essay on the 155-word ballad this writing documents. Mr. McCourt has an extremely engaging wit that he has transferred to paper several times before. It is this talent and the commentary it provokes that makes this worth a reader's notice. There will be very few who will need much more than an hour to absorb the book, and were it not for the humor, which is primarily off the main topic of the song, this very brief volume would have never come to pass.<br />\\"Some believe the only thing the Irish are serious about is saying goodbye\\", is a typical aside that leads to another anecdote by Mr. McCourt. He does give a brief background of the history of the music, and the almost 100 different sets of lyrics that have been set to it. The real surprise is for those that don't know who actually wrote the famous words. If the truth is as presented, I imagine it will set off a variety of hostilities. Before you read the book, take an informal poll, and note what country is associated with this song. I would hazard the results will be very consistent. Then you may pick up this book.<br />How much value you place on bits of Irish humor will decide how you feel after reading this work. At 104 very small pages that are often partially filled with verse the reader must value a good laugh like a diamond. For the time that passes from start to finish, from first page to last, is very brief indeed.	2002-01-06
1709727:US	53047425	R25J5VGZA4NDVS	0060394455	325593509	The Family: A Novel	Books	3	66	74	N	N	An Extra Star For Honesty	\\"The Family\\", is a three star read, however a fourth star for honesty is valid. This book was not finished prior to Mario Puzo's death, and so was finished by Carol Gino. This fact is stated on the front of the dust jacket. The reason I make such an issue of this is that other authors who have left uncompleted work still have books published after their death that they did not finish, and no mention is made. Carol Gino also includes an Afterword that explains the origins of the novel, the reason it was not written prior to other of his works, and her own trepidation in regard to completing the book.<br />Mr. Puzo was evidently fascinated by the time period covered in this book, and specifically with the Borgia Family. He had traveled to The Vatican prior to his death, which continued to keep this novel alive, if not a first priority. The reason for the book not being his most urgent task is also explained, and I believe readers will find the causes interesting.<br />Carl Gino was with Mario Puzo for 20 years, so it is reasonable to accept she knew him and his work very well. She is also an author in her own right, so again she was qualified as anyone to attempt to complete what Mr. Puzo left undone. I always have thought that completing another author's work is basically an impossible task. \\"The Family\\", will not rank as the best work ever to carry Mr. Puzo's name, however the book clearly was his creation.<br />The issue I had was that the book went on longer than the story required, so it read as though Carol Gino was trying not to leave anything out, as opposed to editing the tale so that it had a brisk cadence, a nice sharp pace that would have been consistent with all the intrigue of the story and the style of Mr. Puzo's other work. The book contains 4 main story lines and several secondary tales as well. The Borgia Pope and his 4 children take center stage, and the quest to unite Italy is the book's theme. The battles that span most of Italy and even the Island of Elba should read at the pace of military battles and the campaign they entail. The cadence is just not there, and this is most evident when Cesare conquers Elba in a matter of a few hours and a handful of pages in the book.<br />Mr. Puzo clearly loved this topic as he had feelings about all the Borgia Family members, \\"Lucrezia was a good girl, Cesare was a patriot, and Alexander a doting father\\". Mr. Puzo felt the Renaissance Popes were the first, \\"Dons\\", and that Pope Alexander Borgia was the greatest Don of all.<br />The time period is a fascinating one, and if you adjust your expectations, the read is still very worthwhile and better than many offered at local bookstores. Carol Gino clearly gave a valiant effort to complete this work and she should be commended for the result. Trying to follow in the path of a writer of Mr. Puzo's stature has got to be a daunting task, I am glad she accepted the challenge.d of Elba should read at the pace of military battles and the campaign they entail. The cadence is just not there, and this is most evident when Cesare conquers Elba in a matter of a few hours and a handful of pages in the book.<br />Mr. Puzo clearly loved this topic as he had feelings about all the Borgia Family members, \\"Lucrezia was a good girl, Cesare was a patriot, and Alexander a doting father\\". Mr. Puzo felt the Renaissance Popes were the first, \\"Dons\\", and that Pope Alexander Borgia was the greatest Don of all.<br />The time period is a fascinating one, and if you adjust your expectations, the read is still very worthwhile and better than many offered at local bookstores. Carol Gino clearly gave a valiant effort to complete this work and she should be commended for the result. Trying to follow in the path of a writer of Mr. Puzo's stature has got to be a daunting task, I am glad she accepted the challenge.	2002-01-03
1713761:US	53047425	RN7E8RIPB63K	1564782158	453906898	Best of Myles (John F. Byrne Irish Literature Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant	Flann O'Brian is absolutely one of the greatest practitioners of language. This collection of his work, \\"The Best Of Myles\\", is some of the finest writing I have ever had the pleasure to read. Gaelic, English, French, German, and Latin, are 5 languages he writes fluently. He is the personification of all that is famous of Irish Wit. There appear to be few topics he did not comment upon or release a withering appraisal with pinpoint precision.<br />Mr. O'Brian wrote for a daily newspaper until his death in 1966. The volume and quality of the written material he produced is amazing. This 400-page book is one of five that are available and that I intend to read. There is virtually nothing about his personal history in this volume, so hopefully there is a biography in print documenting the time he spent learning and practicing his craft. The only downside to this book is that some is in Gaelic with no translation, and there are many articles that will seem to exist in isolation if the reader does not have some knowledge of Irish History. Even if these commentaries were removed, the balance of the work would still be a remarkable literary performance.<br />Some of the best pieces were his comments on the affectation in so many facets of daily life. And his specific attacks on, \\"bores\\", and all the pretensions of the world of modern art, and those who would pretend to posses knowledge of which they are bereft. He creates institutes and foundations and companies dedicated to servicing frauds and exposing the truth. Much is for pure fun, but like all humor contains truth. He offers the services of a company that will come to the home of any illiterate with a library, and his people will either rummage through your books for a pittance, or for a more substantial sum, will dog-ear pages, write brilliant marginalia, and leave tickets and programs to various cultural events as though they were misplaced bookmarks. And for those who have the funds, books will receive forged inscriptions from their authors, and letters of thanks to the book's owner for their help with a particularly difficult passage.<br />This book came at the end of 2001 for me. I hate lists of the best of the year; however nothing I have read this year surpasses this book, absolutely nothing!riptions from their authors, and letters of thanks to the book's owner for their help with a particularly difficult passage.<br />This book came at the end of 2001 for me. I hate lists of the best of the year; however nothing I have read this year surpasses this book, absolutely nothing!	2001-12-31
1714316:US	53047425	R2BFNTKYJRE9BD	0375410716	565162123	Old Men at Midnight	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Great Trilogy	This is the first work of Mr. Chaim Potok's that I have read. He has produced a prodigious library of work in fiction, non-fiction, and children's stories. It is for others to judge this work as it relates to the body of his efforts, however as a first reading experience I very much enjoyed it.<br />\\"Old Men At Midnight\\", is a loosely connected series of three stories that are related through the presence of one common character. In the first novella, \\"The Ark Builder\\", Ilana teaches English to a young man who not only survived the Holocaust; he was the only person to survive from his village. While she teaches him a new language of words, he also shares his experiences silently with his tutor's young sister via the sharing of drawings they exchange. The young girl's pictures are full of color, while the young man's depict deep and very painful memories. He appears to share what he cannot speak of with a peer via images with a child too young to understand the horror of his youth.<br />The second tale is, \\"The War Doctor\\". This in many ways is the most disturbing story. It comes across as a familiar history lesson at first, however once Ilana, who is now a graduate student, has this man place his life as a NKVD officer on paper, he becomes as much a monster as the man he served without question until fear for his own life caused him to run away. Stalin's Russia is no less familiar that Hitler's Germany, however Mr. Potok finds a manner to bring across the near insanity that is required for a person to do the bidding of a monster like Stalin. For unlike Hitler, Stalin spread his death for decades. He also depicts a man who partitions what he believes he was involved in; versus the atrocities he believes he took no hand in. The story culminates in the historically factual, paranoid witch-hunt Stalin invented against, \\"The Doctors\\", as he neared the end of his run as Satan.<br />The final story is arguably the most interesting. Ilana is now an acclaimed author who moves next to a professor who is struggling with his memoirs. In this final story, \\"The Trope Teacher\\", the perceptions of this aged man, what he sees and what he believes he sees are in constant motion. Ilana acts at times like a muse, and at other moments a harsh task master, while in the background the professor's wife lies in bed awaiting an, \\"unnatural death\\", that became another form of indiscriminate evil in the late 20th Century.<br />There are all manner of authors and books to experience. You will have a task finding a more worthwhile pen to read.s next to a professor who is struggling with his memoirs. In this final story, \\"The Trope Teacher\\", the perceptions of this aged man, what he sees and what he believes he sees are in constant motion. Ilana acts at times like a muse, and at other moments a harsh task master, while in the background the professor's wife lies in bed awaiting an, \\"unnatural death\\", that became another form of indiscriminate evil in the late 20th Century.<br />There are all manner of authors and books to experience. You will have a task finding a more worthwhile pen to read.	2001-12-31
1714741:US	53047425	R33ETCOPUS5UCQ	0618143327	604369740	Almost	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Appropriate Title	3.5 Stars<br />This is the first book that I have read by Ms. Elizabeth Benedict. \\"Almost\\", proved to be an accurate description of the reading experience. I liked the book, however I wanted to like it more, and I frequently was on the cusp of what proved to be another great moment that sadly was not extended. The book begins with an unlikely Viagra alternative in the form of anti-depressants. There is nothing insensitive about her use of the medication or the depression it can help. She does turn the idea of being depressed, adds the medication, and turns one person's trial into another's extended delight. It is all done with good taste, and seems to set a very funny dry tone for what is ahead. Unfortunately it is merely an appearance like many other clever moments that never cohere long enough throughout the read.<br />The primary character suffers/endures as many novel and discomfiting human experiences in a few weeks than most of us will have in a lifetime. She is in the middle of what she believes is a divorce that may or may not be, and her, \\"boyfriend\\", is the father of 4 adopted children, whose spouse is in a constant care medical facility in a coma. In the midst of this she finds her sort of husband is dead, she may feel responsible, and her gay neighbor offers a continually escalating number of thousand dollar bills if she will marry his boyfriend so he can get a green card. If this sounds like a good deal of activity, what I have mentioned all takes place within the opening portion of the book, and while the pace does not stay quite as frenetic, it can not be described as slowing down much more than a bit either.<br />So off to the scene of her husband's death she goes. The thinly veiled island that was her home plays host to either the blue bloods of summer, or the hearty, Yankee, islander long descended from those who once chased whales. And once she reaches the island, matters really become strange.<br />As I read my comments I wonder again why I didn't like this book more. I certainly would not discourage a person from reading this work, for what barely missed for me may be a literary find for you.like this book more. I certainly would not discourage a person from reading this work, for what barely missed for me may be a literary find for you.	2001-12-30
1714870:US	53047425	R15JMMHWZK7X32	1576738493	832352791	The Lady of Arlington: The Life of Mrs. Robert E. Lee	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Her Own Book	3.5 Stars<br />I was attracted to this book as a result of reading, \\"April 1865\\". I found General Robert E. Lee to be a particularly fascinating person, both militarily and in his personal life, and so a biography of his wife seemed to be an appropriate progression. I had never read material on this historical figure, so this books promise of the inclusion of her diary for the first time was also an attraction. The book was less than I had hoped for, while Mrs. Lee certainly held a unique place as a result of The Civil War and her relationship to George Washington, this book did not seem to justify its necessity.<br />Mrs. Lee like many women of the southern wealthy families lost virtually everything she ever called her own as the result of the war. She also was a beneficiary of the provision of a new home, and a more rapid return to a form of normalcy due to her husband's appointments, and then her son taking his father's place as a college president after the war. This was a return that was measurably longer for other families. The transition she did not make with her husband was the progressive acceptance of what had happened, and acknowledging the new reality that post war America would offer to those of the losing side of the conflict.<br />Mrs. Lee came from a family that was very progressive with regard to abolition and many other issues typically credited to The North. Unfortunately these thoughts did not carry through the war, and when compounded by her illness and the confiscation of the family homestead, she spent the balance of her life growing progressively angry. The US Government did return the title to her Arlington home after her death, and after it had thoroughly been destroyed as a family home. This home was also the site of many of George Washington's belongings, including the bed he had passed away in, his carriage, silver, literally rooms of possessions. This estate that had been the calling place of successive presidents and dignitaries like Lafayette was turned into a deforested piece of land, a squatter's village numbering several thousand people, and a national cemetery that encroached to the edge of her families graves.<br />The offerings from the diary are fairly slim in their variety and information they share. They are deeply personal notes of a devout Christian woman, however they do not offer great and original insight to her life.<br />This book is about much more than Mrs. Lee; it could have been called, The Families of Arlington. There is much that is of interest regarding her relations, and details of General Lee's correspondence, however she alone does not fill this book. Other work has been written about Mrs. Lee, and has received high praise; a reader might be better served to read other work prior to setting out with this offering by Mr. Perry.afayette was turned into a deforested piece of land, a squatter's village numbering several thousand people, and a national cemetery that encroached to the edge of her families graves.<br />The offerings from the diary are fairly slim in their variety and information they share. They are deeply personal notes of a devout Christian woman, however they do not offer great and original insight to her life.<br />This book is about much more than Mrs. Lee; it could have been called, The Families of Arlington. There is much that is of interest regarding her relations, and details of General Lee's correspondence, however she alone does not fill this book. Other work has been written about Mrs. Lee, and has received high praise; a reader might be better served to read other work prior to setting out with this offering by Mr. Perry.	2001-12-30
1717876:US	53047425	R30QN7WIGB2TLJ	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Great History And Catalyst	Jay Winik manages to not only convey a fairly sweeping overview of The Civil War, he also presents his narrative in a format that will likely spur the reader to additional reading on the war itself, and the major players involved. \\"April 1865\\", is largely a compendium of biographies on many people you would expect, and many others that may be new. The author also relates the very complex ending to this nation's civil war, as opposed to the singular event at Appomattox that often serves as the focal point for the close.<br />His book concentrates primarily on the events of April 1865 which included not only the beginning of several distinct cessation of hostilities between widely separated armies, but also the assassination of President Lincoln that could not only have ignited the war once again, but also the unprecedented constitutional crisis his murder presented.<br />So much history turns on the actions of an individual or small group. General Robert E. Lee literally was able to end the war based on his word and the respect that the other generals that lead the balance of The Confederate Armies placed in him. He easily could have sanctioned a number of alternatives that could have kept a guerilla war active for years. General Grant was also a key to the successful close of the war. This is a man who history routinely dismisses as a dunce, however his actions at Appomattox were brilliant. These two commanders set out the terms for peace on their own, a concept today that would be unthinkable. And because of the actions of these two men, the balance of the armies had the precedent to frame their terms for the end of the fighting.<br />I will read much more about these men and this country's most destructive war. The easy answers to complex historical events have over simplified this war and so many of the activities that took place. The most poignant moment in the book occurred at the very end in Richmond, when a black man approached the rail to receive communion. Prior to the war no person of color would dare approach until all the white parishioners had taken communion. No person made a move to join this man who was exercising a new freedom he never should have been denied. One man stood and joined the first, and as he had done so many times before, Robert E. Lee led.Prior to the war no person of color would dare approach until all the white parishioners had taken communion. No person made a move to join this man who was exercising a new freedom he never should have been denied. One man stood and joined the first, and as he had done so many times before, Robert E. Lee led.	2001-12-28
1731208:US	53047425	R1YJRQ6NKWK3ZP	0684872811	859633611	Silent Night: The Story of the World War I Christmas Truce	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Confirms Human Nature	Mr. Stanley Weintraub's, \\"Silent Night\\", documents the exceptional events of Christmas 1914 amongst the trenches of World War I. This war was the conflict that revealed the true horror that modern warfare made possible. This was a war that killed 6,000 people every day for nearly 52 months. This was trench warfare when men died by becoming consumed by the mud that was routinely knee deep, and often deep enough to consume a soldier entirely. The book is very good; the only reason for the missing 5th star was due to the counter-factual history the author offered at the book's close. What if scenarios are always a dicey leap to make, and I found several of the author's entirely implausible.<br />When the reader learns about the cessation of the fighting that took place by the soldiers on the field, in spite of orders to the contrary, and you read of their posting mail for one another, helping to bury the dead together, and sharing Christmas dinner in genuine friendship, for a moment you think, \\"how exceptional an event\\". This is after you accept these interactions took place, that the men who had killed each other's comrades then buried them together, broke bread, and played soccer. The photographs in the book show the men who had been doing their utmost to kill each other standing together and sharing the holidays.<br />These were the men on the front lines, the men who did not decide to wage war, rather they fought for their nation, their own sense of duty, and because that was what they were sent to do. Those higher placed in the chains of command wanted the fighting to continue, they feared that the men would not fight after treating each other as humans, as people, as men who had no desire for more war, whether German, English, French, Irish, and many others. Simple signs saying, \\"we no shoot, you no shoot\\", literally brought the war to a halt along long stretches of the front. However it did not last, because it could not last, and measures were taken by the officers to see that this fraternization with the enemy would not happen in 1915, 1916, 1917, or 1918. Soldiers on either side were threatened with a court martial and a firing squad for treason, subsequent Christmases had planned constant shelling so no one would repeat the moments of humanity that took place on that first Christmas of the war.<br />I expect that there will be a variety of opinions about what took place, how important it was, and why anyone bothered. For the reality is, that this was a brief respite when sanity held sway, when the human foundations of these countries made their own decisions, the generals and the politicians had nothing to say, they were ignored. In the end it was like when a cancer falls into a remission. There is no question it will return; it is only a matter of how soon. This was the case with these soldiers. For a brief moment of the war they put down their weapons and treated each other with mutual respect and conducted themselves with honor. But even as the improvised soccer matches took place, both sides improved their fortifications, and brought up additional war material knowing that the interlude was just that.<br />As horrible as the war had been, the fighting resumed and decimated a generation. When enough time had passed and a new generation was born, arms were once again taken up, and the slaughter began again, and the second world conflict was even more repulsive than the first. Humanity found new methods to plumb the depths of evil. What these men did was and is admirable, however it was an exception to longstanding rules. For just as the fighting was stopped, it once again began, a generation was slaughtered, so there was a pause, and then the slaughter began again.<br />This is a fascinating story, however in the end what should we take from it? What is more difficult to comprehend, that men will slaughter strangers, or that they will come to see their commonality, their sameness, and then shake hands, return to thetrenches and slaughter faces that have names?trenches and slaughter faces that have names?	2001-12-16
1732146:US	53047425	R2AD24CZ2PZRU1	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Visionary	Not many can lay claim to creating a result that is not only a first, proves that which was thought to be impossible was not, and to have their accomplishment remain as awe inspiring today as it was centuries ago. I read the soft cover version of this book so I don't know whether the hardcover offers the same photograph. The inside of the back cover shows the dome as it looks today, even after I had read the book and all the dimensions of the dome it described, the photograph still took me by surprise. The sheer scale of what was built is as breathtaking, as it is beautiful and audacious.<br />The dome of Santa Maria del Fiore in many ways remains unmatched in the engineering feats that were accomplished with its construction. Modern technology and materials have created domes for sports parks that dwarf the span of the dome in this book, but none match it in beauty and none will stand for the almost 600 years this dome has stood.<br />This is a fascinating story that does not require that the reader be an engineer. There are illustrations that show some of the methods used, and while the book would benefit from having many more, the layperson can grasp the immensity of the undertaking. Vastly oversimplifying what Brunelleschi accomplished was the construction of the largest span of open space with no interior support while it was being built, and a building that did not require the giant flying buttress appendages of cathedrals like Notre Dame in Paris. A dome traditionally was prevented from destroying the building it rose upon by the use of massive exterior supports. A dome by its nature pushes down and outward, no one have ever conceived a dome of this magnitude that could be constructed, much less be completed and remain standing for centuries.<br />In addition, since none of the traditional scaffolding was in place Brunelleschi had to invent methods for raising countless tons of stone to the dome's starting point 170 feet above the ground, or approximately the equivalent of a 17 story building today. When the dome was completed a lantern that would require the raising of one million pounds of stone was to be raised over the opening, or oculus at the dome's highest point. The story of the dome is worth the book, however the author includes the history that took place while it was built, the politics, the wars, and the rivalries. A read most anyone would enjoy.equivalent of a 17 story building today. When the dome was completed a lantern that would require the raising of one million pounds of stone was to be raised over the opening, or oculus at the dome's highest point. The story of the dome is worth the book, however the author includes the history that took place while it was built, the politics, the wars, and the rivalries. A read most anyone would enjoy.	2001-12-15
1733907:US	53047425	R2S75U1942X56D	0375758275	894188613	The Polish Officer: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Another Good Book	This is the second book I have read by Mr. Alan Furst. Happily, Random House Publishing is going to backtrack and bring earlier novels by this talented writer to readers. To date, Mr. Furst confines his novels to a relatively brief period of history, from 1933-1945. It is also a period that continues to provide massive amounts of information for historians and writers of historically based fiction. What I particularly liked about this work is that it focused on a Polish Officer, and his work after Poland was attacked and partitioned by Russia and Germany, and then overrun once again by Russia.<br />Poland lost 18% of its population during WWII, a higher percentage than any other nation. The damage Poland suffered, and the resistance movement it fought throughout the war is less well known than other stories, and less documented in historically based fiction. Mr. Furst explains at the end of the book the resources that he uses to bring his characters to life. He tells what are true stories or amalgams of true stories about those that never made a great name for themselves, and garnered the fame that accompanied such notoriety. His characters are often those who fought on after their countries had fallen, living a day-to-day existence that often ended in an unmarked grave, or a cellar with its attendant horrors. The risks they took were compounded by the methods they used to fight and survive. They wore no uniform, they had none of the protection, however scant, that a uniform would bring. If they went missing it was noted, and then only for a moment.<br />My interest in the topic helped to overcome what shortcomings the book does have. The book begins on a fairly definitive note, and then reads as though the reader is occasionally checking in with Alexander de Milja. Just as he is forced to move from Poland to France, Spain, and then Poland again, and other locations, the book jumps as well. The problem is the reader does not always jump with Alexander, often it seems as if we bump into him by chance. The book is filled with character vignettes, some are so fleeting that they are barely made note of before they are gone. The character of Alexander is fairly well explained and detailed, however even his fate is truncated almost in mid sentence. The book reaches no conclusion, and unless there is to be a sequel, it never will.<br />This is not the stronger of the two works I have read, however I will continue to read the books that are to come, for even when the author may not be writing at his best, he is still very, very good.s as if we bump into him by chance. The book is filled with character vignettes, some are so fleeting that they are barely made note of before they are gone. The character of Alexander is fairly well explained and detailed, however even his fate is truncated almost in mid sentence. The book reaches no conclusion, and unless there is to be a sequel, it never will.<br />This is not the stronger of the two works I have read, however I will continue to read the books that are to come, for even when the author may not be writing at his best, he is still very, very good.	2001-12-13
1734331:US	53047425	R1MSXZK9BE6I3Y	0375407561	580961678	Embers	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Grand Rediscovery	The good news is that a substantial body of work from Mr. Sandor Marai of Hungary has been found once again, in a manner of speaking, and for those who love brilliant writing, the Publisher Knoph is translating his work into English. His novel, \\"Embers\\" is one of the better books I have read this year.<br />An old castle in The Carpathian Mountains is the setting for what approaches a monologue. The mood of the book is consistent with another who hailed from these mountains as Vlad The Impaler. The book is not a horror novel, rather a disturbing psychological thriller that explores what is truly at the heart of an issue after it has been examined for over 4 decades. Coincidentally the age of the author when he wrote the work, and the time that expires between one dinner between the closest of friends and its sequel, are both 42 years. The book is remarkable as he writes of the view of life from the perspective of people in their 8th and 10th decades of life, and the prose reads as authoritative and appropriate. It reads like a man who has lived twice as long as the author had lived when he penned this work. The writing is wise.<br />Mr. Marai takes a familiar theme that would normally result in rapid responses from those involved, and instead suspends any conclusion for over 4 decades. He presents two boys that grow up together and form bonds that are so absolute, there is nowhere for their friendship to improve. Their bond is complete; their backgrounds are polar opposites, which may give rise to the fall. There is an intentional breach, and then there is an event that never gets beyond the \\"almost\\" stage. Had it occurred it would have been the greatest of tragedies.<br />The injured party, whether through right or the power of family and position, could have done anything he chose to his friend and betrayer. For over 40 years he could have easily sought him out, but yet he never did, he never even contemplated seeking a traditional revenge. When the faithless friend comes to visit, dinner is served with a meticulous eye for the reproduction of every detail of the dinner 42 years before. There are only two at the table as opposed to three, and yet the missing third is a tangential issue, important but not the focus. The host queries his guest about events of which he knows all the details save for one. He already knows what happened, and is comfortable as to motive. The author builds such expectations in the reader that you will wonder if the final act can possibly match the first.<br />There is only one question, however there are two sources for the truth. The host for most of his life has held one and he has never violated the seal, his friend alone can provide the answer if the book remains closed. The resolution of the tale is brilliant. It is complex, and also beautifully logical when expressed as this one character of fiction has decanted it for most of his life. There is no written slight of hand. This is a completely new approach, a unique response to what should seem clich&eacute;. Absolutely great reading.nd comes to visit, dinner is served with a meticulous eye for the reproduction of every detail of the dinner 42 years before. There are only two at the table as opposed to three, and yet the missing third is a tangential issue, important but not the focus. The host queries his guest about events of which he knows all the details save for one. He already knows what happened, and is comfortable as to motive. The author builds such expectations in the reader that you will wonder if the final act can possibly match the first.<br />There is only one question, however there are two sources for the truth. The host for most of his life has held one and he has never violated the seal, his friend alone can provide the answer if the book remains closed. The resolution of the tale is brilliant. It is complex, and also beautifully logical when expressed as this one character of fiction has decanted it for most of his life. There is no written slight of hand. This is a completely new approach, a unique response to what should seem clich. Absolutely great reading.	2001-12-13
1734411:US	53047425	R1PN4GEDWRW4RF	1582431329	979063761	Ambassador of the Dead	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Puzzling	I read this book several weeks ago but have not tried to comment until now. The book is well written, however the story is grim, it is like listening to one musical note that does not change. The theme is a familiar story of once wealthy people who upon emigrating find themselves living a life that is less satisfying than they could have imagined. One individual, who did break out and move onward and upward, is drawn back by a vague summons regarding some crisis, and this is what the body of the book explores.<br />The summons that returns Dr. Blud to his boyhood haunts in New Jersey must be vague to bring him back. There is nothing that justifies why this man would ever return to this neighborhood, so a mystery is needed to spark his curiosity and the return. The summons comes from Adriana the mother of his best childhood friend. Upon his arrival the past is explored and it is unremittingly grim, sometimes tragic, often brutally intentioned. And this is where I lost the thread. The immigrant tale of misery has been written about so many times and so well, that entering the genre takes more than desire. Much of the book is a distraction, which is contrived by Adriana to allow time to make a claim.<br />When the book reaches its close the author has used a somewhat clever device that explains why the reader has been forced, together with the Dr., by Adriana to endure the recitation of so much history. For this reader it was somewhat of a consolation for an otherwise bland read. It did not suddenly make clear and necessary all that the reader was put through, however it did provide some interest.<br />Perhaps I missed something with this work. I would suggest the book to others who have a gap in their reading time they need to fill; I would not make reading the book a priority.	2001-12-13
1734437:US	53047425	RXLSGCCGLBXN6	0345441621	70261650	Among the Missing	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Missing And Marginalized	Mr. Don Chaon's work, \\"Among The Missing\\", lost out to, \\"The Corrections\\", for the best work of fiction for The National Book Awards, I have not read the winning novel, however it must have been very good to share company with these dozen tales. Many of these stories while not mainstream America are all too familiar. Mr. Chaon takes some very common events and makes them noteworthy with their conclusions.<br />The stories are not narrow variations on a theme, some center on an event, others on a group, and still others on individuals. The opening story, \\"Safety Man\\", would seem to belong in the category of the surreal from the comments on the book jacket. It is an altogether serious look at how loss is mitigated, and how solutions/substitutions that are not readily apparent can be legitimate. \\"Among The Missing\\", that also titles the book will bring memories from the real world to mind at once. A family outing in their car could not be a more normal event. The final locale continues to include the entire family much as they started out, however with a great mystery and tragedy as the destination.<br />One of the stories that stood out in my reading was, \\"Passengers, Remain Calm\\". This story veers away from its title immediately and barely makes it back, or not, depending on your interpretation. A carnival again is an event that is familiar to the majority of readers, however Mr. Chaon sees this event through a relationship, and does so through his unique view. In this and others stories that struggle to rise above melancholy, or worse, even here the spin leaves the reader feeling ambivalent.<br />This is the first time I have read this man's work, and I will certainly pursue more. This is not a book that will lift your spirits, but I don't believe that was his goal. He offers a grim view that is all too familiar.	2001-12-13
1743796:US	53047425	R2OJ0SBRG84SV4	1891620525	149858239	Henry Ford and the Jews: The Mass Production of Hate	Books	5	90	119	N	N	Always Necessary	History must be revised when any new and accurate information appears. Neil Baldwin's book, \\"Henry Ford And The Jews The Mass Production Of Hate\\", utilizes some information that was only opened from archives in March of 2001. Further, no matter how much time may pass, history as portrayed in this book must always be available to new generations of readers. I believe that the darker aspects of this country's or any nation's history, must be documented accurately and fairly. Reality has demonstrated that with the passage of time facts are forgotten, and become the target for revisionists who replace history with fiction. Historical events like The Holocaust have been defended in court within the last 2 years. The defense was required to prove The Holocaust took place.<br />Mr. Baldwin has documented the actions of one of the most influential businessmen of the 20th Century. Mr. Henry Ford's achievements in the production of his cars are a fact of history. Mr. Ford was a talented man, and had he confined himself to what he was competent to conduct, his memory would be a very different one. Mr. Ford is portrayed in this book by a wide variety of sources as a man who was amazingly ill informed, a man who placed no value on education, was a tyrant to those who made his fortune, and a man who had the distinction of having his portrait on the wall of Adolph Hitler's Office. Like other notable names in American History he accepted the highest honor bestowed on a non-German by Hitler. Another recipient Charles Lindbergh could claim he had no idea he was to be presented with the, \\"Honor\\". Mr. Ford accepted his on the occasion of his birthday with 1500 invited guests. Another famous recipient of the award was Mr. Thomas Watson of IBM fame. Of the 3 men, only the latter had the common sense to return the medal. Mr. Ford proudly stood for photographs of his presentation on July 30, 1938. At this point there is no conceivable defense for claiming not to know what Hitler was about.<br />Mr. Ford claimed to hate those who were profiteers of war. His views changed as Ford operated in Germany throughout World War II producing tens of thousands of military trucks and cars, and unlike other companies, Ford was never nationalized, and retained majority ownership throughout the war. As the Nazi's invaded other nations they handed the production of cars over to Ford.<br />It helps to bring the idea of how influential this man was forward in time. Today you would need to take the head of one of the world's largest companies, and then imagine his conducting himself as Ford did. Today it is inconceivable that a person could buy a newspaper for the express purpose of spreading Anti-Semitic hatred, that a person could publish countless thousands of copies of, \\"The Protocols Of The Elders Of Zion\\", and continue to claim they were anything but the fiction they were. But this is what he did, for decades. He continually tried to force anyone who bought one of his cars to buy a subscription to his paper; he demanded that dealers tie his anti-Semitism to every sale.<br />Mr. Ford is often spoken of when better wages are discussed during his period in manufacturing history. What I had not read before was the private portion of the company that would inspect the homes and personal habits of workers to qualify them for this added pay. A worker was subject to any invasion of privacy to ensure he lived, as Ford deemed appropriate. Henry Ford never did anything that was not in his interest, and was not tangled in strings for those who would accept his \\"largesse\\".<br />The author was catalyzed to pursue this subject when The Ford Motor Company underwrote all the funds that would have been generated by selling commercials when, \\"Schindler's List\\", was first aired on television. This is the new Ford Company that came about almost immediately upon the founder's death. The present company in no way should be blamed for the sins of its founder, however after half a centuryhas passed, the need to make amends is clearly still felt.<br />The book tells a tragic story of events that took place not so long ago. Events that will always be relevant, should always be available, and never forgotten.has passed, the need to make amends is clearly still felt.<br />The book tells a tragic story of events that took place not so long ago. Events that will always be relevant, should always be available, and never forgotten.	2001-12-06
1744719:US	53047425	R2JRS2MQBUDET5	0525946284	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	4	121	123	N	N	This Is The Follett I Remember	One of the earliest books in this genre that I read was the, \\"Eye Of The Needle\\". The author has since ranged widely amongst a variety of subjects, however with, \\"Jackdaws\\", Mr. Follett returns to World War II just prior to the Invasion Of Normandy. And like his previous efforts with this historical setting it is very well done, and will bring fond memories to those readers who were waiting for him to turn his pen once again to this theme.<br />The book is a substantial work offering readers well over 400 pages of taught writing that unfolds over a little more than a week prior to D-Day. Like all books of this event it contains heroes, however they play against the background here, as a heroine takes charge of the story as well as the events in the book. The book begins with a notation that states that 50 women worked as secret agents in France for The Special Executive during the war. The book never seems to reach the moniker of historical fiction, although comments at the end strongly insinuate there was a real woman who, at the very least provided the inspiration for the heroine, \\"Flick\\". The women who volunteered to serve behind enemy lines in occupied France, and repeatedly traveled back and forth across The Channel during the war were clearly remarkable women, and were as fearless as any of their male counterparts.<br />This novel is a bit scattered in its tone. The changes in the mood of the book work well as a whole, however they can seem a bit jarring and out of place as the book is read. If very graphic descriptions of the most brutal interrogation of both men and women are an issue, several areas of this book will be troublesome to read. I don't feel the length to which Mr. Follett took the level of detail was necessary, he is a wonderful writer, and many of these dungeon settings with their attendant horrors struck me as gratuitous. The main event of the book will either work well for a reader, or will be dismissed as being far too improbable. Mr. Follett increases the likelihood of the latter response as the team that is selected is from a practical standpoint untrained but for Flick, and their conduct is so outrageous it tests the reader's ability to suspend disbelief. There are always amazing true stories conducted by a group that should have a near zero chance of prevailing, however Mr. Follett takes the group a step further by making them all fairly dysfunctional as individuals. This is a bit like the stories of a group of jailed soldiers being granted a chance at redemption. The difference is they are at least soldiers, again with the exception of Flick, the group ranges as far as a member who can be likened to Julie Andrews in Victor Victoria, albeit reversed.<br />As odd as it may sound in conclusion I did very much enjoy the book. The only rationale I can offer is that the Heroine Flick was a wonderful character, beautifully written, and as competent as any Special Forces Operative. So while there may be bits that will make a reader wince with incredulity, read on. This is very much a case of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts.t increases the likelihood of the latter response as the team that is selected is from a practical standpoint untrained but for Flick, and their conduct is so outrageous it tests the reader's ability to suspend disbelief. There are always amazing true stories conducted by a group that should have a near zero chance of prevailing, however Mr. Follett takes the group a step further by making them all fairly dysfunctional as individuals. This is a bit like the stories of a group of jailed soldiers being granted a chance at redemption. The difference is they are at least soldiers, again with the exception of Flick, the group ranges as far as a member who can be likened to Julie Andrews in Victor Victoria, albeit reversed.<br />As odd as it may sound in conclusion I did very much enjoy the book. The only rationale I can offer is that the Heroine Flick was a wonderful character, beautifully written, and as competent as any Special Forces Operative. So while there may be bits that will make a reader wince with incredulity, read on. This is very much a case of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts.	2001-12-05
1745193:US	53047425	R142XJPL2VNMMN	0151006725	216165989	Slammerkin: A Loose Dress, A Loose Woman	Books	3	38	42	N	N	No Respite (Closer To 4 Stars)	Emma Donoghue has written a very engaging piece of historical fiction. The facts available to her were fairly thin, so unlike others who write in this genre, the author was required to create the vast majority of this work. I don't know to what degree book jackets affect the sale of a book, however I came across the book initially without the cover, and had it had a cover I don't think I would have picked it up. I would have been the one to have lost out, for the book is a good if very dark, graphic and unrelentingly grim tale.<br />The tragic character of this story is Mary Saunders. Her life circumstances in early 18th Century London are extremely grim, Mr. Dickens would read as an optimist by comparison. Mary, unlike other characters is not forced in to her initial act that will see her banished from her home, her family, and will send her through the darkest spots that London has on offer. The persons she will meet with set her firmly in the life of other, \\"strolling girls\\". From the very start of her fall she is driven by what appear to be items of little consequence, however they are obsessions to her. It is not hunger or illness that drives her to an act that will begin her tragic path, rather a bit of ribbon, and even for all she sacrifices for this, the color she traded for eludes her.<br />After a graphic visit to remove the result of her trade for the ribbon, she travels through a series of fits and starts that offer a more traditional life. The author raises great hope as she relocates; however even as she joins her relatives she is unable to complete the trip without reverting to old habits. Slammerkin refers to a certain type of dress and a defined type of woman. This dual meaning is carried throughout the book as a slammerkin is not really worn by its female counterpart. Mary Saunders is also continually attempting to define who she is, yet she always ends by leading two very different lives while simultaneously deceiving those that would help her.<br />The book states, \\"Clothes make the woman, and, Clothes are the biggest lie ever told\\". Her preoccupation with life's finery and the lie she lives to achieve the fiction they represent not only ensure she will never recover herself, but ultimately will bring her own ruin. The book is a good albeit very grim read./>The book states, \\"Clothes make the woman, and, Clothes are the biggest lie ever told\\". Her preoccupation with life's finery and the lie she lives to achieve the fiction they represent not only ensure she will never recover herself, but ultimately will bring her own ruin. The book is a good albeit very grim read.	2001-12-05
1746474:US	53047425	R2NQW1RX6NO57J	0767908279	861563653	Measuring Eternity: The Search for the Beginning of Time	Books	5	15	19	N	N	From 4,004 To 13.8 Billion	If you have an old family Bible published as recently as the early 20Th Century, or about 1910, you will find a notation that is remarkable. This was the last year that Bibles gave not only the year that the world began, but also the date, the day, and the time down to the minute. Specifically, the world was to have been created on Saturday October 22 at 6:30 in the year 4,004b.c. An Irish Bishop, James Usher had calculated the date in the early 17th century, and his date prevailed despite challenges for almost 300 years. His methodology was superficially simple, however his source material contained a variety of time spans that were in conflict. Various ancient texts provided reference points when a variety of Biblical events took place, and these contradictions all had to be reconciled or eliminated to arrive at Bishop Usher's Date. Stated simply, he began with Genesis and then added together all of the lives that were listed, and the times they spanned to arrive at his date.<br />At first glance his thinking appears terribly flawed, however the reality of dating the creation of our universe from the, \\"Big Bang\\", was only agreed upon after the Hubble Telescope was in orbit for several years, and even the present date comes with a margin of error of plus or minus 10 percent. In practice this amounts to just under 1.4 billion years. It also took until the end of the 20th Century to prove the Universe is expanding, and to agree on the rate of expansion, sort of. For even those who adhere to the present numbers know that few theories never change, and the rate at which the Universe is expanding is still being refined.<br />The centuries that encompassed the search for the origin in time of the space that our planet calls home, was pursued without pause and by familiar and brilliant minds. Throughout the process the Church was always watching carefully for no one knew whether Faith and Science would somehow be reconciled, or whether Science would somehow shatter beliefs held for millennia. Failing to place scientific thought, if not in step with The Church, then at least not in obvious opposition was both critical and potentially fatal to those who espoused such perceived heresy. When the theory of all matter originating from a void at a single moment in time was put forth, The Vatican was so relieved that Pope Pius The XII literally spoke and wrote embracing the theory. Scientists rushed to suggest that their theory was just that and the Pontiff would do well to not continue to celebrate what was not fact. He did not speak publicly on the subject again.<br />\\"Time\\", is a man-made construct that is relevant only to us. Even to our species, Albert Einstein demonstrated that time was relative, depending on a person's point of view, their position relative to a specific event. \\"Measuring Eternity\\" by Mr. Martin Gorst documents the history and the men and woman who sought to measure an area that was both real and had an age, and to use our definition of time to arrive at an answer. The story is incredible, and the book relates the history in both an exciting manner, and one that the non-scientist can enjoy.<br />Mr. Gorst relates the tale of the Irish Bishop already mentioned, up to those who work with The Hubble Telescope today. Many of the earlier methods will seem primitive until they are placed in context. Measuring the saline content of oceans, the changes in elevation after an earthquake, the depth of lava flows, and when known comets repeatedly visited the Earth are just a few of the methodologies that were used. A famous French Scientist would heat metal and equate the time it took for the specimen to cool, to the touch of a hand, and compare that with when the Earth could have sustained life. His answers were not correct, however his progress toward the correct answer was exponentially closer than previously thought.<br />And so history progressed, with seashells found thousands of feet above sea level, and fossils found deep within the Earth. How did they get there, how long did it take? When the methods turned to the stars, again the basic question of how to measure was the primary hurdle. The events that lead to finding reliable reference points, and enough of them literally did not come together until The Hubble Telescope was able to supply all the measurements, and the journey is amazing.<br />All the reader need bring to this book is an inquisitive mind. There are plenty of ideas that can only be understood by a select group, however the author does manage to relate the story for most everyone. The book does require that the reader try and imagine \\"everything from a void\\", to get comfortable with the idea that what is observed not only happened long ago, but that if you were able to instantly travel to the event, it would have ended and vanished billions of years ago.<br />And the amazing convergence of science and ancient faith is remarkable. Scientists routinely speak of the two systems working together, being dependent upon one another, almost symbiotic. For some it may read as metaphor, for others it will read literally. Whichever the case, the trip through time about measuring just how long time has been ticking, is extraordinary.p within the Earth. How did they get there, how long did it take? When the methods turned to the stars, again the basic question of how to measure was the primary hurdle. The events that lead to finding reliable reference points, and enough of them literally did not come together until The Hubble Telescope was able to supply all the measurements, and the journey is amazing.<br />All the reader need bring to this book is an inquisitive mind. There are plenty of ideas that can only be understood by a select group, however the author does manage to relate the story for most everyone. The book does require that the reader try and imagine \\"everything from a void\\", to get comfortable with the idea that what is observed not only happened long ago, but that if you were able to instantly travel to the event, it would have ended and vanished billions of years ago.<br />And the amazing convergence of science and ancient faith is remarkable. Scientists routinely speak of the two systems working together, being dependent upon one another, almost symbiotic. For some it may read as metaphor, for others it will read literally. Whichever the case, the trip through time about measuring just how long time has been ticking, is extraordinary.	2001-12-04
1746497:US	53047425	RU7CNCZES6LS0	0312244150	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Survivor And A Son	There are a large number of stories that detail the survival of individuals and of the human spirit during World War II. Stories that specifically are told by those who were the primary targets of Hitler's evil are often the most fantastic, as these people were not just surviving a war, they were surviving a war while they were simultaneously hunted. The book does contain descriptions of brutality, however they serve as exclamation marks to the ordeal of surviving inside the nation that lost more to the death squads of The Nazi's than any other country. As was the case with other countries that were on the wrong side of the Iron Curtain when it fell, Wladyslaw Szpilman went from a Poland occupied by The Nazi's to a Poland occupied by The USSR.<br />A man who was young, and whose experiences were extremely fresh wrote this account in 1945. After the book appeared it was suppressed, and it was to be 50 years before it would be available for the public. One of the striking features of the narrative is that it is not an emotional account that vents all the dark hatreds he reasonably could have aired, the book is not a pleasant treatise on life during The Holocaust, it seemingly is related as it took place, without need for anything other than his personal observations. As a musician and well-known composer in Europe, perhaps his writing style is similar to the discipline and management of creating a musical piece for piano. I don't know the answer, however it is very noticeable in the book.<br />When a person survives a near miss with death, people often say it was just not his or her time to go. If this expression applies to anyone it applies to Mr. Szpilman. Any survivor of this time was a part of a small group, however this man had something looking out for him. The train that takes away his family offers him what would appear to be a brief respite. He hides and is hidden by various people for years until one day the building he has hidden in is burning, and in a moment of despondence he takes medication that puts him to sleep, and then lies down to die. His alternative would have been to walk out the door in to the hands of The SS. He sleeps; he wakes, and survives the fire. Still the SS come and he hangs from a portion of the roof until they leave.<br />It could easily be labeled luck that he managed to dodge so many near misses that would have lead to an instant, or a prolonged death in the camps. That good fortune, such as it was, helped, he survived as he took his year ordeal a day at a time. We are able to share this experience as his son Andrzej Szpilman never gave up his efforts to have the book published. It took half of the 20th Century to get the book back into print, and into hands of readers. The perseverance of the son is a tribute to the monumental accomplishment of his father's survival.ent of despondence he takes medication that puts him to sleep, and then lies down to die. His alternative would have been to walk out the door in to the hands of The SS. He sleeps; he wakes, and survives the fire. Still the SS come and he hangs from a portion of the roof until they leave.<br />It could easily be labeled luck that he managed to dodge so many near misses that would have lead to an instant, or a prolonged death in the camps. That good fortune, such as it was, helped, he survived as he took his year ordeal a day at a time. We are able to share this experience as his son Andrzej Szpilman never gave up his efforts to have the book published. It took half of the 20th Century to get the book back into print, and into hands of readers. The perseverance of the son is a tribute to the monumental accomplishment of his father's survival.	2001-12-04
1748496:US	53047425	R2WUZNVZ0UEG9C	0374138591	982971945	The Devil's Larder	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Look Once Then Look Again	\\"The Devil's Larder\\", by Jim Crace is as inventive as his other works, and while it becomes rather mischievous at times it does not hit the darkest moods that some of his other work has. If you have never read this author the idea that he could present 64 short stories in 165 pages would seem to be a challenge at best, and at least worth questioning the viability of such a work. I started reading his work this year and he is the most unique writer I have encountered in several years. His point of view is fundamentally different from what others seem to see, no matter how familiar a situation, when shared through his pen, it becomes unique.<br />Before you begin the read look at the cover. Food and its consumption is about as familiar an activity that all people engage in that I can think of. It's true that some make careers of its preparation, and others of enjoying the results of the labor in the kitchen; however eating is not an option. This book explores the myths associated with food, food as art taken to an absurd conclusion, food as revenge, as religion, and as an intimate exchange that takes place when people dine together. He also takes a variety of practices involving food preparation and production that are common every day events, modifies the perception a bit, and radically alters the reader's view.<br />The stories vary in length and certainly test the traditional limits of what can constitute a tale. The enjoyment and wonder of this man's writing is that he demonstrates that for a writer who has meticulously refined his thoughts, length becomes meaningless. There are quotes in literature, or spoken in the delivery of speech that may contains a handful or words, yet they become familiar to vast numbers of people over centuries or even millennia. It is what is said, not how long an author takes to say it that matters. The writer must also communicate the entire idea, or at a minimum set the reader on a bit of a thought odyssey regardless of length.<br />Some of these works are more like poems; others run the several pages that would normally constitute a short tale. Mr. Crace is a unique thinker and gifted writer. Now when you finish reading the book once again look at the same piece of art presented on the back of the book's jacket. Like his stories all that is changed is perspective. And like his stories what you see could not be more different from your initial view, to the new one he provides the reader with.Some of these works are more like poems; others run the several pages that would normally constitute a short tale. Mr. Crace is a unique thinker and gifted writer. Now when you finish reading the book once again look at the same piece of art presented on the back of the book's jacket. Like his stories all that is changed is perspective. And like his stories what you see could not be more different from your initial view, to the new one he provides the reader with.	2001-12-03
1753994:US	53047425	R2T2QVNQCNEV3B	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Presidents A Pope And The Potato	This is the sequel to the excellent first volume of counter factual history that was presented in the original, \\"What If ?\\". The possibilities of how history may have unfolded if the path that did take place was altered are literally endless. Not all the scenarios are as entertaining or thought provoking as others, and in general the first of these two books was more consistent in both subject matter and presentation. The majority of the alternate histories that are presented are very worthwhile for contemplation, however there are some exceptions that make an otherwise worthy continuation, place second among the two books readers have been offered.<br />The first book was largely based on military what if scenarios. This second volume tries to take a broader look at events, however conflict of one sort or another is usually a factor. The book opens with one of the better and most far reaching counter factual scenarios. The death of a single individual that can modify a portion of history is less scarce than one whose death could arguably change history fundamentally. The first scenario asks what if there was a single death at Delium in 424 B.C., and the life lost in battle had been that of Socrates? In the broadest sense no less than the Western intellectual tradition that flowed from this man would have been replaced by a very different set of criteria. If there were no Socrates, then who would have taught Plato, would he even have aspired as he did? This initial foray into what if is excellent.<br />The Chinese traveled widely by sea, in ships that were up to 400 feet in length and 150 feet wide. Their ability to have \\"discovered\\" the world that Columbus eventually stumbled upon was not only within their capabilities, it is again an alternative historical outcome that holds fantastic variables. The Pontificate of Pope Pius The XII is a controversial one. Whether one studies his behavior prior to becoming Pope, The Vatican Concordat signed with Germany in 1933, or his inaction as Pope to use his influence during the war, the decisions he made were epic even as he believed his decisions to do very little were equally important. The world will never know what a Pontiff who used his authority before Hitler began his onslaught on humanity might have accomplished, what lives he may have saved. I believe it is reasonable to say that had he been an aggressive defender of humanity without regard for sectarian beliefs there would certainly be more people that would have lived through the war.<br />There are a total of 25 scenarios for the reader to choose favorites from. Pontius Pilate decides not to condemn Christ to death is a major historical shift, however the presentation does not rise to the gravity of the issue. Others are not unfamiliar, such as what if England had been lead by a Prime Minister named Halifax instead of Churchill? The hour would have happened, would we still recall it as \\"their finest hour\\"?<br />An essay on the potato may seem trite, however it is as meaningful as most other discussions you will read. If this spud had not been found in Peru by noted explorers and was not spread around the world, how different would history be, the answer may surprise you.<br />This second, in what I hope will be a continuing series, is not as strong as the first. With few notable exceptions, both the scenarios proffered, and the manners they are examined are very worthwhile. There are some writers included that are not up to the task they chose, but overall the book is well worth a reader's time.his inaction as Pope to use his influence during the war, the decisions he made were epic even as he believed his decisions to do very little were equally important. The world will never know what a Pontiff who used his authority before Hitler began his onslaught on humanity might have accomplished, what lives he may have saved. I believe it is reasonable to say that had he been an aggressive defender of humanity without regard for sectarian beliefs there would certainly be more people that would have lived through the war.<br />There are a total of 25 scenarios for the reader to choose favorites from. Pontius Pilate decides not to condemn Christ to death is a major historical shift, however the presentation does not rise to the gravity of the issue. Others are not unfamiliar, such as what if England had been lead by a Prime Minister named Halifax instead of Churchill? The hour would have happened, would we still recall it as \\"their finest hour\\"?<br />An essay on the potato may seem trite, however it is as meaningful as most other discussions you will read. If this spud had not been found in Peru by noted explorers and was not spread around the world, how different would history be, the answer may surprise you.<br />This second, in what I hope will be a continuing series, is not as strong as the first. With few notable exceptions, both the scenarios proffered, and the manners they are examined are very worthwhile. There are some writers included that are not up to the task they chose, but overall the book is well worth a reader's time.	2001-11-28
1755000:US	53047425	R1GCIR5XVXB3Z4	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	102	115	N	N	Give The Book A Chance	If the Reagan Presidency is one that you have strong negative feelings about, this book is not for you. If you feel unconditional admiration for the man and his time in office, again this particular book is not for you. In my opinion the book is more favorable to the man than negative, however the author devotes a substantial portion of the book to comments from those who opposed President Reagan while in office. Author Peggy Noonan is clearly an admirer of her subject, although this was not always the case as she herself had written and published comments that are normal for politics but would make the average person feel anger at the very least.<br />This is only my thought, however I think that presenting a book that was a condemnation of the man and his service to the country would be a questionable decision at present. President Reagan in October became the longest living President in the nation's history, and with that age he has become one of the millions who suffer from Alzheimer's. There is also public opinion, which was expressed via a Gallup Poll commissioned by CNN during the spring of 2001. Polls are not perfect, but this one showed that together with Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy, President Regan is one of, if not the most, admired of all Presidents.<br />Ms. Noonan has access to many of the Reagan Family and she clearly has their trust. This includes the former First Lady who is well known to be what many would feel is hyper protective of her husband. After I completed this book I felt that the degree to which she was concerned was very understandable. The relationship between this couple has been documented elsewhere and it clearly is a special one.<br />This book covers much familiar ground for those who have read President Reagan's Autobiography, so the first half of the book is review for those who have passed those parts before. There are two elements of the book that were of great interest, one added a great deal of information to the attempt upon his life, and the other section was devoted to recollections of many who served during his Presidency albeit from the opposing party. Iran-Contra is also covered in detail and in no way apologizes for what President Reagan allowed either directly or tacitly. Ms. Noonan places the blame on President Reagan. Her coverage of the issue is done in detail and dispassionately. This is a man she clearly admires and was disappointed and angry when the controversy came to light. Her insights into his views on what happened and why are interesting as well.<br />She adds to her words those of other familiar figures like Tip O'Neal, Dan Rastinkowski, and others. Some of these people clearly did not agree with Reagan on the methods to achieve a variety of goals, however amongst any criticism, it is clear they respected him as a man and a President with integrity. She also puts to rest claims made by detractors that may gain notice but are based on the imagination of those that spread the stories. One of the more notable stories surrounded the accusation he lied about being present when concentration camps were liberated. This and other falsehoods are remedied.<br />President Reagan makes a great target for actions that seem corny to many. Twenty years have passed and history is remembering the President with great affection. If it's to be branded as corny a President who would not remove his suit coat or blazer in The Oval Office out of respect for what that room represents, I'll take such a President.<br />Just over a generation has passed since he first took office as president, and history appears to be remembering, as he was, a flawed but remarkable president.mpt upon his life, and the other section was devoted to recollections of many who served during his Presidency albeit from the opposing party. Iran-Contra is also covered in detail and in no way apologizes for what President Reagan allowed either directly or tacitly. Ms. Noonan places the blame on President Reagan. Her coverage of the issue is done in detail and dispassionately. This is a man she clearly admires and was disappointed and angry when the controversy came to light. Her insights into his views on what happened and why are interesting as well.<br />She adds to her words those of other familiar figures like Tip O'Neal, Dan Rastinkowski, and others. Some of these people clearly did not agree with Reagan on the methods to achieve a variety of goals, however amongst any criticism, it is clear they respected him as a man and a President with integrity. She also puts to rest claims made by detractors that may gain notice but are based on the imagination of those that spread the stories. One of the more notable stories surrounded the accusation he lied about being present when concentration camps were liberated. This and other falsehoods are remedied.<br />President Reagan makes a great target for actions that seem corny to many. Twenty years have passed and history is remembering the President with great affection. If it's to be branded as corny a President who would not remove his suit coat or blazer in The Oval Office out of respect for what that room represents, I'll take such a President.<br />Just over a generation has passed since he first took office as president, and history appears to be remembering, as he was, a flawed but remarkable president.	2001-11-28
1755594:US	53047425	R18IO2OM4RE5I8	0871138301	11509057	Scourge: The Once and Future Threat of Smallpox	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Provides Answers And Provokes More Questions	Mr. Jonathan B. Tucker has not offered readers a rapidly compiled, superficial report, in response to the attacks of September 11 and the concerns raised since then. This work is not sensationalized although the effects of certain strains of this disease are hard to describe without appearing gratuitously graphic. There are a wide variety of strains of this virus provided by nature that are truly horrific. Then there are engineered strains that are man-made for use only as weapons that justify questioning how we as a species have survived this long, and how easily the time for many could be abbreviated.<br />The author traces the disease from Ancient Egypt, to, and until the successful end of an international effort to remove the disease from the planet. This particular member of The Pox Family of viruses does not have a host, like Malaria's Mosquito. It exists only in humans, and unlike Anthrax that can remain dormant; when Smallpox is killed it stays that way. The eradication of this health menace is one of the great accomplishments of medicine and of mankind; unfortunately the story does not yet have a happy ending.<br />Until 1992 when a Russian Scientist defected and brought the story of Russia's massive Bio-Weapons program in Siberia to the world's attention, it was widely believed that there were only two relatively small amounts of the virus in existence. One location was at The Center For Disease Control in Atlanta, and a single locale in Russia, which in reality was more than one, inclusive of a massive facility for engineering new strains of the virus and the means to deliver them at a facility in Siberia. The Soviets were not content with a virus that countries had stopped protecting their populations with; they were creating more vicious strains by adding, in one example, a Hemorrhagic aspect to the disease. This is the type of virus associated with Ebola.<br />When the USSR imploded there was technology for sale, scientists, and the diseases they had created. It now is believed that North Korea, Iraq, and Iran have the virus, and other nations may have it as well. The World Health Organization had been attempting to destroy all the viral stocks, however they have been blocked not only by The United States and Russia, but many in the scientific community as well. Spring of 2002 was to be the date for final destruction of all stockpiles; this date would now appear highly unlikely.<br />The book gives a very good historical overview of Smallpox and the effects it has had on history. Smallpox has been used as a weapon in war and the effects were devastating. The only technology involved was giving away blankets that the sick had been wrapped in, or sending carriers of the disease amongst the enemy. This was Smallpox as nature created it, and how 17th and 18th century warfare delivered it. The book also goes into great detail about the delivery systems that could be launched upon missiles with multiple warheads, which could release the virus over large areas.<br />Unlike Anthrax, Smallpox is extremely contagious depending on the strain involved. All strains are contagious; some produce more in aerosol form from an infected person than others. This book also makes it very clear that a person who shows no signs of having the disease can transmit it.<br />The frustrating part of this book and others sources I have reviewed is that there is no agreement on how much vaccine The United States has at present. I have read numbers from 16 million to 90 million doses. The US Government is authorizing production of enough vaccine for the entire US Population as a result of September 11th. Another point that is bothersome, is that once vaccinated, how long is a person protected? No one will state a time frame. The answer is generally phrased as, after x number of years the resistance of the person vaccinated will decrease. I have read numbers from as low as 5 years to as high as 12. Even after these points it appears to be the consensus the person is still afforded some protection.<br />The one fact that is not in dispute, is that with the exception of military personnel, those who work around the disease, and others who may serve overseas, no one has been vaccinated in this country since 1972. So leaving aside how long those who have been vaccinated at one time may still have some protection, and dealing only with those who have zero resistance, we have a nation with a group from birth to age 29, and that population is unprotected.<br />ICBM laced Smallpox missiles are probably not worth a great deal of concern. However in this book you will read of scenarios where extremely low-tech methods could spread the disease, for example, in an Airport, and within 24 hours there would be few states that would not have people incubating and spreading the disease.<br />The book is not alarmist, however after the attacks of the 11th of September, the number of scenarios that once appeared fantastic, must now be viewed with reasonable amounts of serious thought. The manner that the disease was originally destroyed is not only remarkable; it was done in a manner you will not expect. This book may have had a very narrow audience some months ago, now it should be of interest to everyone.nsensus the person is still afforded some protection.<br />The one fact that is not in dispute, is that with the exception of military personnel, those who work around the disease, and others who may serve overseas, no one has been vaccinated in this country since 1972. So leaving aside how long those who have been vaccinated at one time may still have some protection, and dealing only with those who have zero resistance, we have a nation with a group from birth to age 29, and that population is unprotected.<br />ICBM laced Smallpox missiles are probably not worth a great deal of concern. However in this book you will read of scenarios where extremely low-tech methods could spread the disease, for example, in an Airport, and within 24 hours there would be few states that would not have people incubating and spreading the disease.<br />The book is not alarmist, however after the attacks of the 11th of September, the number of scenarios that once appeared fantastic, must now be viewed with reasonable amounts of serious thought. The manner that the disease was originally destroyed is not only remarkable; it was done in a manner you will not expect. This book may have had a very narrow audience some months ago, now it should be of interest to everyone.	2001-11-27
1763070:US	53047425	R299FEA9S2XLQM	0670030023	445205425	Breaking Faith: THE POPE, THE PEOPLE, AND THE FATE OF CATHOLICISM	Books	5	37	47	N	N	Conversation Not Conflict	Differing religious views cause conflict with greater speed between family and nations than virtually any topic. With his book, \\"Breaking Faith\\", John Cornwell addresses trends in The Catholic Church and the circumstances that have resulted. Some will find him courageous, others will condemn his audacity/temerity to question, or to air issues within the church. The Catholic Church is a massive body of persons (est. 1 billion) spread over the globe, it must cope with the many cultures that have embraced Catholicism, a laity more educated than ever before, and tremendously diverse groups found within given cultures. The contemporary church is faced with members/potential members, who like an inquisitive child continually question why. The church is ill equipped to deal with its far-flung membership, for while results of Vatican Two remain the subject of debate, 40 years have passed, and the world has changed at a rate never imagined. Four decades is a brief moment for the church. For the laity it is two generations, a lifetime.<br />The current Pope is a man of remarkable constitution. He has traveled more than any Pope, he has appointed 159 Cardinals of whom 135 would vote for the next Pope were a new Pontiff required. This latter number is again the highest in church history. He has nominated 2,650 of the church's 4,200 Bishops, has started more individuals toward canonization than any Pope, with 798 beatified and 280 canonized. His Pontificate is noted for its active nature and for one of integrity, of influence, as with the end of Communism in Poland, and the Pope's strength he continues to summon despite illness, age, and the shots of an assassin.<br />His Pontificate, begun on October 16, 1978, marked the day that a historically young Pope, a Pope many believed would recognize the contemporary church, and while not becoming a liberal Pontiff, would be progressive on issues that were causing difficulty for the church. He has proven to be a conservative who has written widely and stated without ambiguity on issues of great import to Catholics, and the Vatican.<br />This is where the divergence begins. Authority resides in Rome, and many believe what issues from The Holy Father is the beginning and end of discussion. Being Catholic is not a matter of dining al a Carte, one is either a participant or not. The evidence is there are great numbers who have left the church, and many that remain, but do so on their terms.<br />The Pope has reminded his flock without ambiguity that issues like contraception, female priests, one's loss of position in the church if divorced, and the conduct required if remarried, has not changed, and to the extent he can, has written so as to ensure they do not change soon. This \\"time\\" would likely include that of the next Pope, as 93 percent of those who will choose the next Pontiff owe their position to the current one.<br />How can a Pontificate be measured? Is this topic one the laity should contemplate? Whatever the answer, they have commented and questioned by leaving the church. Seventy percent of Catholics reside in Third World Countries. Some areas have 1 Priest for almost 7,000 church members; these members may see a Priest once every 2 or 3 years. Catholic ritual has often become syncretic in these areas, as Catholic Ritual mixes with local and regional pagan beliefs. This is a direct result of having no Priests. And few are on the way as new Priests being ordained are fractions of the rates of decades ago, and the decline continues. Studies provided track the decline of many meaningful events critical to the church's survival. Ordinations of Priests and the women choosing to become Nuns have and are declining. Attendance at services is down and declining, as are baptisms, and the decline of Catholic Marriage. The elements rising are destructive also; Church closings, expanding number of issues that widen the gap between the laity and Vatican, increases in the rate of divorce among Catholics. These issues come in addition to the rise of homosexuality in the Priesthood, incidence of pedophilia (I suggest NO relationship between the two issues), and while Priests may not marry, they may leave the church, marry, have children and return, or a minister from a Protestant Church may become a Catholic together with his family. The latter issue is so convoluted as to defy logic. Divorced Catholics may remarry, but per the church the second marriage must remain chaste. Annulments while coming under fire are reminiscent of buying indulgences. Pay a fee and your marriage never happened, and any resulting children are illegitimate.<br />No Church can thrive by contracting. No Church can survive by maintaining the glacial pace adopted by the church as change. The days of treating the faithful as children ended for the faithful regardless of church recognition. Taking 500 years to state the church erred with Galileo, does not comfort those desirous of meaningful much less momentous change.<br />Mr. Cornwell may not be ideally Catholic as defined by Rome. He is a scholar, he is a man of faith who loves his church, and is clearly distressed by what he sees as continued intolerance, and the decline of membership. A Church, which states through the highest of offices that there should be respect and tolerance for differing faiths, and then separately states the only true religion is that defined by Rome's Catholicism, appears conflicted.<br />Mr. Cornwell closes with, what if we had a Pope who genuinely believed that those in trouble, with broken lives, relationships, and faith, are in greatest need of inclusion and love? A Pope who would mend the breaking faith of our Church must love all the faithful without exception; he must trust them, in deed as well as word, and see in the very least of them: the sinners, marginalized, dissidents, and the discouraged: the continued future of the One, True, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church.s. These issues come in addition to the rise of homosexuality in the Priesthood, incidence of pedophilia (I suggest NO relationship between the two issues), and while Priests may not marry, they may leave the church, marry, have children and return, or a minister from a Protestant Church may become a Catholic together with his family. The latter issue is so convoluted as to defy logic. Divorced Catholics may remarry, but per the church the second marriage must remain chaste. Annulments while coming under fire are reminiscent of buying indulgences. Pay a fee and your marriage never happened, and any resulting children are illegitimate.<br />No Church can thrive by contracting. No Church can survive by maintaining the glacial pace adopted by the church as change. The days of treating the faithful as children ended for the faithful regardless of church recognition. Taking 500 years to state the church erred with Galileo, does not comfort those desirous of meaningful much less momentous change.<br />Mr. Cornwell may not be ideally Catholic as defined by Rome. He is a scholar, he is a man of faith who loves his church, and is clearly distressed by what he sees as continued intolerance, and the decline of membership. A Church, which states through the highest of offices that there should be respect and tolerance for differing faiths, and then separately states the only true religion is that defined by Rome's Catholicism, appears conflicted.<br />Mr. Cornwell closes with, what if we had a Pope who genuinely believed that those in trouble, with broken lives, relationships, and faith, are in greatest need of inclusion and love? A Pope who would mend the breaking faith of our Church must love all the faithful without exception; he must trust them, in deed as well as word, and see in the very least of them: the sinners, marginalized, dissidents, and the discouraged: the continued future of the One, True, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church.	2001-11-21
1763450:US	53047425	RPKYFYFJ9FLFD	0312276885	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	4	48	51	N	N	One Of His Best?	The death of Robert Ludlum was a great loss to the genre of writing that was synonymous with his name, and other greats in the Genre's Pantheon, like John Le Carre. The masters of these books are in no way limited to the two I mention; different readers will all have their favorites.<br />The reason for the question mark at the beginning of my comments is for several reasons which I believe are important to his admirers from his earliest books, and to those readers experiencing his work for the first time. The final version of this book was completed some three months after the author's death. There is no question that the book is vintage Ludlum, however for his long time readers, evidence of the pen of another will be apparent. There is sardonic dialogue that does not read as his, and the female character, while very well done, is not a pure Ludlum creation in my opinion either.<br />Nowhere will you find any evidence that this was published posthumously. Every detail on the jacket is in the present tense when referring to Mr. Ludlum. The reason I find this bothersome is that Mr. Ludlum is alleged to have completed 11 additional outlines for books prior to his death. I do not know what constitutes an outline, however it is not a book, and I hope the publishers will be completely candid regarding who was involved in writing these future books. I don't believe anyone can impersonate his style, so whatever may be forthcoming may be great or poor, what they will not be are true Robert Ludlum Novels.<br />\\"The Sigma Protocol\\", is a work that will bring long time admirers back to many of his earlier works. The first work I ever read was his novel, \\"The Matarese Circle\\", and this book is almost as good as my initial experience, and other of his works considered to be among his best. The only factor that detracts from this final work is that it is a bit too slick in style. Mr. Ludlum wrote many stories that were complex and cadenced with brilliant speed, however his characters were never those that constantly tossed off quick witted repartee, and endorsed everything they came in contact with by a brand name. Mr. Ludlum wrote books not advertisements.<br />In spite of whatever intrusion there may have been, this book will make the very short list of Ludlum's best. The tale races all over the globe, and revisits classic locales like Zurich, Vienna, and many others. The World War II element could have been a terrible clich&eacute; in a lesser writer's hands. This book portrays a familiar group, however it also legitimizes the suspension of disbelief with real science from recent years. When the book reaches its closing moments it is hard to maintain complete originality, here it was done as well as any could have penned it.<br />I enthusiastically recommend this book even though its provenance is not completely known. This is also the reason for the lack of the 5th star. There is no way for me to know this; I just don't feel Mr. Ludlum would have wanted readers to be mislead in any manner about his work, to any degree. The bottom line is this is a great read that demonstrates that to the very end of his career Mr. Ludlum was able to create a work that can stand with the best of what he had given readers for decades.ters were never those that constantly tossed off quick witted repartee, and endorsed everything they came in contact with by a brand name. Mr. Ludlum wrote books not advertisements.<br />In spite of whatever intrusion there may have been, this book will make the very short list of Ludlum's best. The tale races all over the globe, and revisits classic locales like Zurich, Vienna, and many others. The World War II element could have been a terrible clich in a lesser writer's hands. This book portrays a familiar group, however it also legitimizes the suspension of disbelief with real science from recent years. When the book reaches its closing moments it is hard to maintain complete originality, here it was done as well as any could have penned it.<br />I enthusiastically recommend this book even though its provenance is not completely known. This is also the reason for the lack of the 5th star. There is no way for me to know this; I just don't feel Mr. Ludlum would have wanted readers to be mislead in any manner about his work, to any degree. The bottom line is this is a great read that demonstrates that to the very end of his career Mr. Ludlum was able to create a work that can stand with the best of what he had given readers for decades.	2001-11-20
1763628:US	53047425	R3PRXFM5ADQKJQ	0446528595	174862721	Swimming Across: A Memoir	Books	4	33	34	N	N	His Private Young Life	Andrew S. Grove is one of the few people whose contributions to his profession not only change the means by which societies function, his deeds have additionally earned him a place in history. The machine on which I type, and with which many of you will read these thoughts contain elements from Intel. The combination of brilliant science and management, while not perfect, has brought Intel to a position of leadership in international business. Mr. Grove stepped down from active management of Intel several years ago, however he maintains the position of Chairman. If you are interested in the story of a young man who arrives in America and rises to the heights of this country's business elite, and becomes Time Magazine's Man Of The Year, this is not the book you seek.<br />\\"Swimming Across\\", covers a remarkable though rather brief time of Mr. Grove's life. The memoir recounts memories from the age of 4, and ends when he completes college in New York City. After the close of the book he summarizes the 40 plus years the book does not mention, and while interesting to say the least, it is even more frustrating. Mr. Grove has always been a private man, and he states this book came about because of the arrival of his grandchildren. This may account for the time period covered, for even as a graduate of college, the papers of the city noted his remarkable academic accomplishments. As I read I hoped that a sequel would be readily perceived, however after reading why he wrote the book, and the summary of the balance of his life he offered, a definitive biography will be likely be written by another.<br />The book is still enjoyable albeit brief, and almost exclusively confined to his years in Hungary. Those years are filled with events that have appeared in other memoirs of those who managed to survive not only the Holocaust, but also The Soviet Occupation that arrived as the former ended. Born in 1934 his recollections are necessarily spare due to his young age, however what he does recount are the memories of a very precocious child driven to succeed well before he arrived in America.<br />Some of his earliest memories, and a few that he recalls from his early teen years, are remarkable in their candor for a man so normally private. His stories are candid, innocent, and at times remarkably funny. I have read many biographies of noted people that never seemed to have much of a childhood, much less decided to share the thoughts of their youthful hearts and minds.<br />His ability to survive the Nazi's and then thrive during the Soviet Union served him well when he chose to escape and make his life in America. The drive that was so channeled and restrained by the occupation and by his religion predictably launched a career in America from the moment he arrived.<br />I enjoy reading autobiographies like that of Mr. Grove, not because he eventually became a success by most measures personal and professional that are held in high regard in this country. I enjoy being reminded of just how remarkable this country was and continues to be to attract people from across the globe. Mr. Grove speaks of how he has never faced any resentment for his success because he was an immigrant. He explains why that for the over 4 decades that have passed since his escape from Hungary, he has never returned.<br />Most of us are fairly recent immigrants to this nation. Mr. Grove did not arrive until the 1950's. And while his success has been very public and unusually great, the millions who found their way here usually contributed with the enthusiasm he did. Our nation is not perfect nor are all its citizens or those who have emigrated here. However we are a nation of immigrants, and books like this continue to keep the history of this country fresh, and by doing so always make for important reading.he does recount are the memories of a very precocious child driven to succeed well before he arrived in America.<br />Some of his earliest memories, and a few that he recalls from his early teen years, are remarkable in their candor for a man so normally private. His stories are candid, innocent, and at times remarkably funny. I have read many biographies of noted people that never seemed to have much of a childhood, much less decided to share the thoughts of their youthful hearts and minds.<br />His ability to survive the Nazi's and then thrive during the Soviet Union served him well when he chose to escape and make his life in America. The drive that was so channeled and restrained by the occupation and by his religion predictably launched a career in America from the moment he arrived.<br />I enjoy reading autobiographies like that of Mr. Grove, not because he eventually became a success by most measures personal and professional that are held in high regard in this country. I enjoy being reminded of just how remarkable this country was and continues to be to attract people from across the globe. Mr. Grove speaks of how he has never faced any resentment for his success because he was an immigrant. He explains why that for the over 4 decades that have passed since his escape from Hungary, he has never returned.<br />Most of us are fairly recent immigrants to this nation. Mr. Grove did not arrive until the 1950's. And while his success has been very public and unusually great, the millions who found their way here usually contributed with the enthusiasm he did. Our nation is not perfect nor are all its citizens or those who have emigrated here. However we are a nation of immigrants, and books like this continue to keep the history of this country fresh, and by doing so always make for important reading.	2001-11-20
1763674:US	53047425	R3J194KAYVY9PD	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Long Term Author	\\"Girl With A Pearl Earring\\", by Tracy Chevalier was a tremendously successful book that meant her second effort would have very high expectations waiting for it. Her second novel, \\"Falling Angels\\", is a very good work for a variety of reasons.<br />The author did not take the easy and often traveled path of just repeating a formula that was a success for her. Ms. Chevalier could easily have picked a new piece of art and spun another well-conceived narrative. The number of books that could be written in this manner is nearly infinite. As a writer she had both the confidence in herself, and the respect for her readers to present an entirely different type of tale, and to utilize a very different format from her first work. This story is related by the characters themselves, the reader is not given a single point of view, rather is the beneficiary of the views of many on the same event. The experience is made more interesting as the reader hears from characters that range in age from their first decade, to their seventh or eighth. Author Julian Barnes also used this format with great skill in, \\"Talking It Over\\", and the sequel, \\"Love Etc.\\" The characters were not as far ranging, however the stories were wonderful.<br />\\"Falling Angels\\", begins with the death of both Queen Victoria, and the time period that adopted her name. It is here that the writer introduces us to two families, both with daughters, but from different stations in the English view of society. Much of what the reader experiences is the youthful view of the daughters, which is, combined with the thought of a young man, a gravedigger's son. And much of what we read of takes place in, around, or as the result of events in a cemetery. An odd locale perhaps, however it is not used a locale for evil, or other familiar themes that easily come to mind. Ms. Chevalier uses this space as a focal point for the development of the younger players in the work, as well as an area that should not, but does, bring out the lesser qualities of the adults.<br />This is also the era of women marching and being imprisoned for their desire to vote. This is again used to show the divisiveness amongst otherwise friendly relations, and the tragedy to which extreme opinion can lead.<br />Those expecting a variation on her first book may at first be disappointed. However for those who continue with the work I believe they will find the novel well conceived, well written, and finally will be pleased to know that this writer is not going to rest on her laurels and churn out repetitive work. The book may not be without flaws, however, happily this is a writer at the beginning of her career, a career that promises a great many wonderful books.he lesser qualities of the adults.<br />This is also the era of women marching and being imprisoned for their desire to vote. This is again used to show the divisiveness amongst otherwise friendly relations, and the tragedy to which extreme opinion can lead.<br />Those expecting a variation on her first book may at first be disappointed. However for those who continue with the work I believe they will find the novel well conceived, well written, and finally will be pleased to know that this writer is not going to rest on her laurels and churn out repetitive work. The book may not be without flaws, however, happily this is a writer at the beginning of her career, a career that promises a great many wonderful books.	2001-11-20
1764246:US	53047425	R158Z4UTGE1FES	0393010465	73699063	Fire	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Wide But Not Deep	For any author attempting to satisfy readers after delivering a book as widely celebrated as, \\"The Perfect Storm\\", the task is almost impossible. This is the task that Sebastian Junger faced when presenting his second book to readers. The 10 stories he collects here will be familiar to many as the majority appeared in magazine form prior to being collected between these covers. With his first book he demonstrated how well he could place a reader in the midst of a tale. His writing was detailed, authentic; he gave readers a vicarious experience of feeling they were close to, if not on The Andrea Gale. He wrote what he felt he needed to write to tell the story. These are essentially magazine articles, and as such are confined to the space they were allotted.<br />The stories are well written and have the effect, intended or not, of becoming bits of autobiographical sketches of the author. I enjoyed this aspect, and it raised my general enjoyment of the collection. The amount of knowledge a reader may possess on a given topic will also determine how interesting the stories will be to a given person. With all the information that we are receiving daily about Afghanistan, his story, \\"A Lion In Winter\\", may have less impact than it might have had if the nightmare of September 11 had not happened. I am not suggesting the story is poorly done; rather its informative value may have been overtaken by current events.<br />These stories will also take you to the sites of forest fires, to Kosovo and the author's first person accounts of the evil he witnessed, to The Caribbean, and to Sierra Leone. Most of these articles have themes and endings that make the fate of The Andrea Gale much less graphic and unsettling. Much of what is relayed is from places where war is actively being pursued, or the mess that is left behind contemplated.<br />The author will frequently take an incident from the present and relate it to events no less horrible but often less well known, or worse, less acknowledged. It is at these points that his writing expands from that of a reporter speaking of a given event, to a person placing his experience in the context of a larger history. I have recently read two books documenting a trial where the issue of Dresden in World War II was prominent. Mr. Junger quotes figures from the effects of the bombing of Dresden that are not consistent with the historical record. This was the only item presented as fact that I believe to be inaccurate. I don't know whether he knew the correct appraisal when he wrote the story, however either he or his editor should have corrected it prior to the story being published in 2001. This issue is not a fatal flaw, as the events at Dresden are an example of the horrors of war. It still rates as an item worth noting for history must be as accurate as possible, and corrected if new facts emerge.s acknowledged. It is at these points that his writing expands from that of a reporter speaking of a given event, to a person placing his experience in the context of a larger history. I have recently read two books documenting a trial where the issue of Dresden in World War II was prominent. Mr. Junger quotes figures from the effects of the bombing of Dresden that are not consistent with the historical record. This was the only item presented as fact that I believe to be inaccurate. I don't know whether he knew the correct appraisal when he wrote the story, however either he or his editor should have corrected it prior to the story being published in 2001. This issue is not a fatal flaw, as the events at Dresden are an example of the horrors of war. It still rates as an item worth noting for history must be as accurate as possible, and corrected if new facts emerge.	2001-11-20
1764502:US	53047425	R1J9FH2DCATKK2	1859846319	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	3	49	74	N	N	Self-Defeating	\\"The Trial Of Henry Kissinger\\", by Christopher Hitchens does have merit. However the author is so consumed with his hatred for his subject that whatever arguments he puts forward he weakens by his complete lack of personal distance. This is certainly not a scholarly piece of historical writing. The work is very brief for the historical record it attempts to cover, it is devoid of the most basic of footnotes, and finally when an author's source is claimed to be in the possession of the author with no other corroboration, credibility is stretched if not lost.<br />Objectivity becomes an issue when the title is read. The book's dedication, \\"For the Brave victims of Henry Kissinger\\", and in the Preface the author states the book is written, \\"by a political opponent of Henry Kissinger\\". That the author feels the need to state his personal feelings after the title and the dedication, does not suggest he places much value on his reader's grasp of the obvious.<br />Mr. Kissinger is certainly a figure that can provoke strong feelings in either direction. Those authors who may loathe the man have every right to document what they see as faults in his conduct while serving the US Government or as a private citizen. However when the author is so incensed at his topic that he literally cannot restrain himself from criticizing his subject's appearance, \\"an odious schlump\\", his personal hygiene, his lack of manners at a dinner table, the titles of the subject's books, etc., whatever true merit his comments may have become burdened with histrionics. Writing that claims to set forth evidence for Mr. Kissinger's guilt and the war crimes he should be tried for, cannot take the form of a rant when reasoned argument is critical.<br />The author also digresses whenever some un-attributed claim will make an appearance in an effort to convince the reader that Mr. Kissinger literally deserves to be tried for the same crimes of those defendants at the first trials at Nuremberg. The author states that Mr. Kissinger \\"contemplated the use of nuclear weapons\\". Even if he did, so what? Not only is their no documentation of such, \\"contemplation\\", Mr. Kissinger was never in a position to initiate the release of nuclear weapons. I think it is reasonable to presume that a number of government officials have contemplated various acts that not only were beyond their ability to initiate, but may have taken place when emotion was exerting more control than logic.<br />Mr. Hitchens had the opportunity to explore how the issue of war crimes may become more frequent as the political forces of the world change. I would very much enjoy reading a work by a true historian who would follow the demands of documenting the historical record. Even now trials are taking place at The Hague for those who stand accused of crimes committed during the fighting in the former Yugoslavia.<br />The author could have written a thought-provoking work on the most serious of subjects, instead he offers a barely controlled diatribe against an individual. If Mr. Kissinger is or is not guilty of committing any war crimes, books such as this will do nothing to bring serious, objective attention to the matter. However many facts this book may contain the \\"case\\" against Mr. Kissinger (if there is one) has not been helped by this book. What is very clear is that Mr. Hitchens loathes Mr. Kissinger, what he fails to do is persuade the reader as his emotions bury his accusations. Anyone who may be guilty of a crime will not have to fear a courtroom based on writing such as this.ates that Mr. Kissinger \\"contemplated the use of nuclear weapons\\". Even if he did, so what? Not only is their no documentation of such, \\"contemplation\\", Mr. Kissinger was never in a position to initiate the release of nuclear weapons. I think it is reasonable to presume that a number of government officials have contemplated various acts that not only were beyond their ability to initiate, but may have taken place when emotion was exerting more control than logic.<br />Mr. Hitchens had the opportunity to explore how the issue of war crimes may become more frequent as the political forces of the world change. I would very much enjoy reading a work by a true historian who would follow the demands of documenting the historical record. Even now trials are taking place at The Hague for those who stand accused of crimes committed during the fighting in the former Yugoslavia.<br />The author could have written a thought-provoking work on the most serious of subjects, instead he offers a barely controlled diatribe against an individual. If Mr. Kissinger is or is not guilty of committing any war crimes, books such as this will do nothing to bring serious, objective attention to the matter. However many facts this book may contain the \\"case\\" against Mr. Kissinger (if there is one) has not been helped by this book. What is very clear is that Mr. Hitchens loathes Mr. Kissinger, what he fails to do is persuade the reader as his emotions bury his accusations. Anyone who may be guilty of a crime will not have to fear a courtroom based on writing such as this.	2001-11-20
1764572:US	53047425	R2SCG50B2H6R1Q	0471403946	749326915	Empire: A Tale of Obsession, Betrayal, and the Battle for an American Icon	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Buildings Replace Paintings	When Japan was enjoying the height of its economy members of their super rich went on buying sprees that will remain legendary for both their scope and their questionable judgment. For a time landmarks and trophy properties were being purchased by Japanese investors from the beaches of Hawaii to downtown Manhattan. There was a certain unease expressed by some in this country that too much was being sold to a handful of foreign investors. For those who followed most of these acquisitions the only aspect that was more spectacular than the absurd prices that were paid, was the speed with which the buildings were either abandoned in bankruptcy procedures, or sold back to American owners for a fraction of what had been paid a few short years earlier.<br />Rockefeller Center was a 1.4 billion dollar loss to creditors; Pebble Beach Golf Course was taken back by banks and resold for approximately 50 cents on the dollar. Beachfront hotels in Hawaii fell into disrepair as the economy in Japan crumbled when their stock market fell some 44 percent almost overnight, and has still come nowhere near to recovering. The other willingness to spend without any regard for value was on art, primarily that of the great impressionists. The market both simultaneously hit its high and began dying in the three days one Tokyo businessman paid almost 80 million for a Van Gough, and then set the all time record for a painting a day later when buying a Renoir for 82.5 million. Both paintings were repossessed by the auction houses that sold them for non-payment, so whether they truly set records is open to debate. Even the third highest amount paid for a painting, some 50+ million, again a Van Gough, which was bought by an Australian, was again repossessed for failure to pay, and eventually sold to The Getty Museum in California for a number rumored to be half what it brought at auction.<br />Until I read, \\"Empire\\", by Mitchell Pacelle I thought that the \\"enthusiasm\\" that drove these purchases had ended, not unlike the dot.com hysteria our markets created and then destroyed. However Mr. Yokoi was to carry through the 1990's the same financially unjustifiable buying that his countrymen had been destroyed by earlier. In the process he and two other family members spent time in jail, and ultimately his unusual family was left in the same devastated state as the financial assets he once held.<br />Placing a value on the baseball that was the 70th homerun ball is purely subjective. The same case can be made for art; a given piece is worth what a given individual will pay on a given day. Real estate, especially commercial real estate has very defined methodologies for determining value, for determining the return a buyer or buyers are willing to accept. Oversimplified, an entity that is buying a piece of real estate is buying the income that it is producing, and what it is reasonably expected to produce in a definable future. When an investor makes a purchase the return expected and the risk taken are key elements in any rational decision.<br />The focus of the book includes residential homes that were bought as well as The Empire State Building. Residential real estate is again defined primarily by what a willing and capable buyer will spend, and in the case of the buying this man did based only on pictures of homes that resided in countries he had never visited, suffice to say the deals were all questionable and many were marked by no thought at all.<br />The New York Landmark clearly was a textbook example of emotional behavior. The building itself and the land it sits on is own by one group of people. The right to \\"occupy\\" the entire building is owned by two people until the year 2076. The rent they pay the owners of the building would give Mr. Yokoi about a 2.5 percent return on his money, or about the same as a checking account. Had he bought Treasury Bills of The US, he could have made double that return with zero risk. The real mind bender comes when onereads that those who hold the lease until 2076, NEVER have an increase in the rent they must pay; it actually goes down for a significant portion of the lease! Take into account inflation or net present value of the value of money in decades to come, and the only real income is the psychic value an owner feels from owning the property. One of the two holders of that lease is none other than Leona Helmsley, a woman not known for her diplomacy and for playing well with others. The quotes attributed to her in this book would make a longshoreman blush.<br />None of the family members/friends that made these deals were competent to do so. I have or hold several real estate licenses, and not one of these people could have passed the state exam for New York, however they were negotiating on their own for The Empire State Building! As I mentioned, the destruction of this family is a major part of the tale. The travails include the Patriarch Mr. Yokoi spending almost 3 years in a Japanese Jail, his daughter spending a similar time either in a French Prison or confined to France, and her husband spent over 3 years in a US Prison. All of these incarcerations occurred while the battle for control of this building was taking place.<br />If my comments sound like a stretch, they are mild in comparison to what all of the details of this folly entailed. As you read this book, at some point you will be reminded of P.T. Barnum and his famous take on people, \\"there is one born every minute\\".reads that those who hold the lease until 2076, NEVER have an increase in the rent they must pay; it actually goes down for a significant portion of the lease! Take into account inflation or net present value of the value of money in decades to come, and the only real income is the psychic value an owner feels from owning the property. One of the two holders of that lease is none other than Leona Helmsley, a woman not known for her diplomacy and for playing well with others. The quotes attributed to her in this book would make a longshoreman blush.<br />None of the family members/friends that made these deals were competent to do so. I have or hold several real estate licenses, and not one of these people could have passed the state exam for New York, however they were negotiating on their own for The Empire State Building! As I mentioned, the destruction of this family is a major part of the tale. The travails include the Patriarch Mr. Yokoi spending almost 3 years in a Japanese Jail, his daughter spending a similar time either in a French Prison or confined to France, and her husband spent over 3 years in a US Prison. All of these incarcerations occurred while the battle for control of this building was taking place.<br />If my comments sound like a stretch, they are mild in comparison to what all of the details of this folly entailed. As you read this book, at some point you will be reminded of P.T. Barnum and his famous take on people, \\"there is one born every minute\\".	2001-11-20
1764657:US	53047425	R3F8A70FEGN8RL	0805064222	101663882	The Good German: A Novel	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Far More Than A Novel	\\"The Good German\\", by Joseph Kanon can be categorized by placement in a variety of genres, Thriller, Mystery, Historical Fiction, Love Story, and more. The work is certainly all of these, however I believe much more important is the study of twelve years of human behavior, presented within the context of events primarily following the close of The European phase of World War Two. I don't know that any other conflict has generated more literature than the one symbolized by the swastika, the word Holocaust, and the unprecedented Crimes Against Humanity Trials at Nuremberg. Superficially, the evil of the war is routinely placed with great ease. Even at this level it is hard to take issue with placing the blame on a man, the party he created, and the nation that joined that party, served in the SS, and made the crimes that took place possible. What happened when the fighting stopped, when the shooting war with The Axis ended, and the Cold War with The Soviet Union began? The latter had really begun prior to the first one ending.<br />The shades of gray that dominated the conduct of The Allies immediately following the end of hostilities, and the repercussions that would follow for decades, is brilliantly set side by side with conduct during the war. Mr. Kanon never minimizes any of the horror that took place; he questions none of the atrocities that were committed. He does bring post-war reality to his tale that cannot be said to match the actions of The Third Reich; he does however absolutely portray conduct on all sides, which traditional history would rather marginalize. Nothing is ever as simple as it seems, and while there were episodes of good versus evil, and events that were black and white, inconvenient shades of gray were everywhere.<br />Without exception all of the players in this book are guilty of some form of aberrant behavior, which outside of the circumstance of war would never be questioned as wrong. However when placed within the context of World War Two, which was unique for the range and intensity of the evil it spread, do the judgments and answers remain so clear?<br />A person is put on trial at war's end for collaborating with The Nazi SS; let us say the person facilitated the capture of Jews for transportation to death camps. The jury would probably not spend a great deal of time deliberating this example. Same example with a bit more detail, the person is a Jew who was given the option of pointing out other Jews in exchange for their life and the lives of their family. This offer comes after the ritual sadism of a SS interrogation. How many family members would choose death for themselves and their family? What would the readers of this book choose given the alternatives?<br />It is true that Nuremberg placed on trial and executed or imprisoned what could be referred to as the, \\"Marquis Players\\", of The Third Reich. Nice and neat, black and white. At war's end there were brilliant scientists that lead the world in rocketry, aircraft design, and a host of other sciences. If they had been placed on trial persons like Werner Van Braun would not have been working for NASA, he very likely would have been dead, or would have been in Spandau Prison. The Scenario that was viewed with more trepidation was these truly gifted minds would spend years on Soviet soil advancing Soviet capabilities, and that was not viewed as a risk worth taking. The result was each country that could, rounded up as many of these scientists as possible, together with their papers and families, we gathered ours and brought them to the US. Viewed as a strictly pragmatic choice, the decision to utilize these people with disregard for their wartime activities can be defended with ease. The defense also requires that ethics, morality, humanity, call it what you will, must be tossed over the side like so much ballast on a sinking ship. The selective enforcement of justice and the contortions of logic that these decisions demand, are the core of this work. The presentation is little short of brilliant.<br />Replace the word German in the title with person, and you are much closer to the core of this book. Right and wrong is defined on a case-by-case basis, and is infinitely fluid. What Mr. Kanon has done is brought this conduct to bear on every level. Twisted decisions are as much a part of personal relationships as they are at the conference table at Potsdam. Deception is as routine between family members as it is with Stalin and whomever he speaks with. Every decision is reduced to only having to be justified for the moment it is contemplated. Once made, the past is shunted aside, and the future is clean. This expediency is as flawed long-term as it is without justification when made. The love story aspect is riddled with deception, crime, and repugnance. Yet you will likely be hoping for a happy ending for two of the participants. Take the same event out of the context of post World War Two Berlin, and the sympathy dissolves.<br />Joseph Kanon has written a remarkable book that deals with one of the darkest periods of human behavior. He does this without rancor, without preaching, without offering only two colors to place each decision in. To write such a work not only pays tribute to the mind of the author, but also the adroitness with which he presents very real moral labyrinths. I found myself at once wishing this was a pure scholarly history book, and at the same moments being pleased with the novel form the author chose. His format allows for more dispassionate reasoned contemplation because it is a novel, and not a heavily footnoted documentary. Either method would likely bring the reader to the same end, however Mr. Kanon's is much more user-friendly.f this work. The presentation is little short of brilliant.<br />Replace the word German in the title with person, and you are much closer to the core of this book. Right and wrong is defined on a case-by-case basis, and is infinitely fluid. What Mr. Kanon has done is brought this conduct to bear on every level. Twisted decisions are as much a part of personal relationships as they are at the conference table at Potsdam. Deception is as routine between family members as it is with Stalin and whomever he speaks with. Every decision is reduced to only having to be justified for the moment it is contemplated. Once made, the past is shunted aside, and the future is clean. This expediency is as flawed long-term as it is without justification when made. The love story aspect is riddled with deception, crime, and repugnance. Yet you will likely be hoping for a happy ending for two of the participants. Take the same event out of the context of post World War Two Berlin, and the sympathy dissolves.<br />Joseph Kanon has written a remarkable book that deals with one of the darkest periods of human behavior. He does this without rancor, without preaching, without offering only two colors to place each decision in. To write such a work not only pays tribute to the mind of the author, but also the adroitness with which he presents very real moral labyrinths. I found myself at once wishing this was a pure scholarly history book, and at the same moments being pleased with the novel form the author chose. His format allows for more dispassionate reasoned contemplation because it is a novel, and not a heavily footnoted documentary. Either method would likely bring the reader to the same end, however Mr. Kanon's is much more user-friendly.	2001-11-20
1791771:US	53047425	R2J9DZYFG8Q5CC	0871138115	204276964	Yonder Stands Your Orphan	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Quite A Collection	\\"Yonder Stands Your Orphan\\", by Barry Hannah brings together dozens of characters who span the human range of strange and bizarre, and are ruled by the strangest and cruelest of all. The area he has created is one of the spots where having arrived after a wrong turn on the highway you find you are through the looking glass. In this instance, a long way through the looking glass.<br />This book purports to be a, \\"searing picture of The American South\\". I hope that part of the introduction is as unlikely as this many dysfunctional players gathering in one place. I cannot imagine anyone living in the area of The American South he portrays being pleased with his version. The book may be intended more as dark humor than any sort of realistic portrayal, however if that is the case, it is well hidden.<br />This is a place where most have some unsavory past, and often share it with more than one other of the players in the book. Where skeletal remains are not a cause for an investigation, but rather as friends to sit in the moonlight with. The author has also created one of the great predators of fiction in Mortimer. If there was ever a person with absolutely no redeeming value as a life form, it is this character.<br />There is much that will have to be left for your reading of the book, as the action goes light-years beyond illicit liquor, and petty crimes. Barry Hannah has created a very dark locale and filled in with the darkest of human impulses, actions, and abuses. The book is not a gratuitous ride through low level humanity; in fact the players in the book are generally so abject in their behavior that they cease to cause even mild alarm as the book progresses. The book is rather beguiling even though you may be hoping for the graphic end to many you will read about. This is most definitely a book unlike one you have read before, so if a new view on the lower levels of human behavior sounds interesting, read away.	2001-10-29
1792453:US	53047425	R21VRDPCMMKHDE	0375504206	981786419	White Swan, Black Swan: Stories	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An Indictment	Adrienne Sharp has written a very good collection of short stories. The subject is consistent throughout all the tales, and the theme she adheres to is not complimentary of its subject. Finding a good book about a subject that is of interest, and possibly a topic that the reader knows something about is not always easy. One measure of the quality of this book is that it is a subject I knew little about, and had slight interest in. If you are a great fan of this performing art, this book probably will not sit well, for it does little to romanticize the art, rather it consistently elaborates on the dark, and almost deviant behavior of the participants.<br />There is a disclaimer at the beginning that says that much of what the reader will see is the product of the author's imagination. However, at the end of the book there is a list of biographies the author used, so how close this book is to reality is hard to judge. The author also spent years in the ballet, so it is not unreasonable to presume some of what she has written was experienced or witnessed.<br />There are major talents that will be familiar to the reader, Margot Fonteyn, George Balanchine, Rudolf Nureyev, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Alexander Godunov, and many more. The author never questions their talent, at least when they are at their best, however when it comes to their private lives, and their conduct toward their peers, these people are often very easy to dislike despite the talent they had. Their private lives are often self-destructive which is in keeping with the general theme of the book.<br />There are moments when the brilliance of those that practice this art is described with all the admiration for their gifts they deserve. The book in general is a portrayal of a life that rewards a tiny fraction of those that participate, and even those that do rise to stardom are rarely more than miserable. This feeling is present whether the topic is of the youngest of children just beginning their first lessons, to adolescents who already are abusing drugs to keep their weight down. For those who are allowed to advance, most will never be more than human background.<br />I enjoyed the book, however it will not endear this art to you. This is certainly one writer's view of the world of ballet, and I am sure there are many others who would proclaim its virtues with the same enthusiasm, its darker sides are displayed with here. An interesting collection of stories that seem to be much closer to non-fiction, rather than the pure creation of imagination.s, to adolescents who already are abusing drugs to keep their weight down. For those who are allowed to advance, most will never be more than human background.<br />I enjoyed the book, however it will not endear this art to you. This is certainly one writer's view of the world of ballet, and I am sure there are many others who would proclaim its virtues with the same enthusiasm, its darker sides are displayed with here. An interesting collection of stories that seem to be much closer to non-fiction, rather than the pure creation of imagination.	2001-10-29
1800287:US	53047425	R28U2WXAS49Q5R	0786707739	50158188	According to Queeney	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Booker Committee	This is novel number 16 for Ms. Beryl Bainbridge. In addition to these she has written an additional 4 works. Of the first 15 novels, 5 have been nominated for the prestigious Booker Award, however it has never been granted to her work. If there is another writer who has had one third of their work nominated but not rewarded, I have not come across one. Many other awards have found their way to this tremendous storyteller; I hope the Booker Folks catch up.<br />\\"According To Queeney\\", demonstrates once again the ease with which Ms. Beryl Bainbridge can reach, both back into history and to some of the great players of their times, and not only grasp, but create wonderful new tales. The century of choice this time is the 18th, and she chooses the formidable Samuel Johnson as her focus. This person alone would be plenty for most writers, however she has added actor David Garrick, poet Oliver Goldsmith, novelist Fanny Burney, and artist Joshua Reynolds. Each of these people could fill their own book, and more than one has. The brilliance of this work is that the author manages to bring them all together, give them all they're due, and does so in a fairly brief 216 pages. She does not merely name drop or make a passing reference. She manages to make all of the various players memorable, however brief their words allotted may appear to be. The truth is they read with much greater length.<br />A young counterpoint to Johnson is the Queeney of the title. An extremely precocious child, she is a favorite of Johnson's as well as a talented young mind he seeks to cultivate. This same Queeney becomes a correspondent for a researcher investigating her memories of her young years, as they relate to her and her mother, the latter of the two who Johnson becomes emotionally attached to. The mother eventually becomes available for marriage, and the events surrounding this opportunity bring the threads of the story together, and then to a close.<br />This is one of the best books that Ms. Bainbridge has written. I hope the people who nominate and then award The Booker Prize, once again nominate this work, which they make a decision that differs from those in the past. If they do not, when her next work is released, she will then be the 6 times nominated author for the award.Ms. Bainbridge has written. I hope the people who nominate and then award The Booker Prize, once again nominate this work, which they make a decision that differs from those in the past. If they do not, when her next work is released, she will then be the 6 times nominated author for the award.	2001-10-22
1800809:US	53047425	R2FUQ1T5SHJRBE	0399147519	784516648	The Death of Sweet Mister	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Tragedy In The Ozarks	Mr. Daniel Woodrell's novel, \\"The Death Of Sweet Mister\\", continues a long tradition of tragic stories set in the poor, rural, and seemingly hidden places in this country. The settings for these tales often seem set deep in forests and mountains, and are only vaguely attached to familiar names found on maps. These locales exist on the fringe, where roads are dirt, neighbors distant. Perhaps it is the isolation that nourishes the behavior found in this story. The ease with which accountability can be shaken off certainly is a catalyst. These books also hold a certain mystique. As long as there are great writers penning the tales, there seems to be an audience.<br />There is not much to like about any of the characters in this book. They do not like themselves, and they use others primarily for exploitation. Exploitation that ranges from the familiar to the taboo is ever present. The character, who is in the title of this story, is subject to a variety of abuses he either only sees, or is personally the victim of. He is a young man throughout the book, however he ages rapidly as what he witnesses dehumanizes him.<br />Many familiar characters are here, the abusive stepfather, the mother as victim, abuse, drugs, and a void of any reference point for normal behavior. The difference is that this time the tragedy falls on those you do not expect, and their fates serve to change a young man's mind and behavior the way cancer would rot a mind. His behavior transforms from that of a victim, to being an imitator, to a betrayer and finally a controller of the unlikeliest of people.<br />I enjoyed the book even though there was nothing redeeming about a single person in the story. The author managed to take a topic, and remove it from the clich&eacute;, and present readers with a new view. This is the first book I have read by this writer; it most certainly will not be the last.	2001-10-22
1805816:US	53047425	RA7SER8HQWI30	076790432X	395553659	The Second Coming of Steve Jobs	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Will There Be A Third	\\"The Second Coming Of Steve Jobs\\", by Alan Deutschman is a fairly interesting read. It is limited as a biography as the subject did not participate in the book. Everything that is offered is based primarily on recollections of conversations and events, which while amusing don't really give the reader the feeling that Steve Jobs has really been portrayed in more than a superficial manner.<br />The book is better in the first half as opposed to an ending that is best described as repetitious. What the book devolves into is example after example of either behavior by Steve Jobs that many would find eccentric, and some may find bizarre. I don't think readers need dozens of examples of his infantile behavior of ridiculing people who can manage to work for him. The concept of the spoiled, immensely wealthy, and often juvenile behavior of silicon kings and queens is not a new discovery. There is also an over abundance of gushing admirers that is understandable until the reader learns that many of these people were his victims, some more than once.<br />When the book does offer glimpses of how he managed not once, but twice to dramatically take center stage in the computer industry, and with Pixar establish a new definition of animated film, you cannot help but be impressed with a man who clearly is extraordinary. Like Bill Gates he has often negotiated business deals that were hugely advantageous to both he and his company from people that you think would have had better judgment. The story of Ross Perot is one of the more amusing parts of the book.<br />The most concrete detail to be had is regarding the multi decade development of Pixar, and the people who grew the company from an idea to the magic 3-D animation company it has become. The reason there is depth to the Pixar study is precisely because Steve Jobs bought the company after it had developed for many years, and then was basically ignored by the founders as they went about running and creating Pixar with his money, but without his presence. It is said he visited Pixar less than once a year for the better part of a decade, and when Pixar creators showed him, \\"dailies\\", there were for him only, the real work was viewed the next day.<br />The book also offers brief views of other towering egos like Jeffrey Katzenberg, Larry Ellison, and Michael Eisner. There is no denying the success these men have had; however one wonders if it is because of their personalities or in spite of them.<br />My comment regarding &quot;will there be a third coming&quot; of Steve Jobs came to mind from a comment the author made. He was extolling the fact that Steve Jobs had come back to Apple, and raised the value of the company from $3 billion to $16 billion. The company is back down to $6 billion in value and suffers from some of the same policies that nearly killed the company the first time. There is no denying the talent of this man, however his refusal to open up his machines, his actual preference that they be bolted shut to the consumer, seems to ensure his, \\"Insanely Great\\", products will always have a tiny following, and not the number of users they deserve.ey, but without his presence. It is said he visited Pixar less than once a year for the better part of a decade, and when Pixar creators showed him, \\"dailies\\", there were for him only, the real work was viewed the next day.<br />The book also offers brief views of other towering egos like Jeffrey Katzenberg, Larry Ellison, and Michael Eisner. There is no denying the success these men have had; however one wonders if it is because of their personalities or in spite of them.<br />My comment regarding &quot;will there be a third coming&quot; of Steve Jobs came to mind from a comment the author made. He was extolling the fact that Steve Jobs had come back to Apple, and raised the value of the company from $3 billion to $16 billion. The company is back down to $6 billion in value and suffers from some of the same policies that nearly killed the company the first time. There is no denying the talent of this man, however his refusal to open up his machines, his actual preference that they be bolted shut to the consumer, seems to ensure his, \\"Insanely Great\\", products will always have a tiny following, and not the number of users they deserve.	2001-10-18
1807426:US	53047425	R25GGGTK8AJ9DV	0679403922	788319158	The Cold Six Thousand	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Extreme Read	This is the first work of Mr. Ellroy's that I have read. My comments are probably appropriate for other newcomers as this may not be the only time he has written a novel as this one is constructed. The novel is unlike anything else I have read. The first test of whether you will like this work, or quickly put it down, is how well you adapt to almost 700 pages of rapid fire prose, presented as brief sentences, and occasionally sentence fragments. There are times when passages actually rhyme, although I think these moments were unplanned. If you imagine a sentence where a person may perform several tasks, or have multiple thoughts, or even use more than one adjective, then just make a sentence of each individual action. Every movement is presented as a stand-alone event; every thought is singular, every action broken down in to component parts.<br />I had several false starts with this book, however once I adjusted to its extremely rapid-fire cadence, the format ceased to be unusual. Do not switch back and forth from this and a more traditional book for I believe few would manage to stay with Mr. Ellroy. I don't know whether this was an experiment on his part or a specific format he felt best carried his thoughts to readers. I am inclined to believe it was the latter.<br />The book covers a period of time from the JFK assassination up to the election for president that would bring Nixon to The White House. There have been many takes on this time period and how historic events not only took place, but that they may also have been engineered. Whether you feel Oswald was a lone gunman or not, and how you feel about the circumstances regarding the killing of both Martin Luther King, and RFK, the book is an interesting read. Read, \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\", as a novel or as counter factual history and the book works. For those who do feel there was a conspiracy or two or three regarding the events this book covers, the reader will enjoy the work based on how well the author's thoughts match the reader's.<br />The world this book travels in is one of distrust, paranoia, conspiracy, betrayal, and every other emotion that would disillusion a person. The author may have broken the prose in to as many pieces as he did, as that is a way that people in these situations would think, it is how they would act. Planning is not done in a rush of thought, rather step by step. Long-term relationships that fail or turn do so over time. The ultimate break comes after a series of events that taken as a whole become unbearable. Paranoia too takes time to infect a person, especially if it is to kill a relationship that has existed, and based on trust for years.<br />The book is well worth whatever extra effort is required to get acquainted with the format. What may seem tedious at first becomes methodical as the story unfolds. Not everyone will enjoy the book, I stuck it out, and I'm glad I did.s thoughts match the reader's.<br />The world this book travels in is one of distrust, paranoia, conspiracy, betrayal, and every other emotion that would disillusion a person. The author may have broken the prose in to as many pieces as he did, as that is a way that people in these situations would think, it is how they would act. Planning is not done in a rush of thought, rather step by step. Long-term relationships that fail or turn do so over time. The ultimate break comes after a series of events that taken as a whole become unbearable. Paranoia too takes time to infect a person, especially if it is to kill a relationship that has existed, and based on trust for years.<br />The book is well worth whatever extra effort is required to get acquainted with the format. What may seem tedious at first becomes methodical as the story unfolds. Not everyone will enjoy the book, I stuck it out, and I'm glad I did.	2001-10-17
1807978:US	53047425	R3EEN50JDMV2D4	0670030058	14543326	After the Plague: AND OTHER STORIES	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Unique View And Clever Pen	T.C. Boyle's, \\"After The Plague\\", is a collection of 16 stories that range from clever observations that most of us don't see, to views on current events, and finally a few stories bordering on surreal.<br />Some of the stories have plot lines that are not necessarily unique, however he has the ability to turn them around, to find a new angle, and establish a fresh perspective. Several are also much more haunting than they would have been a few months ago. \\"Friendly Skies\\", almost predicted the actions of a passenger on the news recently, and even though a scenario that is played out in, \\"After The Plague\\", is not at the forefront of people's minds, it certainly holds your attention in a manner it may not have a short time ago. Other stories like, \\"Termination Dust\\", bear no relation to what the title suggests. In this case the story takes place in Alaska, and is certainly a bit quirky, but the title represents something truly harmless. There is another tale, which is entitled in a manner that exactly fits the story it introduces. It deals with a controversy that has divided millions, it is blunt and powerful, however I defer mentioning the title here.<br />One of the most entertaining stories is, \\"Black And White\\". A tale has never had a more accurate title. This view in to the world of two sisters displays eccentric and outrageous human behavior, and is arguably the most unique of the 16 stories. Read quickly it creates one tone, read with deliberation, the message is as opposite as the colors in the title.<br />This is the first work I have read by this author, it will certainly not be the last. His stories may not appeal to all readers, but his flair with a pen, and documenting his view of life will be appreciated.	2001-10-17
1809488:US	53047425	RRHQDYNWT6CST	0375409068	997736171	Night Crossing	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Mystified	This is the first work I have read by Don J. Snyder. \\"Night Crossing\\", has an inviting cover, with an interior that does not match. I understand that the notes inside the jacket are meant to interest a reader enough to proceed with the book, these notes tell the reader more than half the story, and the minority of the tale that remains is of little interest.<br />The novel begins with a promising look into plans of terrorists that are unusual as well as murderous. The plans are an example of any ends justifying the means. Some may find the plan ultimately acceptable; many readers will find this the most, and only enjoyable part of the book. The story begins with all the elements of a thriller, and then changes directions and locale, in a manner that can only be called jarring.<br />This may be a case of a male writer attempting to document extremely distressing circumstances for his female character. Some writers can write of either gender with skill, this is not the case with Mr. Snyder, at least in this book. I found the woman's behavior unbelievable when she encounters her first shock. I found the international trip, and descriptions of a visit to a lingerie shop, very funny, and that was absolutely not what the reader should be feeling. The writer then places Nora in a terribly humiliating situation that seemed to be gratuitous.<br />When Nora makes a decision to flee her home to a country that places a high value on Christian Religion, with the idea of solving a problem she has, any sense of a plot and a reasonable story come to an end. The circumstances she volunteers for, goes along with, or demands to be included in, are not credible. The tale dissolves into a series of events Nora has no ability to deal with, despite the writer forcing her through the tale.<br />I really did enjoy the start of the book, and had the story retained the elements of its introductory phase, \\"Night Crossing\\", could have been a good book. Unfortunately it slips into clich&eacute;, and then slides farther into events that require a suspension of disbelief that was beyond me. There were also numerous events that popped up, generally involving water, which read as though dropped into the tale as opposed to supporting it.<br />His other books may be tremendous, however, \\"Night Crossing\\", cannot be one of his better works.hen slides farther into events that require a suspension of disbelief that was beyond me. There were also numerous events that popped up, generally involving water, which read as though dropped into the tale as opposed to supporting it.<br />His other books may be tremendous, however, \\"Night Crossing\\", cannot be one of his better works.	2001-10-16
1810248:US	53047425	R13P3SJDP5QNDS	0399147632	461044774	The Music of the Spheres	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Trust Charles Palliser	Charles Palliser is one of the great writers practicing his art today. When I read his endorsement of this new author, I didn't feel he was likely to mislead, for his is not a name that I see endorsing every other book I pick up. His endorsement of Elizabeth Redfern's, \\"The Music Of The Spheres\\", and his explanation of why it fascinated him, all are spot on accurate.<br />Mr. Palliser writes very complex novels set centuries ago, so when he feels this author's work is complex, and evocative of time periods that are centuries passed, it is high praise indeed. Late 18th Century London at war is the setting for this debut novel. England and France are once again at each other's throats, and London is not just a haven for French refugees, but for France, her spies, her duplicitous ex-patriots, scientists, and men and women of evil.<br />The spheres and their movement are the planets both known, and those that are sought by a variety of characters. Some search for fame, others search to bring closure to madness. The music of the spheres is the beauty they contain as much of nature does. Planets have a purpose, they are predictable, and they are not so much reduced to the beauty of the equations that prove their behavior, as they elevate the art of mathematics.<br />People can also be depended upon to be reliable especially when driven by a dark obsession, when others, for gain or for sport, manipulate them. The dark side here is that women with hair that is red have become the target of a killer. A murderer who kills consistently, methodically, and has who shadows another who precedes him, and who he cares for in his own demented way.<br />The author adds a detective who not only has suffered the loss of a daughter; those who seek not only to discredit him, but also protect those that may have cost him his only child constantly hamper him. Even a stargazing family member wavers between his loyalties, who are his real masters, where do his loyalties lie?<br />Place all of this and so much more in a beautifully rendered London when she is not at her best, when she is dark and duplicitous, and you are placed in a powerful setting of gloom and treachery in the streets, and in the hearts of those who move upon them. Explanations can turn on what appears to be chance, a comment made in passing, or the contents of a man's purse.<br />Ms. Redfern has written a tremendous debut, a book I recommend without condition, and an author who I hope is producing many works to follow.f this and so much more in a beautifully rendered London when she is not at her best, when she is dark and duplicitous, and you are placed in a powerful setting of gloom and treachery in the streets, and in the hearts of those who move upon them. Explanations can turn on what appears to be chance, a comment made in passing, or the contents of a man's purse.<br />Ms. Redfern has written a tremendous debut, a book I recommend without condition, and an author who I hope is producing many works to follow.	2001-10-15
1814666:US	53047425	R1TI2KABE4IPOM	0786701463	167788950	The Bottle Factory Outing (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Legs	A wrist rolls the ruby red liquid of the fermented grape, and then pauses, and the glass is watched. For wine does not indiscriminately settle in a glass like lesser liquids. It falls in lines, and by these lines the spirit is partially judged, its legs are appraised.<br />I have read enough of Ms. Beryl Bainbridge's writing to state comfortably that there is probably no topic that she cannot spin a great tale from. \\"The Bottle Factory Outing\\", is above all else about people, which is in keeping with the author's previous work. The primary characters are two women that while they share the same bed, with an impenetrable wall of pillows between them, could not be more different. One is passive, almost a victim, desiring more not to upset her day-to-day existence than to stand up for herself. The other is a warrior defending not only what she perceives as her territory, but any turf that may catch her eye as well. The former may be an unsure individual, however she does not delude herself. The latter has confidence that causes her to believe that which she wants despite any reality she witnesses.<br />The book is unique as it has more than one instance when the story could reasonably end. The story is in no way overextended, just marvelously structured. The event of course is the employee outing and all that takes place from the early morning start, to a surrealistic second act, and finally the disturbing close of the third. Personalities that have become familiar do not conduct themselves in keeping with the book's start. Honor, which is repeatedly called upon to justify, draw or inflict guilt, becomes many things other than an honorable trait. And finally some of the worst traits of humanity do not begin and end with a single act, but are repeatedly compounded by a rationalized conspiracy.<br />If you have never read this writer's work, you most probably have missed enjoying a wonderfully talented mind. You may pick a work of hers at random and not be disappointed.<br />And the next time you raise a glass of wine, I guaranty you will think of this book.br />And the next time you raise a glass of wine, I guaranty you will think of this book.	2001-10-10
1820778:US	53047425	R16AMCFBIEH8RN	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Have Spare Light Bulbs At Hand	This is only the second novel I have read by Ms. Val McDermid, the first was, \\"A Place Of Execution\\", and it left me as uneasy as I imagine the writer wished. \\"Killing The Shadows\\", is again a wonderful book that should be read under highly lit conditions, with standby lights and perhaps a generator. This lady's work does not just get under the skin; her words burrow into the marrow of your bones, and when appropriate the geometric center of the brain. The picture of her on the jacket has her taking the measure of a potential reader, as if deciding whether they can handle her invasive writing.<br />This particular book contains events that many will find gruesome and seriously deviant to say the least. What is interesting is these passages are from the imagined work of other writers, so the initial impulse is not to credit her with the grisly scenes, rather a third party. The passages she uses are not gratuitous. They are integral to introducing the behavior of a serial killer, and a possible source for his demented inspiration. What drives the killer is more complicated than that, or this book would not have Ms. McDermid's name upon it. These portions of the book are also a small part of the reading, and should not discourage anyone from enjoying this writer's craft.<br />The characters she creates are little short of brilliant. One of them is a PHD Candidate named Terry. If this character were based on a real female, she would be on many men's list of women to meet, and also a woman who would be more than a match for most. The author presents very bright, attractive, strong women without their needing to mimic the undesirable characteristics of their male counterparts. Terry is one of the best female characters I have read in some time.<br />A certain genre of writers are the targets of this book's killer, or are they? The best part of that query is that you will not know until the last pages of the book why everything took place as it did. One of the keys to a great thriller/mystery is how well the author sustains uncertainty and suspense. No author does this better that Ms. McDermid. She sets blind alleys, manipulates misdirection, and false conclusions brilliantly. No matter how many books you have read that required an answer to, \\"Who...\\", you will find this lady's work on par with anyone's.<br />Unconditionally recommended.eat thriller/mystery is how well the author sustains uncertainty and suspense. No author does this better that Ms. McDermid. She sets blind alleys, manipulates misdirection, and false conclusions brilliantly. No matter how many books you have read that required an answer to, \\"Who...\\", you will find this lady's work on par with anyone's.<br />Unconditionally recommended.	2001-10-03
1821890:US	53047425	RCLYFOTFBQUNV	0871137798	9024377	Antarctica	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Talented New Writer	Some very well known writers endorse the sixteen short stories that form the debut of Ms. Claire Keegan entitled, \\"Antarctica\\". There are times these enthusiastic comments are a poor indicator of what the reader will find inside. This is not the case with Ms. Keegan's work. Not every story is memorable, however most of them are, and that is enough reason to look forward to what this writer may present readers in the future.<br />The collection's range is as diverse as the locales they unfold in. Ms. Keegan's talent is not limited to the land of her birth. She writes beautifully of Ireland, however she also writes as competently of Mississippi. Like all good writers she not only has an eye for detail and the ability to put what she sees on a page, she also has an ear for dialects that she can reproduce with equal skill.<br />Her stories range from the terribly sad when an event has unbalanced a person, to one who has been second all her life until she takes primacy with a set of scissors, and does so without harm. There are stories of misplaced guilt, respect for the past and those that remain as representatives of it. Her stories are not sentimental; they are uncluttered, and at times uncomfortably direct.<br />I doubt this is the last work we will see from this lady, and I look forward to reading her work again.	2001-10-02
1822118:US	53047425	R1COVHX10G15S8	0151008469	927332338	The Company of Strangers	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Exceptional	Author Robert Wilson has written 5 novels; unfortunately for readers this is only the second that has been offered The U.S. His debut, A Small Death Is Lisbon, was a very good book and was recognized with literary honors. The Company Of Strangers, elevates his work to an even higher level, which if he continues to maintain will place him amongst the great writers of espionage/thriller/mystery. For those unfamiliar with his work I believe the best comparison would be Mr. John LeCarres earlier works, and some of the best that Mr. Robert Ludlum ever wrote. These are not techno-thrillers where plot and theme are replaced by endless descriptions of military hardware. Mr. Wilson writes detailed character studies that are as complex as the situations he places them in; when these aspects are combined with the talent to tell a great story that spans decades, this is an author who gives a reader all that can be expected from a great novel.<br />The time line will take you from London of WWII, to the dawning of Glasnost in The Soviet Union, with stops in Berlin East and West, Lisbon and other locales. The book is about spies, very human, not the 007 Hollywood varieties. The motivation of why they work for a cause or country, what may make them turn, and sometimes turn once again is beautifully written and marvelously complex. The writer explores what takes place when an agent during a war finds that the country he once served, or perhaps betrayed, once the war concludes is now in the enemys camp. Who is his new master, who does he deceive this time if deception is the choice? Does an agent serving a foreign power that becomes the victor continue to serve, or are the ideals he thought were being served prove to have been a fraud and new choices are made?<br />The agents that take center stage in this book are all presented in various levels of detail, however none are vague. In the midst of the wild swings in world politics a variety of people have their beliefs confirmed, betrayed, and have their personal motives subjected to doubt. Do they spy as an act of revenge, a perceived wrong that was inflicted, is the spying based on theology, or is it monetary, or is it the game itself that is the attraction?<br />In addition to all that I have mentioned, there is much more, and there are few authors who could carry out the complexity of plot without it become cloudy, and he includes revelations that in most hands would be clich&eacute; at best, and more than likely laughable.<br />The Company Of Strangers, does not wind down as the end arrives. The author literally brings his story to the conclusion on the final page. Mr. Wilson also has not succumbed to churning out work and presenting it in a brief and incomplete manner. He takes all the time he needs, and if that requires the better part of 500 pages, that is what he uses. You have the sense that you are reading exactly what the writer intended. His goal was to produce a great book, not a shallow utilitarian read, written with an eye toward a screenplay, or any other secondary use.<br />This man is a brilliant writer; I recommend his work without condition.efs confirmed, betrayed, and have their personal motives subjected to doubt. Do they spy as an act of revenge, a perceived wrong that was inflicted, is the spying based on theology, or is it monetary, or is it the game itself that is the attraction?<br />In addition to all that I have mentioned, there is much more, and there are few authors who could carry out the complexity of plot without it become cloudy, and he includes revelations that in most hands would be clich at best, and more than likely laughable.<br />The Company Of Strangers, does not wind down as the end arrives. The author literally brings his story to the conclusion on the final page. Mr. Wilson also has not succumbed to churning out work and presenting it in a brief and incomplete manner. He takes all the time he needs, and if that requires the better part of 500 pages, that is what he uses. You have the sense that you are reading exactly what the writer intended. His goal was to produce a great book, not a shallow utilitarian read, written with an eye toward a screenplay, or any other secondary use.<br />This man is a brilliant writer; I recommend his work without condition.	2001-10-02
1822587:US	53047425	R3HPIK746BVGI9	0393020444	932833170	The Holocaust on Trial	Books	5	8	19	N	N	A Spectator&iquest;s View Of The Irving Trial	Lying About Hitler, by Professor Richard J. Evans was the first book I read regarding the trial of David Irving. Professor Evans was part of the defense team, and he prepared a sweeping indictment of David Irving and his writings that were an integral part of Irving losing the suit he had brought. Mr. D.D. Guttenplan author of, The Holocaust On Trial, describes himself as a reporter. This man was not only present at the trial, but on several occasions spoke with David Irving, and was allowed access to his files. The idea that a trial was needed to prove that the Holocaust did take place despite the writings of the rabid anti-Semite David Irving is almost beyond belief. I highly recommend both of these books, for while they cover the same event, the first is from a participant, while the second is from an observer.<br />Mr. Guttenplan does much more than report on this trial. He takes the reader through the difficulties of why proving history is so difficult. The idea of proving historical events, especially one as prominent as the Nazi Programs of WWII seems absurd. Absurdity is quickly dismissed when a judge is brought into a courtroom along with history, and the record of past events must meet legal thresholds. Again this would seem to be an astonishingly easy case to make; however the opposite is true.<br />Eyewitness survivors were never put on the stand, for a legitimate lapse in memory of whether a set of doors open inward or outward can mean the difference between documenting an accepted fact, and stating an error that is meaningless in the eyes of anyone except those that exploit these issues to place widely held, accurate beliefs into question. These are the deniers of history, the intentional revisionists like David Irving who either takes pieces of information and presents them in a distorted manner, or when there is nothing to distort, he and his like will fabricate whatever lies are necessary to falsify history in the hopes of sensationalizing their works of fiction and the sales thereof. The trial exposed David Irving for what he is, a self-promoting anti-Semite, who while having excellent secretarial skills and a man who has amassed prodigious records, is still, in the end nor more than a anti-Semite and a historical hack.<br />Mr. Guttenplan also raises and discusses other issues that are sure to be controversial with some people. He raises some consequences that occur when a group becomes defined by a single event, and when the same group selectively includes their group as victims while not mentioning the others that shared the same fate. History needs above all to be accurate, and the fact that the number of non-Jews killed in camps is measured in 7 figures is no less important a matter than the number of Jews who perished. That the intent to destroy the Jews as a people is historically accepted, was unique, and especially depraved. Some estimates state 20 million civilians died during the war, all must be remembered, and to do so in no way diminishes what was distinctly horrific about the specific plans for the Jewish People.<br />There is a quote that many will be familiar with that is from the German Pastor Martin Niemoller. His words were meant to document how The Third Reich of Hitler methodically came and took away groups as others did not help, as they were not a part of the group. The familiar lines end, Then when they came for me, there was no one left who could stand up for me. The pastor refers to 5 groups in a very specific order, why would anyone try to change the mans words? He spoke of horror without hierarchy, why would it be changed, and why would anyone believe a change would be beneficial? The list of publications that have routinely misquoted the Pastors words will surprise any reader. The fact that the quote was manipulated and then enshrined in The United States Holocaust Museum, is not only troubling, it plays into the hands of those who seek any point to minimize history, to discredit those who manipulate it.<br />The order that the Pastor listed was as follows, first they came for the Communists, then the, Social Democrats, then came the trade unionists, and then the Jews, and then they came for me. So why would a people who have suffered as the Jews had, hand to their opponents material to harm them with? Why were the first people mentioned, the Communists, eliminated from the version at The Holocaust Museum? Why are the Jews routinely moved to the first that, they came for? What difference does it make? It certainly does not change what happened, the violence, the crimes. Mr. Guttenplan offers the following explanation that is troubling,  because arguments about the Holocaust have always been about politics as well as history.<br />The truth honors all of those that were killed. I have yet to read any truth that would damage the memory of the victims.ze history, to discredit those who manipulate it.<br />The order that the Pastor listed was as follows, first they came for the Communists, then the, Social Democrats, then came the trade unionists, and then the Jews, and then they came for me. So why would a people who have suffered as the Jews had, hand to their opponents material to harm them with? Why were the first people mentioned, the Communists, eliminated from the version at The Holocaust Museum? Why are the Jews routinely moved to the first that, they came for? What difference does it make? It certainly does not change what happened, the violence, the crimes. Mr. Guttenplan offers the following explanation that is troubling,  because arguments about the Holocaust have always been about politics as well as history.<br />The truth honors all of those that were killed. I have yet to read any truth that would damage the memory of the victims.	2001-10-01
1823175:US	53047425	R26LTXL6KGP5T8	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another New Perspective	Author Jim Crace has often taken familiar subjects and subjected them to his own unique manner of thought. Death is one of the certainties that is a universal fate we all share. When it may arrive, and the specific means may differ, however as a subject it is germane to all of us. \\"Being Dead\\", explores a method of death, detailed forensic decay of bodies, and the visual metaphor he portrays as the two victims are drawn back to the earth.<br />The story is not gratuitously graphic. There was only one section I found rather intense, and it was due to the explicit description of the decay of human remains. It was not grisly, as you would find in a horror novel where death and violence are contrived and often obscene in their graphic portrayal of violence. This book contains violent death, however the murder is a means to explore his primary topic of death. Mr. Crace also brings another death that is not so much a parallel to the primary subjects, rather is more of a haunting and an exploration of misplaced guilt and uncertainty.<br />I believe the interpretations of this work could be almost endless. The author places the dead near the site of both another human death decades earlier, and very near the spot that life for this couple began. The wilderness where they began their life is also being systematically destroyed from natural beauty, to track mansions for the wealthy. Transformed for affluent homeowners who will know nothing of events that might taint their unjustified impression of an idyllic beachfront home. Just as the property lines and access roads are laid with accuracy and regimentation, so too must the illusion of what these singing sand dunes offer must also be managed. This is a place that death is not welcome, intentional, accidental, or any other version.<br />There are many other themes the author weaves amongst the primary story that is always present and suitably graphic. I believe most readers will take away differing views, and others may even move on to what they imagine comes after death. For death here is not continued to whatever comes next. There is no comforting version of what the next existence may be, whether there is one, or whether one is lacking. As he has done in many of his novels, he respects the inquisitiveness of his readers, and sets them on a road of his making, that is for readers to continue upon, or veer one way or another as continuing thought may lead them.move on to what they imagine comes after death. For death here is not continued to whatever comes next. There is no comforting version of what the next existence may be, whether there is one, or whether one is lacking. As he has done in many of his novels, he respects the inquisitiveness of his readers, and sets them on a road of his making, that is for readers to continue upon, or veer one way or another as continuing thought may lead them.	2001-10-01
1828171:US	53047425	R1UNSYPWH9XEI3	0817309306	997452637	A Thousand Kisses: A Grandmother's Holocaust Letters (Judaic Studies Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mamina	\\"A Thousand Kisses\\", is a tribute to both a woman and millions like her who were the victims of the Nazis of World War II. I have read dozens of books about the inhuman events of this period in history, and they have primarily been by historians or reporters who have recorded what took place. There have also been books that have been the stories as told by a survivor, and now there is this work. Ms. Renata Polt has translated and collected the letters of her Grandmother, (Mamina), into a collection that becomes not only a diary of personal events, but also for the actions that continually stripped away virtually everything that makes a day worth rising for. Even the act of persevering day after day while everything and everyone you care for is taken from you, is eventually taken from these victims. These letters tell such a story, and they do so eloquently and with dignity.<br />The letters cover the years and partial years of 1939 to 1942. The correspondence begins when family are separated, and comes to a close when one side cannot correspond with itself. In addition to the letters are very helpful footnotes that not only explain the hidden meaning of some words, but the events that were taking place as they were written. This period when humanity sought its furthest depths is never easy to read about. This particular format is much more personal and involving.<br />The dignity that Mamina maintains from beginning, through countless disappoints, frauds, and changes they would drive many insane, is little short of remarkable. There is no question that as the persecution she suffers as the years pass, and the fate she knows awaits her closes in, her fear can be read within her words. This was clearly an educated, articulate woman, who in spite of the horror she faced, and the pain of the separation from her children and grandchildren never sought to burden them. She never wrote in a manner to frighten those who read her letters, and when she decided to emigrate, she never quit despite a system that was designed not to allow her to travel, but to methodically steal everything from her.<br />Her things may have been taken, and her home may have been lost. It is also true that she was separated from her family and learned of the great progress of her children and grandchildren first in Cuba then America. As their lives became progressively improved and safer, her existence was diminished. Nevertheless you are left with the feeling that when events became their darkest, this woman never succumbed, she never gave in, and she never gave the monsters the satisfaction. A remarkable woman.never quit despite a system that was designed not to allow her to travel, but to methodically steal everything from her.<br />Her things may have been taken, and her home may have been lost. It is also true that she was separated from her family and learned of the great progress of her children and grandchildren first in Cuba then America. As their lives became progressively improved and safer, her existence was diminished. Nevertheless you are left with the feeling that when events became their darkest, this woman never succumbed, she never gave in, and she never gave the monsters the satisfaction. A remarkable woman.	2001-09-26
1828600:US	53047425	R1WXJBP8SGA0JM	0151004897	580854397	Scar Vegas: And Other Stories	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Predictable	Author Tom Paine delivers 10 short stories in his collection, \\"Scar Vegas\\". While the premise of many of the stories appear clever and promising, they too often end with the familiar and clich&eacute;. Mr. Paine clearly is a talented writer, and this first experience with his work would not stop me from reading what may follow.<br />The author deals with many serious issues with social and moral implications. The issues themselves are not in general that unique, so he has raised the bar for his task of writing new and insightful commentary. He has chosen, in the case of the opening story, a troubling facet that continues to hamper our species reaching closer to a humanity that is appropriate. Again a familiar theme, which he then compounds with additional familiarity by telling his tale through an episode in recent history, that is just too easy. The ending will be clear very shortly after you begin. Indeed with the first tale, the story may lie revealed after reading the description on the book's jacket.<br />The author also makes editorials of many of the stories. The edge these stories would need to make the reader feel uncomfortable, or perhaps become introspective, is made harder by the tone that approaches preaching. If a statement about war is the goal of a story, unless you happen to adhere to this author's opinions, it becomes difficult to concentrate on how he demonstrates his skills as a writer, when as a person he intrudes in his fiction. War can be commented upon without ever mentioning a specific nation or a specific conflict. War is unconditionally horrid. It can stand on its own and be criticized and judged, it need not be identified in meticulous detail to make its point. The conduct of war can certainly be more extreme in certain notorious historical examples. I truly think the author is capable of making his point without relying on events from the news, and his personal views that consistently shadow his words.	2001-09-25
1829052:US	53047425	REHBREU4NYA82	0671024248	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Long Time 4.5 Stars	With the number of reviews that have been posted about this particular book by Mr. King, it is reasonable to question why anyone would write another. It has probably been two decades since I last read a book by Mr. King; even the title of the book escapes me. \\"Hearts In Atlantis\\", is the book that began once again my reading of his work, and I owe this to a movie trailer. Sir Anthony Hopkins has joined a distinguished group of actors and actresses that have participated in other films by Mr. King, and this will continue in this coming film. \\"The Shawshank Redemption\\", and, \\"The Green Mile\\", were two other films that I had no idea they were Mr. King's until I saw the credits.<br />The main point I wish to make is for readers who may have once read this man's work and stopped, you should absolutely begin once again. And if you have never read his work he is an author that should be experienced.<br />\\"Hearts In Atlantis\\", is a wonderful and disturbing read. Even while separated into distinct stories that could each stand alone, when combined they create a major work by an exceptional storyteller. Until the events I mentioned, all of my reading quite some time ago placed this writer's work in the category of horror. The two films I mention, and this book again are about terrible acts that can be committed by people, however they are as far from a horror genre novel as can be. This is a book that deals with the damage that continues well after The Vietnam War is complete. This may sound like a topic that has been written about ad nauseum. The same could be said about a man wrongfully imprisoned, however, \\"The Shawshank Redemption\\", is as original as any other writing or film on the topic. I believe it can stand with any other book/film of the genre. The same is true of this work.<br />Mr. King is a prodigious creator of books, and I cannot begin to say I have read even a large fraction of what he has written. I can say it was an error that I ever stopped, and it will take time to catch up on what I have missed. Mr. King has been noted as one of the finer writers of the 20th Century, I never understood why, happily now I do.e time to catch up on what I have missed. Mr. King has been noted as one of the finer writers of the 20th Century, I never understood why, happily now I do.	2001-09-25
1829458:US	53047425	R17LTN2QM0DFKS	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	48	51	N	N	Unlike His Other Work 3.5 Stars	Mr. Perez Reverte's previous books have always maintained a level of tension throughout the unfolding mystery. He has always brought well-planned and complex tales that revolved around great literature, great art, or even the art of classic sport, as he did with, \\"The Fencing Master\\". He always has piqued the curiosity of the inquisitive reader from the outset of his tale, and while sharing pieces of the outcome as the story progressed; he never pulled the curtain entirely back until the very end. \\"The Nautical Chart\\", is a very good story, however the author takes too long to tell his tale, and while he provides an ending that unfolds to the very end, unlike his other works this one can be seen clearly if not completely well before the close.<br />Throughout the book there is a great amount of detail regarding the operation of 18th century sailing vessels. As the reader progresses with the story there is no way of knowing how critical this information may be. The frustration arises as only those readers with very specialized knowledge of sailing and its terminology will be able to follow the reconstruction of the tales within the tale. I don't see why a few drawings of the craft in question could not have been provided. The detail would have enhanced the read, and kept the pace more brisk as those without the knowledge would not feel left out, and wonder how much they were missing.<br />The main players are hard to like as well, as for the most part they loathe one another. One is particularly annoying as he seems to go through his days confirming his and everyone else's low expectations of him, and he catalogues it all with acronyms. There just was not as much substance and depth to these characters as the author has delivered in the past. Virtually all are driven by the same base motive, and even that is hard to get involved with.<br />I love this author's work, however of the novels he has written to date, this is the one I favor the least. I certainly will once again pick up his next work, and I look forward to the tales that are of the caliber of his first four novels.again pick up his next work, and I look forward to the tales that are of the caliber of his first four novels.	2001-09-25
1836617:US	53047425	RIO7I2L6MGQPY	0375504729	940951301	The House of Sight and Shadow: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	I Look Forward To The Third	The reason I look forward to the third work by this author is that I enjoyed his first work, however, \\"The House Of Sight And Shadow\\", does not match his previous novel, \\"The Requiem Shark\\". I even have a hard time reconciling the description on the book's jacket to what the novel contained. Eighteenth Century Medicine was certainly not sophisticated by later standards; many of the practices appear now to be either foolish or dangerous. The practices described in this book cross over to gratuitously grotesque as practiced by men who approach Frankenstein like goals. Creating life is certainly not their goal, endangering it with freakish procedures is their practice. This is all fine if a novel is meant to be that of horror, but I don't think that was the goal here.<br />We are presented with a Doctor who seeks to cure that which he has inflicted. The motivation for his initial damage, and the individual it was inflicted upon was never satisfactorily explained. The reader can guess why he attempts a cure in the manor he does; however a guess is all it would be. What he seeks to accomplish and what he shares with his apprentice in methodology is grotesque, but not interesting.<br />The author also chose to bring Daniel Defoe into the story. I don't know why he did as a fictionalized character would have served the novel just as well. It really became an effort to complete this book after a procedure takes place upon the victim/patient. The suspension of disbelief for me was impossible so that the balance of the read was labored.<br />The close the book is brought to is muddled as well. The attempt at a tragic love story wound around redemption and circled yet again with condemnation was far too much for a novel of this length. It takes time to set the stage for such a complex emotional ending and the ground was not prepared in this case. As the various players meet their fate or continue with their lives it's a bit hard to care.<br />I really was looking forward to this book, as the author's first was such a fine read. Not every effort will be as good as the rest, so I still look forward to what Mr. Griffin offers readers the next time round.is book, as the author's first was such a fine read. Not every effort will be as good as the rest, so I still look forward to what Mr. Griffin offers readers the next time round.	2001-09-18
1836957:US	53047425	R1NBVRJLDGFF8	068912158X	810206933	Arcadia	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Things ChangeOr Do They	Jim Crace is one of the most original authors I have had the pleasure of reading. I've now read four of his works having completed, \\"Arcadia\\", the third novel the author published. An easy error to make would be to state that Jim Crace does not write about topics that have never been tested before. My response would be that not many authors do. What sets the innovators apart from the imitators is their ability to bring you to a theme you believe you have experienced only to have it adjusted so the view you are given is unique in its presentation.<br />Much of what I have read in his first three works deals with change. Who causes or inflicts it, and those that are generally not in a position to amend it. This is not always because the change is some manner of preconceived evil. Often those that are affected simply surrender; they either lack the will or the resources to adapt. He often takes a group, as he has done here, that share very common beginnings, however some move beyond their peers with results that are decidedly mixed.<br />Prior to starting his novels a quote often foretells of what is to come. The idea expressed is more important than the literal interpretation, and in the case of, \\"Arcadia\\" it begins, \\"The tallest buildings throw the longest shadows (thus Great Men make their Mark by blocking out the sun, and, seeking Warmth themselves, cast Cold upon the rest)\\". The quote is from Emile dell'Ova, and the work, \\"Truisms\\" dated 1774. Tall is a relative term, and I would imagine the author of, \\"Truisms\\", never-imagined how tall buildings would be.<br />Victor began his life at the lowest rung that was on offer. By the age of 80 he has added rungs as he has needed them, co-opted his adversaries, and lives a life that is both solitary and predicated on getting even. In this he is as successful as Sisyphus, or perhaps not. His Fixer is a man named Rook. This man takes the shortest route between two points to reach his goals, not unlike the chess piece that is confined to moving in only a straight line.<br />Arcadia as produced by Victor is supposed to improve the lives and businesses of the same class of merchants to which he once belonged. As Victor explains nothing is changing other than the counters are getting higher. First you sat on mats to sell your fruit, and then it was raised onto a cart, and now will be cradled in climate-controlled comfort.<br />All this sounds familiar, not unlike the massive mall that kills the downtown merchant. Jim Crace takes the elements of progress and the darker sides of business together with those who practice them on an entirely new ride. When you gain the end of the tale virtually all the main characters can either be vilified or celebrated. Black becomes white, adversary becomes friend.<br />Mr. Crace is not an imitator, his work also required a bit of getting used to. Once you are in step with the cadence of his thoughts you will find he is a thought-provoking author of the highest merit.s confined to moving in only a straight line.<br />Arcadia as produced by Victor is supposed to improve the lives and businesses of the same class of merchants to which he once belonged. As Victor explains nothing is changing other than the counters are getting higher. First you sat on mats to sell your fruit, and then it was raised onto a cart, and now will be cradled in climate-controlled comfort.<br />All this sounds familiar, not unlike the massive mall that kills the downtown merchant. Jim Crace takes the elements of progress and the darker sides of business together with those who practice them on an entirely new ride. When you gain the end of the tale virtually all the main characters can either be vilified or celebrated. Black becomes white, adversary becomes friend.<br />Mr. Crace is not an imitator, his work also required a bit of getting used to. Once you are in step with the cadence of his thoughts you will find he is a thought-provoking author of the highest merit.	2001-09-18
1838405:US	53047425	RCCXUW7VT3VIK	0880014504	581673917	Gift Of Stones	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Change	\\"The Gift Of Stones\\", is the second novel written by Jim Crace. He tells this story through a storyteller he created from the notes of Sir Henry Penn Butler in, \\"Memoirs of an Excavationist circa 1927\\". Evidently while pursuing old stone implements they came upon the bones from a lower arm of a child. Mr. Crace has done as they did the evening of their find when they sat around their fire and spun tales of why the bones were there, and where the balance of the bones were to be found. Mr. Crace took the same bit of information and created a remarkable work that is about change. The change is this book is not unlike the changes faced today. A fundamental shift in knowledge can have dramatic and even catastrophic effects on a people. And this is the tale of, The Gift Of Stones\\".<br />At some point most have read about the implements of The Stone Age, and also the dramatic changes that were brought about by the advent of bronze. Many have perhaps learned of this change through textbooks and classes in history. Jim Crace has told the same story of change as it might have been seen through the eyes of those who were dependent upon stone for their way of life. From the mention of the bones from a child's lower arm, he recreates history as he creates a wonderful novel.<br />The community of stoneworkers is recreated with marvelous detail about the methods used in creating stone implements. The descriptions go far beyond the crude instruments hacked from the blows of another stone. The author illustrates the artisans these people were with a stoneworker nicknamed, \\"the Leaf\\". Here was an artisan who would keep on his workbench a leaf as produced by nature, and use it both as inspiration and an item of beauty he would seek to emulate in his work. The craftsmen in this book are treated more like skilled sculptors/artists, than the makers of crude tools.<br />The author creates a circle with the flight of an arrow creating the basis for his story, and yet another arrow that brings everything to an end. The second arrow is of course fashioned from bronze, and it is an arrow that can kill much more than an animal or a man. It brings complete destruction to a way of life, to what is also referred to as an age. As he has done before Jim Crace is able to take a subject that is not unfamiliar, and recast the ideas to create a read that is new and unique.ngs everything to an end. The second arrow is of course fashioned from bronze, and it is an arrow that can kill much more than an animal or a man. It brings complete destruction to a way of life, to what is also referred to as an age. As he has done before Jim Crace is able to take a subject that is not unfamiliar, and recast the ideas to create a read that is new and unique.	2001-09-16
1839795:US	53047425	RDKUCJU3EXDM2	0880014989	735593843	Continent	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Quincunx Of Sevens	Prior to the first of the stories in this book there is a quote. It is from The Histories Of Pycletius, and it makes a statement upon 4 topics that are each comprised of 7 parts. Author Jim Crace adds his collection of stories, which are 7 in number, to bring the confines of a pentagon of like numbers to a close. While this is only the second time I have had the pleasure of reading this man's work, I can safely say that every word of his writing is carefully chosen. Whether this book grew from the quote, or was merely a pleasant coincidence, only the Author knows. I doubt it was chance. I think it is another demonstration of the unique writing this man shares with readers.<br />An imagined 7th continent is revealed in 7 stories. This imagined land might not be named or located for us, however it certainly is amongst those we do know, and regularly interacts with its neighbors. Pycletius states that his 7th landmass has business, and it is that of both trade and superstition. The Continent of Mr. Crace shares the attributes that Pycletius lists, and the darker sides of man. It was almost as though he was going to tell tales of the 7 deadly sins. While some of the stories do fit those themes, to say that others do would be a stretch. If you were to add some of the fables of Aesop, then you would have the stories covered.<br />These stories do contain some themes that are familiar. What makes them special is Jim Crace's unique way of presenting his variations. A person who jogs for exercise would seem to be completely benign, however Jim Crace demonstrates how this seemingly harmless activity can damage a small town. The concept of tradition is examined, and success when it means money can become insidious, and destructive.<br />Jim Crace is an author whose work I initially found difficult to engage with. I started with his work, \\"Quarantine\\", and now starting here with, \\"Continent\\", I hope to read the balance of his work is the sequence he wrote it. The man's work is fascinating, and is well worth any initial hurdles you may experience.fascinating, and is well worth any initial hurdles you may experience.	2001-09-14
1841758:US	53047425	R1Q3K2Q26J57SS	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Blink Is Too Long	What does a child experience, what manner of horror has he or she seen, that the thought of the moment to blink an eye is terrifying? The moment it takes for the eye to close and once again open is infinitesimally brief, what harm could come to a child in that time? During, \\"The Absence Of Nectar\\", a child becomes this frightened, as you read this story you will have strong feelings as well.<br />Only a deviant would enjoy what takes place in this book. Unfortunately it is a story that in a variety of forms happens on an all too regular basis. The frequency of these events should not anesthetize our response to them, and stories like this will ensure we do not. It is hard to say that this sort of book is pleasant or satisfying to read. However books like these, be they fiction, or from the front-page news, need to be written and need to be read.<br />As can be gleaned from the outline of the book, this is not a tale that is unfamiliar. Events like this are hard to measure, however recently a crime far worse has taken place in the same state portrayed in this book. The crimes are impossible to understand. The blindness that sometimes accompanies these sadists in the form of a spouse is even more difficult to accept. Ms. Kathy Hepinstall takes the reader through a domestic horror, and extreme emotion is all you can feel, all a, \\"normal\\", person can feel.<br />The storyline of the mother and her new husband is nicely if eerily paralleled by a relationship the son pursues. His choice begins as a bizarre selection at best, and evolves throughout the book becoming a primary thread crucial to the book's ending. The daughter who also is a narrator of the tale at times is precocious to a degree that stretches credulity. This may be due to the line that should divide recollection from description is not defined as clearly as it might be.<br />There are some nice metaphors that the Author draws from the activities of bees, their hive, and even their social order. This may sound a bit odd, however when she writes that the presence of the Queen is not enough for a healthy hive, the comparison is clear, the writing clever.<br />If there is such a thing the primary ending was not a shock. If it was intended to be redemptive I believe it fails. For no matter how much an action may appeal to base emotion, the replication of behavior that was abhorrent remains so, it cannot rise to the level of justice. It remains too little too late, and while circumstances mitigate, they do not erase the action. The closing of the children's tale was a bit too neat for my taste, however it was a safe one, and while not thrilling, is not a great disappointment.<br />I did not read this Author's first book, and I would hesitate to read a third if it contains similar ideas. The writer clearly has a talented hand guiding her written thoughts. If she chooses to continue the refrain that the male of the species seems almost beyond redemption, she may maintain an audience, but not one as large as her skill deserves. Not all women are victims, and not all men are hideously flawed. People like most everything occupy shades of gray.d a bit odd, however when she writes that the presence of the Queen is not enough for a healthy hive, the comparison is clear, the writing clever.<br />If there is such a thing the primary ending was not a shock. If it was intended to be redemptive I believe it fails. For no matter how much an action may appeal to base emotion, the replication of behavior that was abhorrent remains so, it cannot rise to the level of justice. It remains too little too late, and while circumstances mitigate, they do not erase the action. The closing of the children's tale was a bit too neat for my taste, however it was a safe one, and while not thrilling, is not a great disappointment.<br />I did not read this Author's first book, and I would hesitate to read a third if it contains similar ideas. The writer clearly has a talented hand guiding her written thoughts. If she chooses to continue the refrain that the male of the species seems almost beyond redemption, she may maintain an audience, but not one as large as her skill deserves. Not all women are victims, and not all men are hideously flawed. People like most everything occupy shades of gray.	2001-09-12
1843329:US	53047425	RN30JPZYUCHCF	1559704942	831821389	The Crime of Olga Arbyelina	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Nothing	There is absolutely nothing to recommend in this book to other readers. The only reason I finished the work was that I had no other reading alternative one evening, and I will not comment on a book I have not finished.<br />A Russian Princess refugee circa the 1940's is the center of this poorly conceived yarn. As a theme Russian Princesses both real and imagined, has been used as repetitiously as any other that readily comes to mind. Readers have been offered not only novels, but have also been presented with a variety of works that promoted pretenders to the Romanov Family. So what is an Author to do when faced with an overly worn theme? Make the son a hemophiliac so that anyone that knows a bit of History would think this was yet another fictional tale of the lost Romanovs.<br />Now that a familiar theme is established, a well-worn format follows. The tale opens with the end, and then we are subjected to a book filled with repetitive prose until we are rewarded with a vacuous ending. Prior to the story being mercifully brought to a conclusion, the reader is faced with page after page, and chapter after chapter of descriptions of various levels of incest that are so alike, you may wonder if you have read the same passage more than once.<br />I understand that the book was translated from French into English. This cannot mitigate any of this books deficiencies. French is not a long lost language. Had the original been an ancient language, which was subject to widely differing interpretations, this could have been a difficulty. However this is not the case.<br />The weakest part of this collection of words is the Author's attempt to rationalize the incestuous relationship. Once the Author chose such a volatile topic, that many consider well beyond the prurient, he set himself a great task. Since I do not believe his goal was to create just another controversial take on incest, the other alternative was to persuade the reader with circumstances that could mitigate the issue.<br />The Author did not succeed in telling an interesting story, nor was he able to cleverly rethink a human relationship that most would condemn.<br />This is not worth reading.e issue.<br />The Author did not succeed in telling an interesting story, nor was he able to cleverly rethink a human relationship that most would condemn.<br />This is not worth reading.	2001-09-10
1844214:US	53047425	R4U6TLOOH5JEI	031226593X	603778953	The Forger: A Novel	Books	3	13	13	N	N	The Elements Are There But	3.5 Stars<br />Author Paul Watkins clearly is a writer of talent. His work, The Forger, has all of the elements for a suspenseful, engaging read of art fraud, albeit for a noble cause, set just before and during the occupation of Paris. The story he shares should be a book read with great zest, and anticipation as horrible risks are run in the face of arguably the most organized and voracious art thieves in history.<br />The Author is meticulous with detail, and setting. He also creates characters with depth, complex pasts, and unexpected conduct. The descriptions of the craft of forging an internationally known piece of art are more detailed than I have ever read in any novel. Often the great forgery ends with the final brush stroke imitated on canvas of an age to convince, surrounded by a time worn, worm eaten frame. Not so with this story. A forger requires much more than great skill and the ability to mimic. He must be able to tangibly create the passage of time. This must be done for every one of the senses, not just that of the eyes. The means by which this is done is truly fascinating.<br />The Authors style is relaxed, his book is not rushed, and it has the cadence of a deliberate, planned passage. And this is where I felt the book was mismatched. The story is one of deception, whether of art or people. The action takes place in the midst of a World War. If there is a time when pace is to favor the swift with unanticipated changes and improvisations, war certainly provides the setting. I never felt that caught up in the pressure the book unfolded its tale with. Paris may have been an open city, however the risks taken by the primary characters matched those taken much closer to the front.<br />The Author also used certain historical characters that were almost too much. His story worked with the people he created, I dont feel it needed the addition of notorious celebrity. And as I have mentioned previously, the explanation of the forging process was extremely detailed, with almost a checklist like precision. When a forgery is presented and the list is repeated almost verbatim it seemed unnecessary. It seemed the proof should be in the outcome, was the work accepted as genuine or not?<br />There were also a few too many revelations, and an event or two that the story did not need. They came across as a bit clich&eacute;, and the writer did not need to use them. The book is a good read, and my impression may place me in the minority.was extremely detailed, with almost a checklist like precision. When a forgery is presented and the list is repeated almost verbatim it seemed unnecessary. It seemed the proof should be in the outcome, was the work accepted as genuine or not?<br />There were also a few too many revelations, and an event or two that the story did not need. They came across as a bit clich, and the writer did not need to use them. The book is a good read, and my impression may place me in the minority.	2001-09-10
1844866:US	53047425	R22Z2JQGTGLAKD	0380815931	307888158	In the Beginning...was the Command Line	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Good For Some He Chose Books	\\"In The Beginning Was The Command Line\\", Neal Stephenson saw this and decided it was good. Fortunately for many who have made their fortunes in the various valleys of silicon, he decided to become an author and not an innovator in computers. I am not a programmer, and what I know about hardware would fill maybe one 3x5 card. I loved this book for one of the same reasons I so enjoy this man's fiction. He can take what he understands and communicate what he knows to those who have small amounts of computer knowledge. If for you software is something that comes out of a box, or if you run your own Linux system, the book is worthwhile. It is also entertaining and evenhanded.<br />In this, \\"essay\\", you will be given a concise history of debates that continue to rage. The difference here is Neal Stephenson rarely takes sides, or withholds harsh judgment. He was an Apple enthusiast until a machine ate a massive file, and he runs NT, and programs Linux as well. These thoughts were recorded in January of 1999, so like any comment on these topics, if he were to release this today, I'm sure there would be changes.<br />There are some constants that continue to hold to this day. If the Justice Department had used people like the Author, resolutions would have been reached years ago. This book does a great job of dissipating the fog that self interested parties shroud the truth with. Why Apple came within an ace of failing is the same reason they may yet fail. He explains that for all the complaining about Microsoft, without them there is no question users would be worse off. He breaks people down into believers, and those who want to believe. If everyone had closed himself or herself off as Apple has, we would still have choice, as well as havoc and outrageously expensive machines.<br />This book is not limited to the debate mentioned above. He also explains Operating Systems more clearly that I have ever read, and he discusses BeOS and Linux as well. I thought I understood the very basic ideas of Linux. All I knew was the marketing of it, the Author takes the reader through what operating Linux requires, and while he uses it himself, he also is candid about who can reasonably expect to choose and use it as a system.<br />As always he entertains with his characterizations of issues. There is a chapter on, \\"MGBs, Tanks and Batmobiles\\", \\"Morlocks And Eloi At The Keyboard\\", and \\"Metaphor Shear\\", to mention a few.<br />If you have read his fiction, his ability to forecast the future of technology remains amazing. It is true he is extremely well equipped with a sky-high I.Q. His genius is his ability to extrapolate his position from what he knows, to what he believes will happen. If you have not read his fiction, you are missing a great talent.<br />I hope he updates this work.very basic ideas of Linux. All I knew was the marketing of it, the Author takes the reader through what operating Linux requires, and while he uses it himself, he also is candid about who can reasonably expect to choose and use it as a system.<br />As always he entertains with his characterizations of issues. There is a chapter on, \\"MGBs, Tanks and Batmobiles\\", \\"Morlocks And Eloi At The Keyboard\\", and \\"Metaphor Shear\\", to mention a few.<br />If you have read his fiction, his ability to forecast the future of technology remains amazing. It is true he is extremely well equipped with a sky-high I.Q. His genius is his ability to extrapolate his position from what he knows, to what he believes will happen. If you have not read his fiction, you are missing a great talent.<br />I hope he updates this work.	2001-09-09
1849234:US	53047425	R3KCO81HSAFLLV	0380799022	207122650	A Renaissance in Harlem: Lost Essays of the WPA, by Ralph Ellison, Dorothy West, and Other Voices of a Generation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Why	\\"A Renaissance In Harlem\\", is one of the better history books I have read this year. In fact it is one of the better books that I have read in a long time regardless of genre. There are many reasons a book like this goes unnoticed, however to mention any of them, instantly is to be branded with the various labels created by simpletons. If you enjoy reading History, read this collection of work, it will not disappoint.<br />As part of the New Deal, the Federal Government paid several thousand writers across the nation to write about what they observed. The collection of stories that is included in this volume all center upon Harlem and its so-called Renaissance. These essays are written by some writers that are well known, and by several who cannot be traced to this day. They all share a level of excellence that can result when talented people write about a place they are a part of. This collection is not a romanticized view of Harlem, The Apollo Theater, or any other landmarks you may know. The stories are stripped of all pretense, they each are small documentaries of what life was like for those who lived, worked, exploited, and were exploited by Harlem's unique population. It would be easy to dwell on portions of this book that would raise the anger that remains associated with various groups. This may be part of the reason this book was not embraced. Free Speech is a difficult taskmaster, and this may explain why these stories found their home in the archives of The Library Of Congress until they were finally brought to the light of day.<br />You will read of what, \\"Rent Parties\\", rapidly became once they were fashionable. The life of, \\"Thursday Girls\\", will leave you as numb as the stories of John Steinbeck. And for those who may think that the exploitation by today's televangelists is nauseating, come to know, \\"Father Divine\\", who entered Harlem in a one off custom built Dusenberg.<br />\\"Amateur Night at The Apollo\\", will bring insight into this famed theater that is as important as the polished versions so often written of this landmark. Fatso the Slickster, Big Bess, and Kingfish will entertain and sadden. And the story, \\"Finger Waves and Nu Life Pomades\\", will roll as smoothly across the minds eye as it does the ear.<br />My favorite part of the book was the manner these writers recorded the spoken word. They wrote what they heard, and while at times a reader may pause to get in step with some of these street poets, the language is priceless. This speech was a centerpiece of the stories of street vendors and the songs that made their days pass and their goods sell. Men and women who had their street music they would adapt as the blocks they passed changed, and the colors and religions of those who lived there changed as well.<br />This is a wonderfully collection of a piece of American History. No brief comment can do the work of these writers justice, and certainly is not enough to thank those who found, collected and edited the lives into this book.<br />It is a treasure, a gift, and a literary time capsule.hat is as important as the polished versions so often written of this landmark. Fatso the Slickster, Big Bess, and Kingfish will entertain and sadden. And the story, \\"Finger Waves and Nu Life Pomades\\", will roll as smoothly across the minds eye as it does the ear.<br />My favorite part of the book was the manner these writers recorded the spoken word. They wrote what they heard, and while at times a reader may pause to get in step with some of these street poets, the language is priceless. This speech was a centerpiece of the stories of street vendors and the songs that made their days pass and their goods sell. Men and women who had their street music they would adapt as the blocks they passed changed, and the colors and religions of those who lived there changed as well.<br />This is a wonderfully collection of a piece of American History. No brief comment can do the work of these writers justice, and certainly is not enough to thank those who found, collected and edited the lives into this book.<br />It is a treasure, a gift, and a literary time capsule.	2001-09-05
1850912:US	53047425	R243DAXKGI9VGS	0312870264	953636681	The Destruction of the Inn (Ulster Cycle)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Translated From The 11th Century Original	And if that seems a bit fresh the story is believed to have been written in the 8th or 9th Century. The number of, \\"Countries\\", that have experienced one or more millennia are fortunate not only to have ancient tales, but also someone who can bring them to modern readers. Randy Lee Eickoff is such a scholar, and he has translated ancient texts from Ireland many times. This is the first work of his I have read, however I certainly intend to search out his previous efforts.<br />\\"Togail Bruidne Da Durga\\", or, \\"The Destruction Of The Inn\\", is a tale of Kings, Queens, their Heirs, deceptions, and battles fought by Knights of mythic stature and powers. It includes the Druidic Priests said to cast spells, not unlike Merlin of Arthurian fame, to effect the outcome of battles. This tale of a King who was warned never to take certain steps, travel a given route, or have contact with various characters is the center of the tale. There is no way to know whether this story was unique when written, or as is more likely, derived from stories told for centuries prior to this version being committed to vellum. And in the reading it really is not an issue, the experience of being able to hear a tale that was related over one millennia ago, a tale that is said to have appeared centuries before Gutenberg's Press, that is what makes this a wonderful read.<br />Apart from the story the Author explains how these old tales took the form they did. How even in their written form, they maintained a structure that would help the stories to be passed verbally with as little change as possible. He is candid about the difficulties in translation, and leaves footnoted blanks rather than attempt to divine a word. The notes are extensive, and it is here among a great deal of material that he offers possible words that may reasonably have filled these spaces. The omissions are very few, I do not want to leave the impression that this is a fragmented read it is quite the opposite.<br />There were aspects of the tale that sadly exist to this day. I believe them to be a comment on human nature as a whole, and not restricted to those people and nations represented in this book. The fact that the battle involved Irish fighting Irish and that of the British fighting Irish brings the reader up short. It is not only sad, it is a reminder of how old grievances can be, and how they seem to be among the few human actions that are truly perpetual. It is not an issue of repeating the past, rather the question of how long it will persist.<br />An unqualified recommended read.ects of the tale that sadly exist to this day. I believe them to be a comment on human nature as a whole, and not restricted to those people and nations represented in this book. The fact that the battle involved Irish fighting Irish and that of the British fighting Irish brings the reader up short. It is not only sad, it is a reminder of how old grievances can be, and how they seem to be among the few human actions that are truly perpetual. It is not an issue of repeating the past, rather the question of how long it will persist.<br />An unqualified recommended read.	2001-09-04
1852239:US	53047425	R1NF5QJ2A7GDFQ	0312253419	88732746	America: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	More Ambitious	I have not read all of this writer's work, however I did begin with his first, \\"Flight Of The Intruder\\", and have read the majority that have followed. There is no debate that Mr. Coonts has become better at his craft. This book has been atop the NYT Bestseller List for several weeks, not a place that pretenders achieve or remain at. In, \\"America\\", the Author has produced a more complex book with greater success than I have read previously. I enjoyed the book, however there were some tiresome issues.<br />One of the technologies that are highlighted under the name of Flashlight also happens to be on the cover of a nationally distributed magazine at present. The article was fairly brief, but it did provide more detail about the technology than this book did. The Submarine Warfare aspects of the book were fairly well done, but \\"Red October\\" remains the standard. The sonar technology that was a key part of the subject boat was amazing, and was credibly portrayed. The manner by which the same boat became acquired caused me to have a hard time suspending disbelief. I just do not believe that type of incompetence would surround this vessel at launch.<br />The following complaints are minor, however they do interrupt the flow of reading this tale. A thesaurus would help solve the repetition of words. I lost count of how many times, \\"it's toast\\", was used, but it and other words and short phrases needed to be edited. I also have trouble with names that are so bizarre they stop the reader in mid-sentence. Apollo Ice may be a great name for a professional wrestler, but it does not belong with Dr. in front of it. And when naming a German, using Kraut as the start of the last name is nothing other than weak, at worst it can be offensive, although I don't believe the Author meant to give offense at all. It may be a valid German name, but it reads as horribly contrived in a novel.<br />The scope of the conspiracy was a bit of a stretch as well. Confining it to one of the events would have been workable; however laying all the complexity at one door was too much. In general the book felt as if it were rushed, and that would explain the repetitive language as well as some poor editing.<br />I know this probably reads as if I really disliked the work. I do like the work of Mr. Coonts and he is one of the better practitioners of this genre writing at present. However I do believe it is fair to ask of him to be meticulous if his goal is to write detailed high tech thrillers.<br />3.5 Starsould have been workable; however laying all the complexity at one door was too much. In general the book felt as if it were rushed, and that would explain the repetitive language as well as some poor editing.<br />I know this probably reads as if I really disliked the work. I do like the work of Mr. Coonts and he is one of the better practitioners of this genre writing at present. However I do believe it is fair to ask of him to be meticulous if his goal is to write detailed high tech thrillers.<br />3.5 Stars	2001-09-03
1852735:US	53047425	R2CMIZ29GWP52Z	0374239622	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Depends On You	If it is the Bible that you adhere to, that you believe to be The Only True Word, this book is not for you. If you believe that Jesus was a historical figure and that the Bible may be allegorical and factual, this will provide you with ideas that are novel. If you are in the latter group you could even say that this is a work of historically based fiction. I really enjoyed this work and the writer, who conceived and executed the story, which some would call counter-factual history, and others would simply name blasphemy. I have never read, \\"The Satanic Verses\\", that so enraged the Ayatollah that he placed a death mark on Salmon Rushdie. The Pope to my knowledge does not have hit teams, so Mr. Crace need not hide. By the same token making the choice to vacation in The Bible Belt would be an unwise decision.<br />I am not playing advocate, be it of the Devil type or any other. I simply comment on the book as literature that has received great acclaim.<br />A good portion of the book is annoying. Jesus makes cameo appearances and the reader is left with the daily activities of others who have arrived to fast in their chosen manner for 40 days. When Jesus does arrive he unknowingly performs what traditionally is called a miracle, and I would imagine if he had the chance, this is one he would have regretted. This action that he takes assures us of the dominance of everyone's story with that of Jesus left in the background. As the book develops his experiences become more important, and by the end he commands the complete attention of the reader.<br />For those persons of Faith, this book is easy to condemn before it even begins. The Author uses a quote that is dated 1993 that would seem to state his conclusion of this Biblical Story, and if a reader stops there I believe a mistake has been made. The writer will give many more reasons to toss this book aside, for not only is the expected primary character on the edges of this story, the balance is filled largely with Musa, a human that embodies most of the vile human traits a person can list, and a few unique to him. His is one of the more perfect renderings of a person whose presence has no redeeming value at all.<br />Mr. Crace's Jesus is portrayed with human characteristics that are not what is traditionally written, and again this will bother many people. This man who will become for many The Messiah, is a man of great pride, he wishes to prove others wrong so that they will be forced to view him as right. And these matters are not of a religious nature. He is also portrayed as indecisive, as well as a man who's initial acts include tasks that are meant to summarily exclude any who do not share his views.<br />The ending of the book is brilliant. For even though the writer has rewritten an integral tale of Christianity, he does not place anything in the path of Christianity to develop as many believe it to be today. A strong argument could be made that were this the tale that was contained in scripture, Jesus would be a more understandable figure. His confidence in who he was, and what he was meant to do would be more easily supported if this description of his 40 days in the wastelands was the accepted documentation.<br />If Biblical Miracles are something the reader rejects on principle, reading this story could be argued to be pointless. I disagree that the story should be avoided by anyone. It is a thought-provoking tale even if you are not a person of Faith. Christianity has been present for millennia, and its adherents number in the hundreds of millions. So all you need to be to enjoy this work is a reader with an inquisitive mind that would enjoy contemplating the effects of this, \\"what if\\", scenario., a human that embodies most of the vile human traits a person can list, and a few unique to him. His is one of the more perfect renderings of a person whose presence has no redeeming value at all.<br />Mr. Crace's Jesus is portrayed with human characteristics that are not what is traditionally written, and again this will bother many people. This man who will become for many The Messiah, is a man of great pride, he wishes to prove others wrong so that they will be forced to view him as right. And these matters are not of a religious nature. He is also portrayed as indecisive, as well as a man who's initial acts include tasks that are meant to summarily exclude any who do not share his views.<br />The ending of the book is brilliant. For even though the writer has rewritten an integral tale of Christianity, he does not place anything in the path of Christianity to develop as many believe it to be today. A strong argument could be made that were this the tale that was contained in scripture, Jesus would be a more understandable figure. His confidence in who he was, and what he was meant to do would be more easily supported if this description of his 40 days in the wastelands was the accepted documentation.<br />If Biblical Miracles are something the reader rejects on principle, reading this story could be argued to be pointless. I disagree that the story should be avoided by anyone. It is a thought-provoking tale even if you are not a person of Faith. Christianity has been present for millennia, and its adherents number in the hundreds of millions. So all you need to be to enjoy this work is a reader with an inquisitive mind that would enjoy contemplating the effects of this, \\"what if\\", scenario.	2001-09-03
1853402:US	53047425	R2PVVF4DGMO8B4	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enigmatic	I don't believe a reader can fully appreciate what this writer is offering with, \\"The Grand Complication\\", unless, \\"A Case Of Curiosities\\", has been read first. I enjoyed the book as the writer is talented, and pays a great deal of attention to detail, both to his writing and the manner in which he physically presents his novel. This novel does not open with the blank pages most books do that lead a reader to wonder why they are there. He not only uses the space to enhance the aesthetics of his book, he makes it a part of his novel as well. The same can be said of the cover. More and more book covers seem to be the final resting place of bad clip art or just bad taste. Here again the Author uses every opportunity to add to his tale. What is on the cover is there for a reason; you have only to open the book to see why.<br />I have not read the book that preceded this and I felt as though I missed out on much of the fun as the story progressed. I do not know if the Author has closed the loop with these two works, however if he has, and if you read only this fine work, as I did, the loop is incomplete. The book is not a sequel in a traditional manner. There are issues of continuity that I believe to be very clever, I will not be certain until I read the earlier book.<br />Abraham-Louis Breguet made the watch that is the center of attention in this novel. This is a company that is celebrating its 225th Anniversary with a limited edition watch that requires as much money to posses it, as a rather substantial house. These timepieces are so intricate that elements of them can be produced to this day by only a very few companies that have the talent and the technology.<br />Mr. Kurzweil joins an illustrious group of Authors who have used the watches of Breguet in their books, Honore de Balzac, Alexandre Dumas, Stendahl, Jules Verne, and Alexander Sergeievich Pushkin to name a few. Marie Antoinette, Napoleon, Popes, and Sir Winston Churchill, as well as Kings Queens, and other noted Historical Figures have worn them. If I found the story lacking at all it was the Author's choice of what is arguably the finest watchmaker in history, and the too little attention he paid to the man and his creations.<br />This is a novel and the writer seems too meticulous to make such a large historical error as appeared in this book. My guess is that it would make sense taken together with the first novel, but at present I can only guess.<br />Read alone this is a well-crafted and enjoyable tale. I would hazard that read in sequence it would be even more of a pleasure.er noted Historical Figures have worn them. If I found the story lacking at all it was the Author's choice of what is arguably the finest watchmaker in history, and the too little attention he paid to the man and his creations.<br />This is a novel and the writer seems too meticulous to make such a large historical error as appeared in this book. My guess is that it would make sense taken together with the first novel, but at present I can only guess.<br />Read alone this is a well-crafted and enjoyable tale. I would hazard that read in sequence it would be even more of a pleasure.	2001-09-02
1853686:US	53047425	R3VARUVHF596TW	0370106032	843428788	Angels at the Ritz and Other Stories	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Everyone Switch	\\"Angels At The Ritz\\" is the third collection of short stories by William Trevor that I have read. Much like the previous volumes, many of the stories share similar feelings if not the same theme, and are all generally very good.<br />The dozen stories here range from locales within Isfahan in Iran/Persia, to an office and the relationships that can develop, which could take place virtually anywhere. Relationships in all their disordered states are what struck me about this collection. If this were a puzzle, the reader could place the pieces together from various tales and create successful relations as opposed to the ones we are presented with. There are examples of couples that never started, those that never should have started, those that are growing old and contemplate events to make them interesting once again, and finally those of regret for what might have been, and others for what could have been but for an action taken or omitted.<br />Delusion of one's self or the view that another is believed to hold also is a frequent participant. The result is primarily about people that either are unhappy, should be happy, or could be, but for decisions that at times are quite minor. There is only one story that actually contemplates the swapping of spouses, however it never gets beyond G-Rated action, and perhaps PG-13 thoughts.<br />So if human studies interest you, William Trevor has once again supplied a variety of situations. You can experience these people within stories like, \\"Angels At The Ritz\\", \\"Mrs. Silly\\", \\"The Tennis Court\\", and \\"Last Wishes\\". Mr. Trevor is a meticulous observer and recorder of human nature, and his stories are generally very worthwhile.	2001-09-02
1858636:US	53047425	R3APSB06F510R6	067091021X	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent	Pure, documented History can make excellent reading. However at times<br />with a format that requires reading footnotes constantly as you read<br />the text, the subject matter can become less compelling than it<br />otherwise would be. While I am in no way advocating that scholarly<br />History should be avoided, there are instances when Historical Fiction<br />is so good it can act as a catalyst for more scholarly reading. This<br />book is a prime example, for though the Author has created names and<br />added to the Historical Record, she in no way strayed from what<br />reasonably could have happened.<br /><br /> The Bubonic Plague is a horrific<br />affliction. I have read books on the subject that were fiction and<br />non-fiction, and while all are unsettling, this book gives the reader<br />no quarter. I don't generally wince when reading descriptions of<br />disease, however even with the first case that Author Geraldine Brooks<br />described, the book made it clear it is not for those of delicate<br />stomachs. At the same time this is one of the aspects of the Novel I<br />liked the best. The Author related all the horror, suffering, and<br />terror this disease represents, without being gratuitous or using<br />shock value in lieu of good writing.<br /><br /> Ms. Brooks did a great job of<br />using period dialogue, sentence structure, and words appropriate to<br />17th Century England. The vocabulary was the only point of frustration<br />for me. I do not mind looking up definitions, however some words were<br />not to be found, and trying to draw a definition from the context of<br />the placement of a word was not always possible for me. I don't<br />believe this caused me to be denied critical events; it was just a<br />small annoyance.<br /> There are several very good writers that are writing<br />in this genre. This may be this lady's first entry, however it is<br />an auspicious debut that puts her writing with the best of her<br />peers.<br /> Unconditionally recommended.	2001-08-29
1861570:US	53047425	R2VB16TYGZVS0E	0871138042	255087586	Barrow's Boys	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From Biblio To Bio	The Author explains that this book originated as the name of John<br />Barrow is to be found in the Bibliographies on English Expeditions of<br />Discovery, for a good portion of the first half of the 19th<br />Century. Those that lead or were notable participants in these<br />ventures have books written by them, and about them, many times<br />over. Evidently this is the first time the man who was a driving force<br />behind these events has been profiled alongside the voyages. Just some<br />of these events include the search for The Northwest Passage, the trek<br />for The North Pole, documenting the North and South Magnetic Poles,<br />and exploring Antarctica. And when you have frozen through these epic<br />travels, the writer takes you to Australia, and the overland marches<br />in search of Timbuktu, the beginning and end of The Niger River, and<br />many other historical firsts.<br /><br /> Along with the details of the trips and<br />the men that participated, the Author also explains the construction<br />of the ships, how these wooden vessels were able to break through ice<br />instead of their being broken. There are remarkable details noted,<br />such as there was a black member of the group that first crossed the<br />Northwest passage from West to East, and also a man of color when the<br />North Pole was attacked. The tales range from remarkable folly when<br />officers were to wear dress uniforms when crossing the desserts of<br />Africa to maintain the pride of Britain, to other men who adopted not<br />only the dress of The Muslims, but also learned to speak their<br />language!<br /><br /> In his position at The Admiralty and other distinguished<br />posts, Barrow not only could direct what expeditions took place, but<br />also those that were to lead them. With this power he made or<br />destroyed the reputations of many brave men whose only failure was<br />that they did not succeed according to Barrow. Most of his beliefs<br />about The Northwest Passage, The North Pole, and the rivers and cities<br />of Africa were wrong. Despite this, his persistence and those that<br />shouldered these journeys filled in the voids on the worlds map that<br />had until then been blank. But while alive he was a bitter taskmaster<br />who would brutally discredit the same men he had sent to destinations<br />never before seen by a European, if he did not gain the information<br />and confirmation of the beliefs he held to be true.<br /><br /> Different readers<br />will select those actions they find to be the most remarkable, for me<br />it was those trips that in futility sought The Northwest Passage by<br />ship. These ships and crew would at times be gone for 2, 3, or even 4<br />years depending on the whims of the ice. During one such voyage after<br />surviving another brutal winter a vessel again made its way toward<br />home. When once again locked in the ice for yet another winter the<br />ship had traveled a distance that a man could easily walk in 2 hours!<br /><br />These winters, which occupied most of the calendar, were filled with<br />activities to literally keep all members healthy and sane. Seamen who<br />could not read or write came home literate, and the majority of the<br />time scurvy was kept at bay by Captains that truly seemed to care for<br />their men. There were of course Captains whose sanity could be<br />questioned, and at least one who was certifiably a mental<br />misfit. However these were the exception and not the rule. The Author<br />also shares the first human encounter that an isolated group of<br />Eskimos had experienced in 400 years. The story will contradict every<br />evil clich&eacute; that has been too easily attached to those who set out on<br />these voyages.<br /> The book is a remarkable piece of work, and pays<br />tribute and passes judgment when appropriate. A wonderful piece of<br />scholarly work that is a privilege to read.urneys filled in the voids on the worlds map that had until then been blank. But while alive he was a bitter taskmaster who would brutally discredit the same men he had sent to destinations never before seen by a European, if he did not gain the information and confirmation of the beliefs he held to be true.<br />   Different readers will select those actions they find to be the most remarkable, for me it was those trips that in futility sought The Northwest Passage by ship. These ships and crew would at times be gone for 2, 3, or even 4 years depending on the whims of the ice. During one such voyage after surviving another brutal winter a vessel again made its way toward home. When once again locked in the ice for yet another winter the ship had traveled a distance that a man could easily walk in 2 hours! <br />  These winters, which occupied most of the calendar, were filled with activities to literally keep all members healthy and sane. Seamen who could not read or write came home literate, and the majority of the time scurvy was kept at bay by Captains that truly seemed to care for their men. There were of course Captains whose sanity could be questioned, and at least one who was certifiably a mental misfit. However these were the exception and not the rule. The Author also shares the first human encounter that an isolated group of Eskimos had experienced in 400 years. The story will contradict every evil clich that has been too easily attached to those who set out on these voyages.<br /> The book is a remarkable piece of work, and pays tribute and passes judgment when appropriate. A wonderful piece of scholarly work that is a privilege to read.	2001-08-27
1862584:US	53047425	R2Z5NU01P9OI70	0595093272	144194157	Doctor Janeway's Plague	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another Great Example	One of the benefits of reviewing books is that works by Authors I<br />would otherwise never have read have been brought to my attention. Not<br />all the books are memorable, but a surprising number are good, and<br />some are very good. \\"Dr. Janeway's Plague\\", by John Farrell<br />falls into the latter category. This work of mystery, with both<br />science fiction and mythology added, is as good as many works that are<br />sold by the ton. It is a very well written work that has the<br />advantages of being from a new author, which is critical if reading is<br />to be kept interesting, and also a work that appeals to readers who<br />like to think. This writer respects his readers and presents an<br />articulate read for the mind, as well as an unnerving read for the<br />emotions. His writing is fresh. I would rather look forward to a great<br />read that takes time to create and polish, than work from Authors who<br />churn out formulaic books.<br /><br /> This story takes place primarily in<br />Cambridge Massachusetts on the Eastern end of the state, and<br />Charlemont on the Western side. I cannot deny that my being from the<br />state and my familiarity with the locales gave the story unique<br />immediacy. However no matter where you live the book works, and does<br />so brilliantly.<br /><br /> Much of the story centers itself in very old<br />buildings. Happily a library is center stage for all booklovers. If<br />you have ever been deep in the crypt-like areas where books are stored<br />in dark rooms and arranged in claustrophobic labyrinths, you know how<br />easily you can unnerve yourself. John Farrell takes this very common<br />fear and then magnifies it exponentially by providing very good<br />reasons to be terrified. I am fortunate to live near many colleges<br />with great libraries. After I read this book, my first trip<br />underground was one with more than a bit of anxiety. A timer turns on<br />lights; if you get caught up in what you are doing the timer turns<br />off. After this book I'll start carrying a flashlight with me.<br /><br /> A<br />building built upon foundations from earlier construction,<br />architectural sleuths, PHD heroes and villains, and best of all<br />fundamentally good writing. This is as about as far from B-Movie<br />slasher trash and Night Of The Living Dead nonsense as dead stars are<br />from our planet.<br /> The only reason the 5th star is absent is because<br />this is the writer's first book, and I always believe Authors get<br />better as they practice their craft.nstruction, architectural sleuths, PHD heroes and villains, and best of all fundamentally good writing. This is as about as far from B-Movie slasher trash and Night Of The Living Dead nonsense as dead stars are from our planet.<br /> The only reason the 5th star is absent is because this is the writer's first book, and I always believe Authors get better as they practice their craft.	2001-08-26
1865360:US	53047425	R3UDEH93XAMF2I	0156011484	913706808	Some Rain Must Fall: And Other Stories	Books	5	20	20	N	N	One Of A Kind	I found Michel Faber's Novel, \\"Under The Skin\\", to be both disturbing, wildly inventive, and unique. I could think of no one to compare his work to then, and now after reading his first collection of short stories, \\"Some Rain Must Fall\\", I still can gather no comparisons. There are stories that taken alone might lend them to be classified as similar to this person's work, or another's collection of short stories. However taken as a whole the works in this volume encompass so vast a range, from pure imagination, to a short story that reads as a documentary of a profession, no one else comes to mind.<br />There is a story of a teacher, a specialist who commands three times the normal rate for running a classroom. The start of the story is seemingly harmless, and then it progresses steadily to a horrific experience. Another begins and quickly becomes surreal, however the change is so subtle you might read it more than once to be sure it all is not a metaphor as opposed to a severe form of retribution.<br />Other stories focus on a narrower field of a person or two, and how presumptions that are made almost unconsciously can have life altering effects. This latter theme may not sound new, however the setting for his story and those that inhabit it are definitely not what would be called a traditional venue.<br />Mr. Faber is about as far from the traditional as a writer can get, and still be understood. \\"Under The Skin\\", pushed the envelope for me to grasp what he had in mind, but it nevertheless was powerful and unsettling. His workings on the fringes of his imagination seem to naturally produce a story of a most interesting Universe. However with at least one tale he seems to condemn another extreme branch of expression without compromise. I agree with what he had one character write, whether the Author agrees, who knows?<br />Like nothing you have probably read.	2001-08-23
1865530:US	53047425	R1F08I50XCLKJX	0393020371	601624284	Next: The Future Just Happened	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The Book Is A Riot	Michael Lewis has written some great work. I really feel this is one of the most enjoyable to read. The Author has a wicked wit, and this time the people who are players in these events need little help to be outrageously funny. They are generally clueless, often are the parents of those being profiled, however unlike the Chairman of the SEC their ignorance is easier to justify.<br />The Author has done a brilliant job of communicating some fundamental shifts in our lives, and he has made it very readable. There are dozens of books with PHD adorning their covers that may make the same point, but they are also painful to read. Explaining how money has become a commodity sounds pretty dry, however when illustrated by the actions of a 14 year old boy in New Jersey, with parents straight out of a sitcom, the laughter will bring tears to your eyes. You will cry again when you read the clueless attempts by the SEC to explain why what this kid did was wrong using their tortured logic. The bottom line is the kid did little or nothing that is not done on an hourly basis by Wall Street Professionals. The difference is they have a license. And when you get through the story, and see what how the SEC settled, you will be hard pressed to take issue with the conclusion that the Author arrives at.<br />The Internet reminds me of The King James Bible, and the English translations that preceded it. Both were methods of enlightenment for the masses who gained knowledge previously held by very few. And again both lead not only to the spread and access to knowledge, but also the use of that knowledge in manners that were both positive and destructive. The former lead to a schism, the latter is making life difficult for those who are members of professions that no longer are private clubs, which no longer can exist solely because they have informational access that was monopolized. The public is finding out that the Emperor has no clothes, and the result is the kingdoms are shrinking, vanishing, or being forced to radically change.<br />Lawyers, Doctors, and Stockbrokers are obvious targets. Reviewers here at Amazon will enjoy how the Author explains how the effect of anyone being able to post their own thoughts for the eyes of millions has caused some, \\"questionable occupations\\" to become potentially irrelevant.<br />None of these issues the Author discusses are literally simple, however the basic changes that they hold are easily understood. The book is for everyone, for even if you have never logged on, the book explains how all those who have are changing your life.anishing, or being forced to radically change.<br />Lawyers, Doctors, and Stockbrokers are obvious targets. Reviewers here at Amazon will enjoy how the Author explains how the effect of anyone being able to post their own thoughts for the eyes of millions has caused some, \\"questionable occupations\\" to become potentially irrelevant.<br />None of these issues the Author discusses are literally simple, however the basic changes that they hold are easily understood. The book is for everyone, for even if you have never logged on, the book explains how all those who have are changing your life.	2001-08-23
1866348:US	53047425	R2DK7ZG3B7E038	1566491002	913002674	The River Below	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Odd Format Great Book	If you were to read only the contents of Francois Cheng&#8217;s, &#8220;The River Below&#8221;, you could easily believe you had just read a memoir translated from Chinese to French, and finally into English. In truth it is a novel that is bracketed by a Foreword and an ending that suggest the Author has presented the memoir of a Chinese Artist through some of the horrific events of 20th Century China. I cannot remember reading another book in this format, which I presume was used to maintain that the contents of the book were non-fiction when in truth it was a novel. The cover states it is a novel, and then you arrive at the forward and begin to wonder.<br />The novel, like the culture it describes, is full of self-questioning. No event is seen as random, every occurrence has a meaning if only it is looked at correctly. The result is that throughout the book there is constant analysis occurring whether in rhetorical inward investigation, or by the teaching of others that hold to a given religion/philosophy. This process makes for a contemplative novel with a correspondingly slow pace. I generally have difficulty finishing works like this, however there was a familiar theme that made the work interesting to follow.<br />Shakespeare was a master at setting up multiple conflicting relationships that even when based upon love would end in disaster. These relationships often took the form of a triangle that involved deception or events that were misinterpreted to defeat characters either spiritually, physically or both. Mr. Cheng I believe used this format to good effect as he placed the theme in 20th Century China as it moved into the horror that was Mao&#8217;s China, which is about as far away as one could get from where William staged his events.<br />I am not suggesting this is nothing more than imitation. It is not. It is a well-written work that requires a bit of patience and does not succumb to being rushed no matter how quickly you may try to read it. When all this is combined with the unusual format the reading experience is unique and worthwhile even if it rarely, if ever, raises your pulse.this is combined with the unusual format the reading experience is unique and worthwhile even if it rarely, if ever, raises your pulse.	2001-08-23
1870644:US	53047425	ROV840NUS1Y68	0375410627	177766244	Ava's Man	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Reading Doesnt Get Much Better	And if reading does indeed improve there is a high probability that Rick Bragg will write it. His first book, \\"All Over But The Shoutin\\", was a remarkable book and was recognized as such. And when a group of his stories were collected for, \\"Somebody Told Me\\", it contained shorter works that can stand with any that have appeared, whether fiction or non-fiction. I don't understand why this new work, \\"Ava's Man\\" is touted as a continuation of his first book. It is true the work expands on the history of his Family, but it is more of a prequel, exploring his Grandfather, Rick's Mother, and her Sisters. The distinction is important, for if you are expecting part two of Shoutin, which is not what you will get.<br />I want to be clear; I am not criticizing this book. There is no one else writing today that I enjoy reading more. This new work is different, and the reasons are clear, the Author almost states as much in his comments.<br />In his previous work he has written either about his own experiences from a child to the writer he is today, or he was writing his first hand accounts of events as he experienced them. In, \\"Ava's Man\\", he is relating a story of a man he never knew as told, by among others, his Mother and his Aunts. The result of his collecting and relating the stories of others requires he be faithful to what they share. This same requirement left him little space to write prose that is totally unique and his own. There were bits of the book where he would introduce an idea, or summarize a lifestyle or a manner of speaking, and the writing was pure Rick Bragg Poetry. But this was not the rule.<br />For me the following type of sentence is what makes Rick Bragg stand alone, &quot;This is a place where grandmothers hold babies on their laps under the stars and whisper that the lights in the sky are holes in the floor of heaven&quot;. Call it prose, poetry or music; it is amazing use of the language.<br />He said that this book was requested by people who felt he left out his Mother's story. Readers wanted to know where this remarkable woman was from, and who were the Parents that brought her along. Mr. Bragg even states that this is \\"their\\" book, the result of people stopping him in Airports and book signings and telling him he shortchanged his Mama.<br />The previous two books were both works that I wished there were more than 5 stars to express the talent of this man. This book too is excellent, and well beyond what most writers will ever approach. It also is different, not flawed or weak, just different. Individual readers will decide whether this shade of Rick Bragg is one they like better or less.<br />I hope he is working on a dozen new books.he left out his Mother's story. Readers wanted to know where this remarkable woman was from, and who were the Parents that brought her along. Mr. Bragg even states that this is \\"their\\" book, the result of people stopping him in Airports and book signings and telling him he shortchanged his Mama.<br />The previous two books were both works that I wished there were more than 5 stars to express the talent of this man. This book too is excellent, and well beyond what most writers will ever approach. It also is different, not flawed or weak, just different. Individual readers will decide whether this shade of Rick Bragg is one they like better or less.<br />I hope he is working on a dozen new books.	2001-08-20
1870851:US	53047425	R2BR0L7PLY6YF7	0879517239	858015443	Siam: Or the Woman Who Shot a Man (Sewanee Writers' Series)	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Simple	Everything about this book is simple. There are times when prose reads as simple and that's because it is. The story is simple as it virtually is nonexistent. And Claire is simple in that she is the most clueless person in Thailand. The ending of the book also lacks complexity as the ending is there only if you supply your own.<br />Ms. Tuck seems to describe the environs of Claire with detail, however unless one has been there who can know? If paradise is living virtually surrounded by open sewers with the primary form of food being bottled water, by all means head east. Claire latches on to a businessman, why, basically because he is the only one who would engage in more than sentence fragments with her. When he disappears without explanation it rapidly becomes clear to everyone but Claire why in all probability Jim Thompson vanished.<br />So we are treated to Claire obsessing over a pendent that is gone, and a trinket here and there that has gone missing. We are repeatedly tortured with the subtleties of the Native Language, not due to its being more intricate than another, rather Claire is less intricate than most. Her Husband's employer is an acronym that most will ferret out very near the book's beginning, but not our Claire. You get the impression Claire would have trouble spelling ABC, CBS, NBC, and so on.<br />If the fictitious Claire had given a fraction of the time and thought to getting married that she applied to her lost pendent, we all would have been saved from this book.	2001-08-20
1871293:US	53047425	RUPU0W5ZRAA64	067089558X	885194498	A Heart of Stone	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This Just In	\\"A Heart Of Stone\\", is a very fine piece of writing. As a novel it is disturbing, however events in this story so closely parallel a recent event in the USA, that the read is more like a prediction that Nostrodamus correctly foresaw. The crime and its cause are not identical, however they are very close and they read almost as though you are reviewing current newspapers. The effect is unnerving at times.<br />The Author, Renete Dorrestein is from Holland where she is one of the Country's most popular writers. If her work continues to be translated as well as this tale, I foresee her fame growing here as well. What this lady does so well is to get you thinking ahead in anticipation of what horror she eventually reveals. She is wonderful at coaxing the reader along with mundane daily events, and then with a sentence you come close to dropping the book. There was one revelation so demented in its execution I literally put the book aside for several days. As I have said, the book is very intense, however when it reads like today's news, the intensity is raised exponentially.<br />The Author is also adept at wonderful imagery. There is a passage when a tombstone is being viewed and pondered. The stone is in the shape of a heart. When she is finished talking about what this heart of stone will never do, if you don't feel a chill, it is because you are cold blooded.<br />The book is not just meant to frighten, it delves deeply into what is a not uncommon occurrence, and then explores the consequences both short and long term. The book is filled with people that do what most would feel is either abnormal, abhorrent, or against all logic of reasonable human nature/conduct. To suggest this is just a frightening tale, or to lightly dismiss the book as another horror novel, is to miss the point and to do the Author a great injustice.<br />This is a fascinating if disturbing look into the darkest of human conduct. This book will disturb you, as it should.	2001-08-19
1871857:US	53047425	R1XRLOOHBPQF78	089296605X	603396642	Citizen Sidel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	If You Like Jimmy Breslin	Finding a new Author is good, finding an Author that has written several dozen books that extend the new find is fantastic. The first work I read by Mr. Jerome Charyn was, \\"The Black Swan\\". That particular work was the second volume of his memoirs documenting his youth in the Bronx, and it was great reading. \\"Citizen Sidel\\", is a work of fiction that takes place around the Democratic Convention and its aftermath in New York City. The book is irreverent, has razor sharp rapid-fire dialogue, and gives no quarter to any of the topics it harpoons.<br />Any scandal that has taken place in the political arena is tame in comparison to the variety of activities, up to and including Capital Crimes that this Presidential run includes. There is a hitter stalking one of the Burroughs by the name of Tolstoy. A notorious Rumanian octogenarian is living in luxury in Virginia, as a guest on one of the competing US Agencies, and these are only two of several dozen outrageous characters. A 12 year old who is a speech script doctor, a potential First Lady who loathes her Daughter, as the latter is more popular.<br />Add to the individuals a FBI that makes Hoover's version seem like a child's game, and then toss in The CIA, The Secret Service, New York City's Finest, Gangs, and self-proclaimed super-heroes, and you begin to get an idea of this tale. While it is said that all humor contains some truth, this book is a great deal of fun to read. Jerome Charyn is a very talented writer with an insightful savage wit. Enjoy!	2001-08-19
1877261:US	53047425	RVKTE4NER1SII	0312208774	488829333	The Black Swan: A Memoir	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Bronx Archipelago	\\"The Black Swan\\", is the sequel to, \\"The Dark Lady From Belorusse\\". I have not read the first volume, however the sequel stands on its own as a great piece of writing. I certainly intend to go back to the first, but if the latter were the only volume at hand, I would not hesitate to recommend others begin with it as I did. The book is described as a memoir, however there is a note at the end that states that events while based on his experiences as a youth also, \\"are the product of imaginative recreation\\". The balance of the disclaimer either is meant to be amusing, or is an effort to keep the Author out of the Federal Witness Protection Program.<br />The setting is The Bronx a few years after World War II. Amongst the other colorful characters, this is the time of Meyer Lansky who influences more than one event in the book. There are a host of other lesser members of the crime world that deal with anything from gambling, to cornering the market on Celery Tonic.<br />The one venture outside the Bronx is to the Catskill Mountains home not only to the name of the book, The Black Swan, but is also the residence of The Dark Lady who deals cards to her various infamous admirers. Throughout all of this is great humor whether of the darker sort related to King Farouk and The Bataan March, or what is the cigarette of preference at a school for asthmatics in Arizona.<br />After the disclaimer in the rear, I don't know where the line separating fact from imaginative recreation resides. Were all of the book true it would be a remarkable story as well as hilarious, and if fiction, nothing is diminished from a reading perspective. Who knows, maybe the kid did have a probation officer he fell hard for who was Lana Turner's twin. Fact or fantasy, who cares, a great piece of writing.	2001-08-15
1878755:US	53047425	R2WC4B24Y6MBL1	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Great Fun	Mr. Clive Cussler has entertained readers with Dirk Pitt through what is now a collection of eighteen novels. It is a remarkable run by any measure and while some of the novels are better than others, they are all great fun. Mr. Cussler created a main character that not only he clearly would like to be, but an individual that all his male readers would like to claim a piece of for their own. I would imagine most of his readers are male, however he has also included remarkable female characters that while often the target of clich&eacute; male observations, give as good as they get. And he carries on the tradition of the good guys winning, and often has the villains get their comeuppance in a stylish manner at the hands of the hero. Judge, jury, and executioner may not be constitutional, but it is a great deal of fun.<br />Prior to starting, \\"Valhalla Rising\\", it would not hurt to refresh your memory with many of the major themes of past books. It is not imperative, but several references are made and it adds to the enjoyment if the details are fresh in the reader's mind. This should not put off anyone from making this his or her first Dirk Pitt adventure, quite the contrary. While everyone would rank his or her favorites differently, I think this latest work from Mr. Cussler would make anyone's short list. For those aware of the real life exploits of Mr. Cussler and his work of salvaging ships, he brings some of this into his novel, which added a dimension I greatly enjoyed. If you have read Jules Verne it again will add to this book's reading experience.<br />When I first read the jacket I was inwardly groaning when I read the word monsters. I had trouble imagining how that word would play out in the book. However have no fear, while this book like all of Mr. Cussler's work requires a suspension of disbelief, there is nothing any more outrageous than earlier works. There are some minor points in the book that are weak, and the author did not endear himself to the Air National Guard, but again the points are very minor. There was one error, however it can be rationalized, and again is not detrimental to the book.<br />The book starts with not one, but multiple historical events which are all neatly tied together at the conclusion. The book is a lengthier novel and every bit of space is required to bring this latest round the world adventure to readers. Had he so chosen he could have easily extended the book by an additional one to two hundred pages. For when he starts this saga, it is millennia in the past, not a century or two.<br />With fiction conventional issues like time do not restrict the Author. He can write about his characters and their adventures indefinitely. Many Authors continue to write long after their characters should be retired, they don't know when to stop, like a great boxer that leaves not as a champion but as a beaten memory. Mr. Cussler clearly has no plans to retire this series, but he has also taken a step that is not only believable but will allow for this series of novels to continue for as long as he writes. I think he deserves a great deal of credit for this, and he brings it to pass with a slick ending to this book. In fact, I find myself looking forward to the next installment with greater interest than I have for some time.<br />For great fun, and pure escapist fiction, there are few who compare with Mr. Cussler.ional Guard, but again the points are very minor. There was one error, however it can be rationalized, and again is not detrimental to the book.<br />The book starts with not one, but multiple historical events which are all neatly tied together at the conclusion. The book is a lengthier novel and every bit of space is required to bring this latest round the world adventure to readers. Had he so chosen he could have easily extended the book by an additional one to two hundred pages. For when he starts this saga, it is millennia in the past, not a century or two.<br />With fiction conventional issues like time do not restrict the Author. He can write about his characters and their adventures indefinitely. Many Authors continue to write long after their characters should be retired, they don't know when to stop, like a great boxer that leaves not as a champion but as a beaten memory. Mr. Cussler clearly has no plans to retire this series, but he has also taken a step that is not only believable but will allow for this series of novels to continue for as long as he writes. I think he deserves a great deal of credit for this, and he brings it to pass with a slick ending to this book. In fact, I find myself looking forward to the next installment with greater interest than I have for some time.<br />For great fun, and pure escapist fiction, there are few who compare with Mr. Cussler.	2001-08-14
1879532:US	53047425	R3L1WWBMW9A12N	0805059725	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Will Still Be In Print 100 Years From Now	I think great books take their time. Length is not the measure, as that should be determined by what the Author has to say. Mr. Howard Bahr had a great deal to share during, The Year Of Jubilo, and at just under 400 pages the work is wonderful. Perhaps I have not read as many books on The Civil War to make the following comment, however this is unlike any other novel on the period I have read. The fundamental issues are all present but they do not overwhelm the story. The Author breaks many traditionally held beliefs in to a variety of feeling, not the absolutes that are more familiar. He brings characters that either by thought or action demonstrates their ambivalence about the war and the role they played in it.<br />The books beginning is one of the more brutal I have read. It is not gratuitous, however it is powerful and disturbing. Imagine the experience that embodies your greatest fear, then contemplate the event taking place, and finally add to your horror that you are blind. The Author takes this one step further, but the words must be read to be appreciated. This opening sequence sets up much of the book and while arguably the books darkest passage, events stretch all along the emotional spectrum to the very end.<br />The Author creates memorable characters with names that you could puzzle over for years and fail to guess their origin if it was not supplied. Think for a time why someone would gain the moniker, old 111. It was so clever and only one of many you will read.<br />War is evil, however that evil does not extend to all those who participate in its destruction. One man serves to satisfy a Judge, a man who eventually treats the former like Sisyphus as he continually adds conditions to the granting of his consent. The town that becomes the stage for the conflict when all conflict should be gone is not populated by the Confederacy or The Union Army alone. This group the writer brings together must eventually decide as individuals what is right and wrong without the traditional stereotypical hatreds as justifications.<br />The result is a portion of History that while brief is incredibly complex both for the events and the menagerie of characters that bring it to a conclusion. The Year Of Jubilo is a book I recommend without any hesitation, and one that took me far too long to pick up and read.s right and wrong without the traditional stereotypical hatreds as justifications.<br />The result is a portion of History that while brief is incredibly complex both for the events and the menagerie of characters that bring it to a conclusion. The Year Of Jubilo is a book I recommend without any hesitation, and one that took me far too long to pick up and read.	2001-08-13
1881919:US	53047425	R282BZCSGYNHU5	067081069X	301371377	The News from Ireland	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wonderful Writing About Despair	This is the second time that I have read the work of Mr. William Trevor. In this collection of twelve short stories, \\"The News From Ireland\\", the Author once again demonstrates his skill with the short story format. The volume contains stories that have commonality, however they do not need to be read as a collection, they all can stand-alone.<br />The stories in this collection are nearly uniform in their bleak outlook on life. Many of the stories are dark, and others bear results that while lacking any physical violence are as destructive to those they target as any physically blow. One of he best is entitled, \\"Her Mother's Daughter\\". This is a story that is simultaneously about misplaced loyalty at the expense of desperate need that is very close at hand. The final action that takes place is as cruel an action in any of the stories although it can be argued it was the result of conditioning and not malice. As with the first collection I read the fragility of many relationships, and the ignorance that prevents the forming of contact until a destructive event takes place, is once again explored. The great difference this time is that there is virtually none of the redemptive aspects that were present in the first book. It is not a collection of tales that portrays the best in people, and it reads as oppressively as the storylines require.<br />\\"The News From Ireland\\" that titles the book is as strong as any of the tales, and divides its format between a diary and narrative. This is a wonderful set of stories that are all complete and self-contained, however when read together the Author's message is not so much repeated as it is reinforced as they are read. Marvelous writing, highly recommended.	2001-08-11
1884111:US	53047425	R2UWVPYTNE63B4	0374192286	720749613	Love	Books	1	6	20	N	N	A Root Canal Is Preferable To This	I cannot say this is the worst book I have read in some time; for there are others I never bothered to finish. However, \\"Love\\", by Peter Nadas is the worst book I have finished in a very long time. The following is an example of what passes for writing, \\"I am here. All right. Not here but there. But Where?\\" The last time I read words like these was during a Dr. Seuss book, except his made sense. \\"The Cat In The Hat\\" is Nobel Prize level literature compared to this.<br />As the jacket explains the book opens with a couple indulging in the most painfully assembled THC laced cigarettes ever to be described. In the time Eva and her TLC has made one Tobacco/THC amalgam, the drivel in the book can be read. This collection of words is the result of an Author reaching for subjects that he is about 100 I.Q. points shy of understanding much less analyzing. I suppose this could be written off as some rambling incoherent result of having a very low tolerance to cigarettes of any kind, but that is presuming too much.<br />There was one moment of clarity bordering on brilliance when the Author wrote, \\"I've gone nuts. Crazy, and lost\\". I could not agree with him more.	2001-08-09
1885354:US	53047425	R27SL027UUMQV	477002049X	757286750	Riding the East Wind	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Exceedingly Well Done	&#8220;Riding The East Wind&#8221;, is not only a great story, it is also great History. From the photographs of Mother and Son on the cover, to the notes at the book&#8217;s end recording what happened to the Family and their friends after the War, this work is excellent. The translator is the award winning Mr. Ian Hideo Levy, and he has created a wonderfully readable version of Mr. Otohiko Kaga&#8217;s first book presented in English. This is a fascinating story of the days leading to the bombing of Pearl Harbor through the end of World War II. The only aspect I found very puzzling was the total lack of comment on either Hiroshima or Nagasaki. The fire bombing of the B-29 Bombers was discussed at length, and perhaps the Author felt this was enough, for the firestorms these raids often brought about literally erased cities. ....<br />The book is a sweeping view of Japanese Culture, how they viewed themselves, their allies, and their enemies. While never mentioning the actions of the US, great irony is demonstrated as the woman on the cover was American, and while despised was not interred in a camp as Japanese were in this Country. The book speaks in depth of the actions of the Kamikaze Pilots and Submariners that many found impossible to understand. ....<br />The Author explores citizenship based on blood, birth, and personal beliefs, together with the complexities they give rise to. Relations between Family, and romance between others is never maudlin, rather they illustrate the ability of the individual to stand alone with his or her own morality, when humanity at large has forgotten what the word means.<br />This is a great reading experience, and I recommend it without qualification.	2001-08-09
1887020:US	53047425	R2Q0EV59JZ9QEA	0743300610	59575208	Grave Images	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Endophyte Endofight Endoflight	Grave Images, by Author N.D. Hansen-Hill contains multiple lines of thought that make it difficult to restrict the novel to a specific genre. There is high tech biological research, corporate interference of the lethal sort, and spiritual events that are either helpful or horrific, and then there is the Art. There are also wraiths both carbon-based and those of the otherworldly variety. And to finish off the tale is a neat twist of an ending.<br />Books that include the dark sides of terror, wraiths, demons, and others are generally not the books I read. That is not a comment on the genre, rather a point in fact. I did read this book from end to end and I have another by the same Author I will be reading. He has published a number of works, so if you find yourself enjoying what he writes you will have plenty to choose from.<br />There were two aspects of the book that I want to mention. The first is a general statement. When the normal every day world we call reality clashes with what is as far from normal as is possible, the story often is taken over by the extra-normal. This book contained much content that virtually everyone would call terrifying, however the characters that were affected dealt with the events as opposed to being paralyzed by them. I also enjoyed much of the dialogue. There is a passage when a Priest is being brought to a locale for an Exorcism and the banter between him and his accomplice is a riot.<br />The primary character of Jarron is victimized and permanently altered mentally by the attack. The tale that follows is his coping with the new knowledge his damaged mind can access, and the cold logical mind of the scientist he remains.<br />As I mentioned, this genre is not what I typically read, but I do plan on continuing with this mans work.	2001-08-07
1888268:US	53047425	R1LYO5QCUOS5IB	0595170366	216250783	The Talking Onion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Welcome To The Hotel California	If Elm City Estates had a Hotel near it or within its confines, the Hotel the Eagles brought us would fit nicely. This book does not push the famous envelope it turns it to confetti! Author Paul Rosner takes the idealized suburb, complete with its own Dr. Welby, and explores uniformity, groupthink, hypocrisy, and a host of other human traits. This work is spectacular in its politically incorrect satire, although Former President Clinton would have fit in and loved one of his hosts, and the Author deflowers every sacred cow.<br />This is a book that takes truths and appears to radically distort them, and in many cases the Author has done this. However if you have ever lived in a condominium, or planned development, or the latest new urbanism, take a look at the book of rules you are subjected to, and, The Talking Onion, seems a great deal less strange. The penalties for rule breaking may not be of the through the looking glass genre as this burb, but when the materials you can build with, the colors that are allowed, whether children are welcome, and how tidy your yard must be kept, are all dictated, it is a slippery slope. Its one small step until your dog can only be walked 10-11 and 4-6 on Sundays and Holidays. Go ahead and laugh, as the guard at your gated community refuses to let your guests in, as the proper notification was not given. Or forget your resident ID, and the temporary rent a guard will require a consensus vote of your gated compound to let you in, oh yeah and a DNA Test.<br />This is a hyper drive version of The Twilight Zone, for now, but like all great satire it has its basis in fact. Maybe it should have been called, A Modest Proposal By A Talking Onion.<br />If those who make the rules have ever annoyed you, this book is for you. If you thought there should be a pill for moderating the negative effects of fluorescent lighting, grab a copy, and one for a friend. If the only Dove you have in your house is soap and not the type that flies out of your kitchen cabinet, immediately have ... this to your door. Finally, if you believe that people should live in harmony with the plants and animals that surround us, or have contemplated whether a head of lettuce might be painfully inconvenienced when ripped from the ground, get out the Platinum Card.<br />And if perchance you start hearing a neighbor or two humming or singing Pink Floyds, Comfortably Numb, while walking their pet during allotted hours, run to your real estate agent and sell.flies out of your kitchen cabinet, immediately have ... this to your door. Finally, if you believe that people should live in harmony with the plants and animals that surround us, or have contemplated whether a head of lettuce might be painfully inconvenienced when ripped from the ground, get out the Platinum Card.<br />And if perchance you start hearing a neighbor or two humming or singing Pink Floyds, Comfortably Numb, while walking their pet during allotted hours, run to your real estate agent and sell.	2001-08-07
1891102:US	53047425	REMQ08KIGYB9E	1585671312	307661108	To the Hermitage	Books	5	11	12	N	N	I Think The Author Had Fun	\\"To The Hermitage\\", by Malcolm Bradbury is the only work of his that I have read. I can say that I very much enjoyed the work, and was saddened to learn this was his last before his death. From The Preface when he states, \\"this is (I suppose) a story\\", and then he lists all the amendments he made to centuries of history from Architectural, Literary, the births of persons, and the layout of cities, he clearly seemed to be intent on having fun.<br />The main character sets out with a very diverse group to St. Petersburg as part of the collective named, \\"The Diderot Project\\". Ostensibly this is a scholarly event where the appropriate papers shall be shared on their voyage, and the rigorous standards of Academe will reign. Our Protagonist is unprepared with his paper and substitutes an off the cuff speech that if performed in real life would be nothing short of mesmerizing. Even written on the page it reads as though spontaneous in spite of the medium it is presented upon.<br />The intent of the trip is suspect almost from the start as one member of the entourage is a famous singer of opera and is almost as famously as ignorant of Mr. Diderot. Her lone claim is an influence she shares that Diderot had on pieces of Mozart's work. The balance of the group has a variety of academic credentials, however as the male members begin chasing, \\"Tatianas\\", all over the ship, the faade is dented if not torn altogether. This free and easy mingling takes place as the USSR is gaining the word former in front of it.<br />To the rescue is a parallel story featuring the dialogues/friendship of Diderot and Catherine The Great. Now again the reader is warned that historical figures that never met, do meet in this book because the Author feels they should have. So any dates you may know must be made flexible or forgotten. The Protagonists experiences and that of this historical version of Diderot and his travels trade the reader's attention back and forth throughout the book.<br />This work is a great deal of fun for the knowledge to document History is immense. To credibly alter History, add amusement, and restructure those portions as the writer chooses, is I believe, an even greater work of scholarship. For Mr. Bradbury did not write of History in the format as a novel because he lacked the truth, he did so because his knowledge allowed him to manipulate events to make his version entertaining, and in its own way credible. This really is a great piece of writing. I cannot compare it to other work this man has written, but if they are as good as this, I shall read them all.rk is a great deal of fun for the knowledge to document History is immense. To credibly alter History, add amusement, and restructure those portions as the writer chooses, is I believe, an even greater work of scholarship. For Mr. Bradbury did not write of History in the format as a novel because he lacked the truth, he did so because his knowledge allowed him to manipulate events to make his version entertaining, and in its own way credible. This really is a great piece of writing. I cannot compare it to other work this man has written, but if they are as good as this, I shall read them all.	2001-08-04
1891750:US	53047425	R3B8KFBU1COFI7	0814713351	93206754	The Luddite Rebellion	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Name Once Again Familiar	The term, \\"Luddite\\", is one that is invoked, at present, when rapid and momentous changes in technology are discussed. It also is often misused, Brian Bailey has written, \\"The Luddite Rebellion\\", in a concise history that gives historical substance and related facts to the term. Taken in its entirety I very much enjoyed the work, and it appears from the notes to be well documented. The Author is also scrupulous in pointing out when he switches from known fact to his interpretation or personal opinion. It was amongst these opinions that I found the only fault with the work. The Author's views stated as opinion and based upon documentary fact are fine. However at times he made very clear where his sympathies lay, and it was these moments the cadence of the book was broken, as well as confidence in pure objectivity.<br />Violence against machinery that escalated to the death of those on both sides of the issue is really a tragic story. The legal reforms that the Prince Regent answered the protesters with were inept, and unjustifiably extreme. This Prince was the Son of the King who amongst other events was known for, \\"The Madness Of King George\\". The stupidity of The Regent's actions was consistent with the madness of the Father. Lord Byron gave the most eloquent condemnation and summation of the underlying issues during his maiden speech in the House of Lords. Happily for the reader the speech is reproduced in its entirety as an appendix to the book.<br />While the book focuses primarily on a brief time span and a few counties in the early part of the 19th Century, the issues that drove these groups to violence are both much older and continue to the present. Advances in technology that make the worker redundant in a worst case, or lowers his financial utility at best, will always be fought in one manner or another. Add to this the willingness of those in power to often maximize the negative impact on their labor through greed, or by breaking laws, or conducting themselves so that new law must be written to stop them, and conflict again is both ensured and heightened.<br />The Author also explored whether there was a Political Agenda amongst the participants, or whether their motivation was purely personal financial grievance. I did not think this area was explored enough, and that may be the case because there is little to explore. Conspiracies involving Bonaparte of France may be both dramatic and romantic, but it does not make them legitimate.<br />Overall a good book for anyone interested in The Luddite Rebellion, what and when it was, and what and when it was not.elves so that new law must be written to stop them, and conflict again is both ensured and heightened.<br />The Author also explored whether there was a Political Agenda amongst the participants, or whether their motivation was purely personal financial grievance. I did not think this area was explored enough, and that may be the case because there is little to explore. Conspiracies involving Bonaparte of France may be both dramatic and romantic, but it does not make them legitimate.<br />Overall a good book for anyone interested in The Luddite Rebellion, what and when it was, and what and when it was not.	2001-08-04
1891758:US	53047425	R1J7Q3AAI990PE	0715614959	221603502	Winter Garden	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wickedly Clever	Winter Garden, by Ms. Beryl Bainbridge is both an earlier work, and one of her novels I have most enjoyed. Best known for the historically based fiction she has been writing as of late, this work while taking part in a referenced period of recent history is not predicated on a given event.<br />This is a tale of deception and misdirection from the opening page. A group is making a trip to Brezhnevs Russia. The core is a group of artists who ostensibly are going to travel and meet with their peers in The Soviet Union. Guests are allowed and one is an Admiralty Lawyer who takes the trip to share the company of Nina, and not to Scotland to fish, as he would like those he has left behind to believe. All is well until they board their flight and trifles like seating arrangements emerge as problems. From this point on nothing is as it seems, and the truth is not revealed until presented literally in the closing sentences.<br />Between the first and final page Ms. Bainbridge assembles a plot worthy of the great Hitchcock himself. In some of her books the Author does not always immediately bring the interest of the reader to a high pitch. She does however keep the reader interested enough, so that as she proceeds bits and pieces are brought to notice, and the more carefully they are noted the faster the trapdoor she drops you through at the end is reached. However this is not to suggest that the fall you finally take is the only one you stand upon. Ms. Bainbridge is brilliant at letting you believe the obvious only to have it dashed as meaningless the solutions you anticipate.<br />I have read and commented upon most of this Authors work, and while not all are perfect, none disappoint, and all should appeal to a very wide audience.	2001-08-04
1892268:US	53047425	R2NS7BIKO02K6X	0715606573	135017054	Harriet Said....	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Terrifying Teens	\\"Harriet Said\\", by Ms. Beryl Bainbridge is an amazing study of two young women and how mischief is just the beginning of a trip that ends with what we would hope was madness. Hope is wishful thinking, for there is nothing in the pasts of these young girls to justify their increasingly bizarre behavior, nor does the balance of what we are exposed to suggest justification.<br />I have not yet read all of this Author's work, however aberrant and shockingly cruel behavior is not unusual. This time is very different for the players involved are only 13 and 14 years of age. The title suggests that one girl leads the other blindly in a sort of singular sort of peer pressure. However this is not case, for there is very little pressure and certainly no coercion. Additionally strange is that the younger of the two is the catalyst if one is chosen.<br />The time period is not long after WWII, and the behavior that is at the root of events is the girl's awareness and willingness to use their very young selves to manipulate men. The youngest mentioned is 19, and the eldest the better part of 60. The other twisted aspect is that while we experience their actions while there are of the ages that I mentioned, they clearly began their adventures at an earlier age.<br />There is nothing in the book that is physically graphic, or gratuitous in a puerile sense. The Author communicates just how frightening these girls are by sharing only their thoughts and those they record together in a shared diary. Their actions, when they take place, have been introduced to a degree by this written document they co-author. This is a very dangerous story of two children that if handled by a lesser Author would have been just a tabloid tale. In Ms. Bainbridge's hands these girls and others like them are so frightening because they could be any child on your street, or worse a child in your house. If not for its realism this could be passed off as a horror story, however this is more like a lengthy article on true events.icle on true events.	2001-08-03
1893726:US	53047425	RXWNOTTI2RUMM	0820322431	73072864	Ice Age	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Pick A World	Ice Age, is both a collection of 10 stories and the debut of Author Mr. Robert Anderson. The jacket suggests that this writer is taking readers into the world of the absurd, and mixing the concrete of reality with the surreal. I would normally find that type of description to be pretentious and obscure, an attempt to infuse meaning into work where there is none. Such is not the case with this work. I put this book down many, many times, however the parts I believe I understood eventually took me in.<br />This is the type of book that I would love to hear the Author read from and explain what he wanted his readers to glean from his words. I want to emphasize that I normally have no interest in this sort of work, and to the extent I, understood, the Author I probably understood very little. This is not light reading and you must force yourself through passages that seem nothing more than collections of meaningless wordplay. However this man can write.<br />Religion, life, death, and time are common elements among the 10 tales. The stories vary in their intensity, and more than one are very hard edged in their use of language and stereotypes. It is actually hard to comment on these, as it would not get posted here.<br />To give an idea of what awaits the reader, the final story, like a few others, contains a person from real life, in this case Jimi Hendrix. If the idea of Hendrix visiting Los Angeles as he contemplates his recent death sounds interesting, that is just the start. Now imagine Hendrix with a Mother Superior breaking down the looking-glass reality we call life, and Hendrix then taking calls on a sort of 1-800-help line. He doles off advice and wisdom while laying out Tarot Card Hands and interpreting for the caller. This is just a small section of the story, and if it appeals, you will love the balance.<br />This type of writing in my opinion walks a very fine line from experimenting with the absurd, and only being absurd. This Author stays on the legitimate side of the line, with some lapses that are either beyond me, or are just abstract word art.<br />A very unusual read, which is very worthwhile if only to experience a very different genre of work.the legitimate side of the line, with some lapses that are either beyond me, or are just abstract word art.<br />A very unusual read, which is very worthwhile if only to experience a very different genre of work.	2001-08-02
1893728:US	53047425	R1LHASXELEPLQZ	080760965X	214483749	Another part of the wood	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not One Of Her Best	This is one of the earliest of Ms. Bainbridge's works that I have read. It differs from the more familiar of her works in that it does not take place during a notable period of History, or during an event of Historic note. This time the cast is limited and she has isolated them at a sort of country retreat. The interaction amongst the group is the focus this time, not a group that is coping with each other in addition to events of great magnitude.<br />Most of the people on this Holiday are less than welcome guests. Many are present as a result of those who were invited taking the liberty of inviting their own guests as well. The group includes adults that are either odd bordering on eccentricity, relationships that are all dysfunctional, and two adolescents that are caught in their midst. To be more specific there is one male egomaniac, and a second male that is as creative with the truth as his egocentric counterpart.<br />My only thoughts as to what the Author was getting at would center primarily on the two young boys. One is a son and deemed normal; the other is a sort of foster child that is assigned a variety of labels, none that are flattering. It is the boys and their actions that eventually take over the story, and the adults remain oblivious to what is unfolding.<br />The book does make a dramatic point as all her works do, it is just that this one is either a bit more opaque in approaching her ending, or I missed something along the way. I have read enough of her work to feel confident it is not the latter, but that will be for others to decide for themselves.	2001-08-02
1893942:US	53047425	RJ79CHCBC4OI3	015100482X	84454249	Mozart: A Cultural Biography	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Unless New Information Requires Revision	This twelve-year effort by Mr. Robert W. Gutman to create a cultural biography around the core that was Mozart, should meet the needs of those educated in music, or those like myself who are fascinated with this genius of History. This work is massive by any measure and even the Author suggested certain passages could be passed over by less sophisticated students of Mozart's work, and music in general.<br />I read this work over a lengthy period of time as the material is very dense, and the book is more like a collection than a single volume. This is a Biography of Mozart, and also biographies of those who were Family, his peers, and The Monarchs who ruled during his short life. It is a work of History as well. For Mozart the person, throughout the book is always placed within the context of the events surrounding him. Politics would influence where he could play, as would religion, all forms of civil disobedience, and war. In this sense the work has as an element Political Science as well. The Author includes detailed economic facts from the smallest of costs that were included for a concert tour, to the largesse that was or was not handed to Mozart by a variety of Royal Courts. These latter two issues were obsessions with his Father. Mozart Sr. not only micro-managed the lives of his children, but also was constantly vying for the good graces of the wealthy, The Nobility, as well as The Royalty, and dealing with all manner of court intrigue in hopes of his personal advancement.<br />For any who became interested in Mozart after seeing, \\"Amadeus\\", this book, as others do, portrays the composer as at times a colorful individual, but not the debauched character that was seen in the film. His writings at times are colorful in the extreme; his ego and his expressions of his self-importance do not always commend him. However his genius cannot be denied, and while not as raucous as the movie version, Mozart would never be accused of being a bore at gatherings.<br />I am glad that I read this book, and it will certainly serve as a reference source. I would not recommend this as the first book to read on Mozart unless Music is your field of study. To truly appreciate what the Author has created, and to gain all the knowledge the book contains, an individual must have much more than a passing interest in Mozart. Mr. Gutman has created a scholarly work that would seem to set a standard that will be hard to surpass.glad that I read this book, and it will certainly serve as a reference source. I would not recommend this as the first book to read on Mozart unless Music is your field of study. To truly appreciate what the Author has created, and to gain all the knowledge the book contains, an individual must have much more than a passing interest in Mozart. Mr. Gutman has created a scholarly work that would seem to set a standard that will be hard to surpass.	2001-08-02
1896827:US	53047425	R192250A2OS6C1	0375420533	492762162	Dream Stuff: Stories	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great Talent With Short Stories	I have read and commented upon seven of the nine novels that David Malouf has written. His novels are not lengthy but they all share the great talent this writer has. \\"Dream Stuff\\", is a collection of nine short stories that appear together for the first time. Just as he has done many times over with his novels, he presents a series of shorter works that are uniformly very good, and some that are excellent.<br />There are two stories that were of great interest as the Author chose children to narrate the tale. At the age of 9 in, \\"Closer\\", a young girl is the hostess for the story, and in, \\"Blacksoil Country\\", our young male guide is but twelve. The choice of youth for narrators was interesting as the stories they shared were those of adult situations, feelings and actions. The word precocious would not accurately measure the insight these children have.<br />All of the stories tend toward the darker spectrums of Human Nature. Even when the tale may just be deeply sad I believe it still shows the more negative aspects of people and Family. There is one story that stands out for its absolute brutality. It is particularly savage as it is unexpected, and random in its violence. Unfortunately it reflects what we too often read of in the news.<br />I highly recommend the work of this Author. I have never picked up one of his works and come away with anything less than great admiration for his skill.	2001-07-31
1897154:US	53047425	R2J3ER7R9B27VT	0375503374	45103098	Kingdom of Shadows: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	To The Extent It Proceeds.Elegant	\\"Kingdom Of Shadows\\", by Alan Furst is my initial exposure to this writer's work. He is good, very good; suggesting that this work will appeal to the admirers of Mr. John LeCarre is entirely reasonable. Mr. Furst writes with confidence, and a smooth credibility that allows readers to suspend disbelief, and become wrapped in the authenticity he creates.<br />The time period and locales are sometimes familiar, however he also brings his readers amongst participants in World War II that are usually lost amongst the larger players in stories of intrigue. One of the more refreshing attributes of his writing is that he does not turn every doorman or driver of a taxi into James Bond. If a character has certain skills it is because he or she has come by them by experience, not Author convenience. This restraint from the use of contrived, shrill, theatrical characters that can be transposed from one thriller to another are happily absent from this man's work. He also has the sense a delicate touch that allows him to portray intimacy without sounding like cretinous locker room banter.<br />The time in History for his protagonist's exploits is just before World War was to break loose for the second time in as many decades. Nicholas Morath who we shadow around Europe could easily have become a clich&eacute;, or worse a caricature. This is especially true as his position in society changes, however the Author never looses control of his character. The result is a book that is tense, filled with intrigue, and lacking in repetitive events this genre is filled with.<br />My only complaint is that the book ended as opposed to resolving the storyline. It may be the Author intends to continue with these characters. However even if this is the case, I found the ending abrupt.	2001-07-31
1901013:US	53047425	R24LINEI2PT4V3	0786703229	328922523	The Dressmaker	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Startling	I have read about a dozen of this lady's works, and this is one of the more chilling tales I have experienced. Everything about the characters is artificial bordering on unnatural. I found the cadence of the book slow, almost plodding, however taken as a complete tale the very opposite is the case.<br />A young girl Rita described as, \\"wrapped in tissue paper all her life\\", lives with two Aunts, with frequent visits from her, \\"Uncle\\". Those that have raised her live lives so bereft of anything worth mentioning, that their nurturing of this child into a young woman cannot produce a practically educated woman, much less a confident individual who is worldly wise. When Rita decides to step out with her peers to engage with young men, the participation from the mentioned relatives ranges from too little too late, to reprehensibly cruel.<br />The Uncle who is a butcher cannot abide blood when an assistant cuts himself. One Aunt has created a museum of her Mother's furniture and knickknacks inclusive of a severe portrait of the deceased that overlooks this memorial. While this could be called eccentric, the author elevates the obsession exponentially.<br />Nothing is positive in this view of World War II England. Even the American Soldiers are described as having but 3 faults; they are overpaid, oversexed, and over here. Even the cat that haunts this house has a name that is unprintable here, however the moniker is consistent with commentary on Catholics, Mongrel Americans, and others ad nauseum.<br />Ms. Bainbridge writes wonderful work that really needs to be read to the final page. She does not tip her hand, the ending is only predictable as the pages left become fewer, and only when she is ready does she deliver her sometimes-dramatic conclusion. In this event it is a bit like a hammer between the eyes.<br />Once again, \\"The Dressmaker\\", is another a unique tale from this wonderfully diverse Author, and is well worth your time.	2001-07-28
1901142:US	53047425	R2JUX67NO2TVIT	0312252897	471465284	The Widow Killer: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	One Step Beyond Chaos	It would be hard for an Author to have more sterling credentials than Mr. Pavel Kohout. He was born in Prague in 1928, he was a leader in, \\"The Prague Spring\\", in 1968, and finally with Vaclav Havel he helped create the freedom document, \\"Charta 77\\", in 1977. As his book is set in Prague it resonates with the level of detail that only a native could know and share. I used the idea of beyond chaos as a reference to the time he chose to set his tale. I cannot imagine a more frenzied period than the closing months of a war when competing, \\"Allies\\", are intent on taking over your city. Mr. Kohout added to this frenetic environment a particularly brutal serial killer with multiple demons that drive him.<br />There is yet a third layer of conflict on an individual level as several of the characters are trying to resolve their actions during the war with their respective nationalities. Prague was unique in that it was a protectorate, so while occupied it still maintained an indigenous Police Force however closely monitored by the Nazi Invaders. These opposing forces and their members must work in concert to solve a crime just as the relationships and power structures that have governed their lives for 6 years are crumbling by the day, and eventually from moment to moment.<br />For me the book worked very well for much of the beginning and the end. In fact these two portions make up the majority of the book. There were some decisions made about who would participate in the capture of the killer, and I found them hard to take as credible, and very predictable in their outcome. Taken as a whole the work is well above most contributions to the genre, and additionally brings the first hand life experiences of the Author.<br />Another aspect that deserves mention is one female player he singles out that seems to embody so much of what the occupying Germans fear they will face as a result of how Germany will be perceived after the war. This woman can be exasperating, as she seems to be enigmatic at best, and to speak in riddles at worst. However as the tale unwinds she becomes a reflection of the more complicated of the wars conundrums.<br />This is a special book that could stand alone simply on the quality it is imbued with. When the Author is a man who has been in the midst of his Country's History, his words and the experiences he relates raise the work to another level of credibility. It may indeed be fiction, but if you were to walk the streets with this book in hand, you would probably be left with a feeling that it would serve as a guide for your trip through Prague.<br />A very well done work definitely deserving of your time.to be enigmatic at best, and to speak in riddles at worst. However as the tale unwinds she becomes a reflection of the more complicated of the wars conundrums.<br />This is a special book that could stand alone simply on the quality it is imbued with. When the Author is a man who has been in the midst of his Country's History, his words and the experiences he relates raise the work to another level of credibility. It may indeed be fiction, but if you were to walk the streets with this book in hand, you would probably be left with a feeling that it would serve as a guide for your trip through Prague.<br />A very well done work definitely deserving of your time.	2001-07-28
1901373:US	53047425	R18MSBO0GOF8RM	0595156770	387249908	A Deadly Exchange	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This Lady Will Be Back	First time novelist Sheryl Jane Stafford has produced, \\"A Deadly Exchange\\", and while classified as a novel it is also a very personal work due to the basis for one of the main characters. The man in the book who's history of service to his country includes being held by the Vietnamese from 1967 when his plane was struck by a missile, is based on the Husband of the Author. Commander Hugh Allen Stafford endured the horrors of a Prisoner Of War while serving his country. His story, like others who were confined and abused, is a testament to his bravery and to those who shared his experience. I make this note at the outset, for bringing back those experiences in a book is a tribute not only to him, but also his wife. I don't know that anyone less attached could have brought his story to a novel with such dignity and sensitivity.<br />If this book had not been suggested to me I would probably never have read it. This is not due to the quality of the work; rather, as this is a self-published debut novel, the likelihood of it being displayed as you walk into a bookstore is slim to nonexistent. Mrs. Stafford has been published in what appear to be regional publications, and has done well in judged short story competitions; this is her first published novel. Based on this first work, it will not be her last, and the next will be easier to find.<br />This writer has written a very good debut effort. This, in part, can be credited to her writing about what she knows. This is supposed to be a guiding principle when writing, however it is easier to find books that are penned and filled with guesswork. The authenticity of this work stems from the fact that both the husband and wife in the book, and the Author and her husband have commonality. Both, \\"couples\\", sail among the Bahamian Islands. As this story takes place largely at sea, at anchor, or in between, it is a great read partly because the Author has done it, and she has the added talent of taking her thoughts and feelings from her experiences and transferring them to the page. She also happily is able to do so without resorting to clich&eacute;s.<br />It is of course fiction, but what she conjures is good because it shares company with what she knows. When she does turn to pure fiction she is clever at developing characters, especially the seedier ones, and she places dialogue in their mouths that is edgy, funny, and errrr.... colorful. I don't mean that as a negative, the dialogue is well done, she has an ear for edgy staccato banter, and I very much enjoyed it.<br />There was one very brief part of the story when a, \\"Pablo Escobar type\\", speaks of his plans for the US that I thought was a bit over the top, but others will decide for themselves. I also found the ending a bit abrupt, and I always take issue when I read books that seem to stop before I'm prepared to stop my reading. I suppose that's a left-handed compliment, however it's a matter of what individual readers like.<br />The four stars are because this is a first work, and because I believe if this lady continues with additional works, she will continue to develop her obvious talents. This as anew Author who is worthy of your time.<br />To her husband and the other Veterans of Vietnam, you are part of, \\"The Greatest Generation\\", too, and thanks for your sacrifices.from her experiences and transferring them to the page. She also happily is able to do so without resorting to clichs.<br />It is of course fiction, but what she conjures is good because it shares company with what she knows. When she does turn to pure fiction she is clever at developing characters, especially the seedier ones, and she places dialogue in their mouths that is edgy, funny, and errrr.... colorful. I don't mean that as a negative, the dialogue is well done, she has an ear for edgy staccato banter, and I very much enjoyed it.<br />There was one very brief part of the story when a, \\"Pablo Escobar type\\", speaks of his plans for the US that I thought was a bit over the top, but others will decide for themselves. I also found the ending a bit abrupt, and I always take issue when I read books that seem to stop before I'm prepared to stop my reading. I suppose that's a left-handed compliment, however it's a matter of what individual readers like.<br />The four stars are because this is a first work, and because I believe if this lady continues with additional works, she will continue to develop her obvious talents. This as anew Author who is worthy of your time.<br />To her husband and the other Veterans of Vietnam, you are part of, \\"The Greatest Generation\\", too, and thanks for your sacrifices.	2001-07-28
1903576:US	53047425	R2WFV5NZFJ26MB	0684847477	865913794	Wide As the Waters: The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Excellent History Regardless Of Specific Faith	\\"Wide As The Waters\\", could easily be classified as a book about the evolution of The English Bible, and by extension a discussion exclusively of The Christian Faith. This presumption would greatly decrease the potential audience, and do a disservice to a remarkably readable and scholarly dissertation upon the events that produced what many consider the finest version of this book. This is not simply an explanation about The King James Bible and those that did the necessary translation. It is a sweeping view of the history of The Bible, its misuse as a political defense and weapon, and the centuries it took to bring the work to fruition. Contrary to what many believe, The King James Bible was not the first Bible in English, it was not the second, fifth, or even the tenth. Bibles that preceded it were produced in dozens of editions preceding the King James. The story of those who brought this remarkable product of scholarship to its fruition is nothing short of astounding. Whether or not your Faith coincides with The Bible, or whether you enjoy excellent dispassionate History, this book is a brilliant work, penned by the inspired Historian Benson Bobrick.<br />The variety of interests that sought to produce the definitive English translation was a varied group. There were Kings, Queens, Popes, and dozens of others that would eventually contribute to the final product. At one point The Catholic Church was so fragmented that it had no less than 3 Popes claiming St. Peter's Throne simultaneously. These same people in power either encouraged or caused the martyrdom of men like John Wycliffe, William Tyndale, and Miles Coverdale. Henry VIII, Edward IV, Mary Tudor, and Elizabeth I, were just some of the memorable monarchs in the drama.<br />The greatest impact was the knowledge that was taken from the obscurity of languages known only be a few, who often would interpret the writings for their own agenda. No longer would The Bible be the hostage of Church Monopoly; it would finally be in the hands for which it was intended. While this event promoted the massive increase in books and printing, it also gave rise to individual interpretation that eventually leads to The Reformation. It will also bring to an end the Divine Right Of Kings, and other events of major Historical import.<br />Anyone who has looked at comparisons between the varieties of English Bibles can see how easily meaning can be changed, how entire concepts can be altered. The Author does a wonderful job of supplying enough examples of the issues the original translators faced without making the reading obscure. He demonstrates the importance of what text was to be used, Latin, Latin Vulgate, Ancient Greek, Hebrew, or Aramaic. He makes clear that rarely would any two people make identical translations whether due to style or personal agenda. It forces readers to ponder just what would be read if the ancient texts were read as intended. Instead we read a book that has been revised and edited extensively.<br />One portion that I greatly enjoyed were the familiar passages that the Author highlighted as some of the great English Prose that has been written. Like Shakespeare's words they remain so familiar to the ear though written in the 14th Century.<br />This is a remarkable work that virtually anyone can enjoy.finally be in the hands for which it was intended. While this event promoted the massive increase in books and printing, it also gave rise to individual interpretation that eventually leads to The Reformation. It will also bring to an end the Divine Right Of Kings, and other events of major Historical import.<br />Anyone who has looked at comparisons between the varieties of English Bibles can see how easily meaning can be changed, how entire concepts can be altered. The Author does a wonderful job of supplying enough examples of the issues the original translators faced without making the reading obscure. He demonstrates the importance of what text was to be used, Latin, Latin Vulgate, Ancient Greek, Hebrew, or Aramaic. He makes clear that rarely would any two people make identical translations whether due to style or personal agenda. It forces readers to ponder just what would be read if the ancient texts were read as intended. Instead we read a book that has been revised and edited extensively.<br />One portion that I greatly enjoyed were the familiar passages that the Author highlighted as some of the great English Prose that has been written. Like Shakespeare's words they remain so familiar to the ear though written in the 14th Century.<br />This is a remarkable work that virtually anyone can enjoy.	2001-07-26
1905523:US	53047425	R3NROWW75D76OH	078670697X	722586933	Master Georgie	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Very Dark Historical Fiction	Ms. Beryl Bainbridge writes Historical Fiction with as much skill as any writer, and much better than others who attempt the genre. Her stories rarely have definitive separations between what actually happened, and what might have happened to the characters she creates. The Crimean War is the setting this time, and while historically noteworthy is not as familiar as some of her other subjects, like The Titanic, or the doomed Scott Expedition to the South Pole. What is consistent is her ability to jump about through time periods without ever losing credibility. Each of her books reads as if a unique pen is behind each one. The hand of course is the same, however the moods created are remarkably singular.<br />The character that is the book's title is a complex human study, or if you prefer, a very intricate person but occupied with a mind and personality as muddled, as it is diverse. A grotesque death scene is the entrance for one of the narrator's of the book, an individual that would have lived as a street urchin but for chance, and an ambiguous bit of goodwill. A second street personality with many more wiles and flexible conduct also becomes a member of Master Georgie's entourage. This second narrator has a unique view of events, as he is close when Master Georgie requires, for the latter's sexuality is repressed at best. These are just two people who eventually head to the middle of The Crimean War, and the question that keeps shadowing the reader is why?<br />Escape from the latter half of 19th century London is an easy answer for George, but what of the others? Taking a trip toward an impending war as George's groupies is one matter, staying in the midst of a war is much more puzzling. This is one of the most difficult of Ms. Bainbridge's books that I have read. Previous works have often served as a metaphor for the time they occupy, or the closing act in a World that is about to undergo great disruptive change. This work is not as apparently decisive.<br />One characteristic is consistent, and that is her master's grasp of language. A lapful of cherries that serve as a metaphor will haunt a reader for some time. Her images of the dead and dying are less grotesquely graphic than most writers portray, but are far more disturbing than other wartime battles. This may not be the best of her work if it is the first of hers you experience, however if you can successfully decipher this one, that are several others that are much more comfortable to read.e characteristic is consistent, and that is her master's grasp of language. A lapful of cherries that serve as a metaphor will haunt a reader for some time. Her images of the dead and dying are less grotesquely graphic than most writers portray, but are far more disturbing than other wartime battles. This may not be the best of her work if it is the first of hers you experience, however if you can successfully decipher this one, that are several others that are much more comfortable to read.	2001-07-25
1906397:US	53047425	R3E0MB7C89DP25	1582430837	122266781	The Visitor	Books	5	14	14	N	N	This Is The Place To Start	\\"The Visitor\\", by Maeve Brennan was found in an archive after her death, and now resides at The University Of Notre Dame. It is her earliest known writing, and the book was created from the only known copy of the manuscript. Written sometime during the 1940's, it represents her earliest work, and is older than her first published piece with The New Yorker in 1950, when she was 34 years of age. Christopher Carduff who has edited all of the posthumous work of this writer and he provides an Editor's note at the end of the volume that is the most concise and accurate description of her work I have read.<br />If you start with this work the balance of her writings will be understood as she intended them to be read. For though her later work contains humor, it is simply a veneer for dark feelings of contempt, selfishness, and the ice-cold characters she portrays. I have read all of her fiction and this is easily the most mean spirited. There is nothing here to soften the main character, she is cruelty personified. If ranked amongst Dickens' darkest portrayals of the blackness of the human heart, this grandmother would rank near the very top. This same woman is also a contagion; for if one spends enough time with her she can cause another behave in ways that otherwise would be foreign and unnatural.<br />If you have yet to discover this wonderful writer this is the place to begin. For this brief tale is the start of 4 decades of work that can in many instances be traced back to the dark side of human nature first written in, \\"The Visitor\\". The work and the editor's note will send you back, to again read her stories even if you have enjoyed them before. The amazing aspect of this story is that it foreshadows not only what will become of her later writing, but also contains another human condition that she too will become a victim of later in her life.	2001-07-24
1908355:US	53047425	R1WRAZEICFNNBU	1585671452	514900946	The Carpenter's Pencil	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Requires A Bit Of Patience	\\"The Carpenter's Pencil\\", is a wonderful short novel. There are times it becomes a bit confusing to track who or what is relating the story. However the small amount of time invested to sort out the voices is more than well rewarded. The book also contained something I had not seen before. There were two poems referenced in the book, and they were included in their entirety in appendices. One is from the 19th and the other the 13th Century. It was a pleasant change to be able to read the entire poems rather than be limited to excerpts in the main text.<br />There are about 8-10 different players that appear. The number arrived at depends on how much you feel a character must contribute, and how they make that contribution. Must a person be present in the flesh, or can they continue to influence events after death? The book begins in a contemporary setting and then quickly returns to the story of the man a reporter has come to interview. This is when the book really shines with a love story and an unlikely cast that make the union of the two lovers possible.<br />The primary tale of memory takes place just before, through, and finally after Franco's rule over Spain has ended. This end allows for some who were forced to flee to return home, a home that they fought for and were punished by. The brief work is really very good, for while it is brief it conveys a story that feels almost epic in its tightly written and intricate prose.<br />A bit of effort to be sure you have the voices sorted out, and you will enjoy a wonderful novella.	2001-07-23
1908380:US	53047425	RUX6S5ENN81A8	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	5	57	90	N	N	Ideologue Masquerading As Historian	\\"Lying About Hitler\\", by Professor Richard J. Evans is a powerful, meticulous, and deeply troubling summation of his preparation for, and testimony at the David Irving Trial. The idea that a trial was needed to prove that the Holocaust did take place despite the writings of the rabid anti-Semite David Irving is almost beyond belief. The fact that the trial was brought by a suit initiated by David Irving is astounding. For while his life has been consumed by creating History as he wanted it to be, reading his words as he impales his ideas and himself would have been pathetic were his victims History at all questionable. However here his public and professional suicide was appropriate.<br />What is very disturbing is that even after he was exposed for nothing more than an ideologue that twisted facts when he needed to, and created them from thin air when there was nothing to twist, is that his peers did not ostracize him completely and without exception. By peers I refer to legitimate Historians whose work is accurate and can be verified. History can certainly be revised when new facts are learned, but never when they are the creation of a fertile yet fetid mind. This was not a blow to free speech as some have suggested. Free speech does not grant the right to create and represent as true, that, which the writer knows to be false, or worse, information that the writer has conjured. The only Historians that should feel threatened by this trials' outcome should logically be those who are concerned as to how well their work is documented, and free of ludicrous speculation.<br />Professional Historians must be held to a much higher standard than other writers. Through their work they document our History and serve as custodians of the past. We must be able to rely upon them, and also on their peers to see that writers of hate-based novels like those of David Irving never reach a courtroom. His fictions must be marginalized to those of his kind who have made the decision to retreat from what is true and create their own hate-filled version of the world.<br />Professor Evans is also to be commended for discussing the fact that while the Jews were unquestionably the primary target of Hitler and his sociopaths, there were also hundreds of thousands of non-Jews who were slaughtered together alongside the Jews in the camps. The survivors of the crimes of World War II are becoming fewer in number every day. As they pass and their numbers decline so will the power of the advocacy they can summon. This is the challenge moving forward, to ensure the record remains accurate and free from the diseases that are David Irving and his ilk.<br />This is a wonderfully readable book that sets out what History is, and what it is not. As long as there are men and woman who are willing to dedicate their time and skills to the destruction of these falsifiers, these deniers, both our History and our Future are safe.o retreat from what is true and create their own hate-filled version of the world.<br />Professor Evans is also to be commended for discussing the fact that while the Jews were unquestionably the primary target of Hitler and his sociopaths, there were also hundreds of thousands of non-Jews who were slaughtered together alongside the Jews in the camps. The survivors of the crimes of World War II are becoming fewer in number every day. As they pass and their numbers decline so will the power of the advocacy they can summon. This is the challenge moving forward, to ensure the record remains accurate and free from the diseases that are David Irving and his ilk.<br />This is a wonderfully readable book that sets out what History is, and what it is not. As long as there are men and woman who are willing to dedicate their time and skills to the destruction of these falsifiers, these deniers, both our History and our Future are safe.	2001-07-23
1909723:US	53047425	R3K2MR7BNBOTMC	0595165311	325795102	Night Train to Rangoon	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not Just A Train	Closer to 4 stars than three.<br />Author Paul Rosner has assembled a group of characters that whether flying, traveling by rail, or by car, are eclectic, eccentric, likable, lovable, homicidal, easy to despise, and more. Some are characters you will support, while many others you would happily see thrown from the plane. And to round this menagerie out, there are the most polite hijackers, and of course love interests that, whether real or imagined, quickly pass the familiar triangle on their way to something approximating an octagonal.<br />It would be both too easy and unfair to say this novel is nothing more than a derivative Agatha Christie adventure. It is accurate that a portion of this story takes place on a train, involves dark crimes and passions, and some dark humor. But however much it may remind you of the classics of this genre this book is done well. There are those who imitate because they lack original thought, however Authors who write a good tale can be legitimate members of a genre, Mr. Rosner is decidedly in the latter group.<br />The Author is also a member of a growing number of, \\"self-published\\", writers that for whatever reasons are not part of the select few who habitually clutter the top spots on the bestseller lists. There are many writers who produce great books, there are also those who gain a celebrity endorsement and are immediately, \\"legitimized\\", celebrated, and their books are bought by the ton. Hopefully writers who are published with some assistance, or by small publishers will continue to gain more attention and become more widely read. There are a large number of very good writers who in time may find their way to various rankings that help the sale of books. When they do it will be after earning a following and not a seal of approval that means nothing as it pertains to the quality of what resides between the covers.<br />Mr. Rosner has written a solid book for mystery fans with his debut novel. It is every bit as good as the first efforts of the more familiar brand names, and better than some on the present bestseller list. It is not perfect but is written with the skill to justify further books. I don't believe picking apart new Authors on minor detail is important as long as the whole is well planned. One of the issues that stuck in my throat was a person who was no marksman gunning down an individual from an extraordinary distance from an elevated position. Bug issue no, in later works I am sure these details will be refined.irst efforts of the more familiar brand names, and better than some on the present bestseller list. It is not perfect but is written with the skill to justify further books. I don't believe picking apart new Authors on minor detail is important as long as the whole is well planned. One of the issues that stuck in my throat was a person who was no marksman gunning down an individual from an extraordinary distance from an elevated position. Bug issue no, in later works I am sure these details will be refined.	2001-07-22
1910824:US	53047425	R3F4I187G4842P	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	21st Century Dickenscyclonic Writing	Just as he was with his work, \\"Snow Crash\\", Neal Stephenson once again has taken a technology that was recently hailed as the, \\"next big thing\\", on a major financial magazine cover, and created one world-changing scenario this technology could have. His scenario was written in the years prior to appearing as a book in February of 1995. He may not be the only Author to have pondered what Nanotechnology could mean, but he certainly did take the concept and use it as the basis for altering life on this planet.<br />As with, \\"Snow Crash\\", a reader could comment on dozens of topics the Author made part of his story. I think most would agree the center of attention for changing society's future, is Nell's book, just as movable type in Guttenberg's 15th century printing press changed the world of its time. The book in question this time is an interactive piece of technology that has nearly unimaginable amounts of stored information, the ability to adapt, and to virtually adopt its owner. Its construction was done an atom at a time, no simple construction for this work. The person for whom the book was written versus the person, who actually gained possession, causes the old debate of nature versus nurture in a person's development.<br />This is merely one facet of what this book explores. Language, religion, cultural differences, right to life issues, child abuse, and dozens of other topics make appearances of varying length. This Author does not simply take technology and spin a science fictional tale. He uses it as a core around which he wraps an entire world in remarkable detail.<br />If I had to choose between, \\"Diamond Age\\", and \\"Snow Crash\\", I would probably pick the later if only because it was a smoother story. \\"Diamond Age\\", is no less complex, however it runs parallel tales that are not of equal interest, the story is harder to grasp when it comes to the main theme, and the ending is a bit abrupt. I still give the book five stars for I would have given its predecessor more than five. If this book were read once again I am sure even more detail would become apparent, making the story clearer.<br />I still feel Neal Stephenson is working in a genre and at a level that he inhabits, if not alone, then with very few others. His mind and his ability to put his thoughts onto paper is nothing short of amazing.essor more than five. If this book were read once again I am sure even more detail would become apparent, making the story clearer.<br />I still feel Neal Stephenson is working in a genre and at a level that he inhabits, if not alone, then with very few others. His mind and his ability to put his thoughts onto paper is nothing short of amazing.	2001-07-20
1915033:US	53047425	R36ZIIT6ZZLQFF	0553108301	90950526	The End of War: A Novel of the Race for Berlin	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Work!	Mr. Robbins has once again written a great novel that while fictional is built around a core of History. I commented on historical fiction and its thresholds for accuracy when I posted my thoughts on his book, &quot;War Of The Rats&quot;, so I will not repeat it all here. As I have read a number of books on each of, \\"The Big Three\\", I know this book portrays the primary historical characters with absolute dead on accuracy. The Author knows the type of cigarettes Stalin dismantled to smoke in his Dunhill Pipe, and even more noteworthy he knows the nickname that Churchill's Family had given to the pocket watch he carried. The latter detail I have only come across when reading Sir Martin Gilbert's Official Biography Of Sir Winston Spencer Churchill.<br />The, &quot;Big Three&quot;, and Mr. Truman have to appear in any book about the closing events of World War II, however what I very much enjoyed were the people that did not replace the familiar leaders as much as they at times reflected their ideas in well conceived ways. The people, through whom we experience the final stages of World War II, range from a photographer for Life magazine who understands the importance of Berlin better than both General Eisenhower and a terminally ill Roosevelt. The President who's arrogance prevented him from including Truman, when he was as ill as he was, thus leaving Truman with virtually no knowledge handed down, or experience to equip him to deal with Stalin.<br />A Russian Soldier who leads us from Stalingrad to Berlin. He has been stripped of rank and is serving in a penal company, however he embodies the perfect infantryman that Stalin would have made divisions of had he the chance. When this same soldier reaches Berlin his Humanity is regained like his rank has risen, and were Stalin to know he would remove him from the living with the infamous checkmark.<br />A young German Woman, a classical musician enjoys the privileges her talents secure for her, and that keep some distance between her and the reality of Berlin. As the War comes to a close her world deteriorates until she is forced to live with her Mother, a woman who takes the most dangerous risk for reasons that are hers, and is rewarded with her Daughter's condemnation. Her cello ensures her a better albeit temporary security. For when Berlin falls she is there to be victimized at will. She fights to reconcile the opportunities her position presents for her, and the obligations she feels toward her Mother, as well as what the Nazis' have ingrained in her versus the reality of their crimes.<br />This is the second work by a very talented writer who to date has brought stories involving the Second World War. It will be interesting to see whether he continues with this genre, or directs a deftly held pen toward other events in History.<br />Reading time very well spent, recommended without condition.e between her and the reality of Berlin. As the War comes to a close her world deteriorates until she is forced to live with her Mother, a woman who takes the most dangerous risk for reasons that are hers, and is rewarded with her Daughter's condemnation. Her cello ensures her a better albeit temporary security. For when Berlin falls she is there to be victimized at will. She fights to reconcile the opportunities her position presents for her, and the obligations she feels toward her Mother, as well as what the Nazis' have ingrained in her versus the reality of their crimes.<br />This is the second work by a very talented writer who to date has brought stories involving the Second World War. It will be interesting to see whether he continues with this genre, or directs a deftly held pen toward other events in History.<br />Reading time very well spent, recommended without condition.	2001-07-18
1915263:US	53047425	R153DYDT46YB62	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Ambitious Writing	This is the first work by Mr. Neil Gaiman that I have read. From this point on he will be an Author that I will read when he again publishes, further I will backtrack to read his earlier work. The concept of, \\"American Gods\\", is incredibly sweeping in both breadth and depth, and had he chose, he could have used a few hundred more pages to tell his tale. I wish that he had, as there are so many religions and mythologies that participate, the book is a bit overwhelming.<br />When an Author creates a new world from whole cloth or conjures a variant on the world we know, the reader has to be given enough reference points and background to fully get immersed into his book. This is the only issue that I had with what is otherwise a thought-provoking, literate, and intelligently crafted book. It was mentioned that one reader used a book on mythology as a guide, and when I read this again I will use the same type of assist. There are literally dozens and dozens of, \\"Gods\\", that are a part of the action. A few will be familiar and understood, a few more will be recognized with some general knowledge, and others are totally unknown unless the reader has studied the fields the Author clearly studied himself. Even when some of the characters are thought to be familiar, they turn out to be infinitely more complex than the traditional view the reader probably has.<br />If the Author gave more background on his characters the book would have substantially increased in length. He is a skillful writer so I don't see why that would have been an issue. There are other young writers creating massive works of fiction, and they have demonstrated that it can be done without losing the urgency that keeps one up most of the night flipping pages.<br />As I said earlier this Author can create and execute on the page. Maybe I am in the minority when it comes to expansive knowledge of cultural lore. I do know that if I had the understanding or was given more information in the book, I would have gotten even more pleasure from what is already a great book.e gotten even more pleasure from what is already a great book.	2001-07-17
1916284:US	53047425	R3UOJ3N6QVPH1F	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	146	166	N	N	Control Alt Delete Restart	To the extent that a book can be described as original, \\"Snow Crash\\", by Neal Stephenson is deserving of the moniker. About the only common ground that his work shares with others is that ink is applied to paper using the same letters, and then pages are bound to create a book. Much beyond that and you are in the midst of this Author's view of a given world he has modified and created. He is not only incredibly unique; his wit passes the cutting edge to the bleeding edge of razor sharp sarcasm, and irony. And when he uses words he assembles them in arrangements you have never listened to before. An important aspect that sets his work apart in this genre is that while delivering enormous amounts of information, he keeps the reader informed, he does not lose you, he ensures you stay with his wickedly fast pace by keeping you educated. Other Authors of Science Fiction are weak on this point, and it weakens their books.<br />One date to remember when reading this work is that it was first released in June of 1992 after three years in the making. This is critical, as so much of what was absolute fiction then, may now be found within the pages of Wired Magazine. There are even words he originated that are common to most people who use a computer, especially if you have ever tried what he calls the Metaverse, touring it as an Avatar.<br />One of the reasons his work is so authentic and exceptionally good is that he knows his material. If he talks about code he's qualified, as he has written it. When he is speaking of Sumerian Mythology an Author who spent years researching his material is again relating it. And when he just lets go with dialogue or descriptive prose it is mind binding for being clever, unique, and hilarious. He also has raised sardonic prose to an art form. If he were any less a craftsman, a main character named Hiro Protagonist that at one point delivers pizza for Uncle Enzo's Cosa Nostra Pizzeria, would be moronic.<br />Technology, a version of what today's society might look like one day, viruses that share traits whether attacking a human or a silicon life form, the origins of language based on Biblical text, it just never stops. He is an extraordinary artist who chooses to express his art through words. It is a unique ride if you have yet to take it, and one that you will never forget.y's society might look like one day, viruses that share traits whether attacking a human or a silicon life form, the origins of language based on Biblical text, it just never stops. He is an extraordinary artist who chooses to express his art through words. It is a unique ride if you have yet to take it, and one that you will never forget.	2001-07-17
1920496:US	53047425	RAZM0YMRBJDLP	0375505814	862963413	An Album of Memories: Personal Histories from the Greatest Generation	Books	5	27	27	N	N	characteristically modest and yet quietly proud	I started reading this volume, which makes a trilogy of Mr. Brokaw's work on this generation of Americans, shortly after reading the latest update on the World War II Memorial in Washington D.C. I continue to be incensed over the fact that 56 years have passed since the war ended and there are groups who continue to attempt to stop the construction of this monument. Elsewhere I have read that we lose almost 4,000 veterans of this generation every month. The youngest are in their seventies. Who will be left when this colossal bureaucratic snafu is finally put to rest and all legal challenges cease? The Korean Memorial finally was built, and their Memorial honors the Veterans of Viet Nam. It's reprehensible that this monument has not been completed decades ago.<br />There have been only 3 reviews of this work and yet it resides on the top of the best-selling books in the nation. I wonder why the comments have to date been so few? Perhaps people believe they have said all they can say to thank Mr. Brokaw and his team that produced these books, and the generation that has been the topic. If that is the case, say again what you have said in the past, for these men and woman can never be thanked enough.<br />In many ways this is my favorite of the three books as the voices and stories come from an incredible range of people. A man from Germany who was a child in The Hitler Youth writes of his experiences with Americans. A Viet Nam Veteran writes with awe towards the commitment the participants of WWII made. And there are even letters that bring attention to men and woman who served in areas that did not receive the attention they were due by History or the books that have documented the war.<br />Please read of a Family who, \\"adopted\\", an American who was killed, created a memorial for him, and to this day are in touch with his Family. Listen to a conversation between two men who are veterans of the war, one from the USA and one from France. See if you can read it through without a tear.<br />There is no end to the thanks we owe to all Veterans of the wars this country fought. None of us today would have what we enjoy without their service. The world is far from perfect, black pilots and nurses fought for a country that segregated them as they fought the same war. Today racism is certainly not gone from this country, and that illuminates the importance of those who fought before they left, during the war, and when they came home. How can you possibly find superlatives appropriate to these people?<br />Mr. Brokaw and his team and all those veterans/families, that contributed to his books have raised the awareness of ideals that too often have to be sought out from obscurity from the, \\"ME\\", generations of today.<br />This trilogy is as important a literary work as has been written, and it deserves to be recognized as such. For such recognition not only honors those that created the work, but even more importantly it honors those that are the subjects of these books.<br />Thank you to Mr. Brokaw, my Father who enlisted on his 17th birthday, and all veterans wherever they are serving, or may have served.without a tear.<br />There is no end to the thanks we owe to all Veterans of the wars this country fought. None of us today would have what we enjoy without their service. The world is far from perfect, black pilots and nurses fought for a country that segregated them as they fought the same war. Today racism is certainly not gone from this country, and that illuminates the importance of those who fought before they left, during the war, and when they came home. How can you possibly find superlatives appropriate to these people?<br />Mr. Brokaw and his team and all those veterans/families, that contributed to his books have raised the awareness of ideals that too often have to be sought out from obscurity from the, \\"ME\\", generations of today.<br />This trilogy is as important a literary work as has been written, and it deserves to be recognized as such. For such recognition not only honors those that created the work, but even more importantly it honors those that are the subjects of these books.<br />Thank you to Mr. Brokaw, my Father who enlisted on his 17th birthday, and all veterans wherever they are serving, or may have served.	2001-07-13
1922584:US	53047425	R12O502S50V8HA	0802733573	376154080	Ex-Libris: A Novel	Books	4	47	51	N	N	Mentis Gratissimus Error	\\"A most delightful hallucination\\", is the title of these comments in a more customary form. It is a phrase that was used in Mr. Ross King's book, \\"Ex Libris\\", and I thought it is an appropriate term for the suspension of disbelief that all good novels must accomplish. This is a mystery in which books play a prominent role. The detail that is related is vast so I can understand why some might find the enormous number of descriptions tedious. I am an absolute book addict, so I enjoyed the history of how the paper was made, the words created and concealed, and the manufacture and repair of what are now very old books, or manuscripts that predate books by many centuries.<br />The book is very well written and features an unassuming bookseller as the protagonist who owns a shop and lives on London Bridge in the 17th Century. His cloistered world is shattered one day, and from that moment until the book ends, readers follow him along on a complicated mission to solve a mystery. To make matters more complex, there is a second background story taking place many years in the past that helps with the exposition of what our bookseller is dealing with. The players are legion and a very good memory is required to follow the tale. A pad of paper and a pen helps to track the important pieces. As many of these pieces are rare editions of old books and book fragments, it could make anyone a bit dizzy while keeping all in order. As I said, for me it was great fun, but I can see why others would be frustrated if they were expecting a more straightforward tale.<br />The book jacket suggests a few Authors whose work is comparable to that of Mr. King's. One I agree with and one I do not, but I do feel a third is even more appropriate. Mr. Charles Palliser writes very intricate tales in historic periods that are a maze to follow as well as a book to read. I truly think most will find this a wonderful book and reading time very well spent.	2001-07-12
1927339:US	53047425	R22KFBK0WE541G	0345430697	470618518	Workin' on the Chain Gang: Shaking Off the Dead Hand of History (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The Issues Remain And That Is Sad	What is even worse is that we must be reminded of these social issues that have become ingrained in this Country's psyche. This essay by Mr. Walter Mosley is not a one-dimensional discussion on race; rather it encompasses all of the citizens of our Country and what we accept actively or passively.<br />He touches on several topics in this brief work ranging from the selective history we continue to believe and teach, to obsessions with the absurd and worthless that consumes billions of dollars. He specifically cited the time and money spent on the coverage of O.J. Simpson, and Monica Lewinsky as examples. He challenges readers to turn off the television for three weeks to live outside of the sitcom, arena sports, and the for profit network news. Why? So that people have the time to think about what is truly important to them, and for many to realize the system that they are a part of has little concern for them, ever.<br />He also touched on privatized for profit prisons. This should not be a cause for debate for anyone who thinks about the topic for a moment. What decisions have been made when a prison needs to be profitable? What does a prison become when it is a business like any other that must have a positive bottom line from its operations? What incentive is there to minimize incarceration and its causes when those that are imprisoned have become a source of profit?<br />And then there is the apathy that is the cause of a minority of eligible voters that bother to vote. Less than half of those who can, choose from two candidates from the same parties election after election. These candidates resemble about 5% of the Country they wish to lead. They are wealthy, well educated, white, male, and have the ability to raise tens of millions of dollars in their pursuit of power. As this last Presidential Election showed, neither candidate could have cared less what was required of them to gain the office they sought for themselves. Winning was never about those voters they say they want to represent, just the fulfillment of their own selfish wishes. We heard that every vote should count, and then both candidates wanted to specify which were to be counted. One candidate who wished to be Commander in Chief thought nothing of trying to and successfully eliminating the votes of actively serving members of the armed forces.<br />None of these issues are new and that is what should concern all of us. This Country continues to be polarized by essentially two groups, possible three with the advent of almost 300 multi billionaires in the United States. There is nothing wrong with the creation of wealth, what matters is how it is made and how it is used when in the control of one individual. The irony of one of the super rich is that while at the same time accumulating wealth by means that allegedly were illegal, the same person has personally funded the largest charitable foundation on the planet.<br />Nothing new, no easy answers, but they must be addressed.they say they want to represent, just the fulfillment of their own selfish wishes. We heard that every vote should count, and then both candidates wanted to specify which were to be counted. One candidate who wished to be Commander in Chief thought nothing of trying to and successfully eliminating the votes of actively serving members of the armed forces.<br />None of these issues are new and that is what should concern all of us. This Country continues to be polarized by essentially two groups, possible three with the advent of almost 300 multi billionaires in the United States. There is nothing wrong with the creation of wealth, what matters is how it is made and how it is used when in the control of one individual. The irony of one of the super rich is that while at the same time accumulating wealth by means that allegedly were illegal, the same person has personally funded the largest charitable foundation on the planet.<br />Nothing new, no easy answers, but they must be addressed.	2001-07-09
1933866:US	53047425	RY5CDWF151Q6R	0743202767	216584809	Half-Moon and Empty Stars (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Consequences Of The Law Presented By A Legendary Attorney	Most novels about The Law and the courts within which the stories unfold are as complete and realistic as their vacuous television counterparts. The crime is committed, the trial is held, and justice is done in 60 minutes minus the obligatory commercial refuse. And if this alone is not absurd enough there is always some contrived trick or last minute bit of information that either seals the doom or grants the freedom of the defendant. The book versions are almost universally as bad although they cost the reader more in money and time. The credentials of those who write these books that are consumed by the millions are about equal with the mediocre product they write. These are mass produced production line tales written to be everything from a novel, to a television adaptation, to a feature length movie. Since they strive to be many things they result in being nothing.<br />Mr. Gerry Spence has the credentials to speak about the law and how it unfolds in a courtroom. Unlike others who write in this genre, he has spent his life in courtrooms while some pretenders have never seen the inside of one. \\"Half-Moon And Empty Stars\\", is not just about a trial. Mr. Spence brings the reader along to experience all that a trial can mean to those involved, and the reality is most of these events take place outside the courtroom. The pain the victims feel is felt most painfully when spoken of at the kitchen table. It is the sight of a Mother spending years to gain signatures for her Son's pardon. It is reading of the young son of the accused as he learns to cope with the taunting and cruelty in his first years of school. It is the destruction of families and friends who spend years trying only to correct a wrong and prevent a racist, selfish, political, \\"Justice\\", from carrying out its final affront to a community, to a people, and to itself.<br />Mr. Gerry Spence has written widely in his works of non-fiction of his experiences and his opinions of how our legal system works and about those entrusted to see the law is practiced with fairness and equality. Our legal system is far from the utopian version that some may believe it to be. Your wealth will alter how the law treats you. How much of your wealth is spent on those who hold office or sit in judgment will alter the law's view of you. Fame can greatly diminish the punishment of a guilty party, or in a recent trial where a double murder was committed; in one courtroom the law can find you not guilty of the crime and then find you responsible for the same deaths in a different room. One depraved common factor is that the accused walks out of both courtrooms free. However as he said in another of his writings, \\"we must celebrate the verdict\\". We may not like or agree with the outcome, however this system works and is beyond value even as it is far from perfect.<br />This story deals with events that contribute to the main trial and its aftermath over decades, not hours or days. It deals with the political nature of our legal system, how it is manipulated, and how authority and power can erase the humanity of any person. This is not a cynical book, it is one view of the law from a man who has spent his life defending those who the law either seeks to punish, or to be sure that the money and the influence that can be bought become worthless when the truth manages to maintain prominence.<br />There is nothing subtle about Mr. Spence he does not mince words. He is a man of many gifts not the least of which is integrity. He is a classic American Legend who is true to the independence this Nation is supposed to represent. He doesn't dress like most lawyers, and does not use smoke mirrors and fantasies to wins his cases. He is an original.<br />There is a question posed at the end of this book and the answer Mr. Spence is yes. Yes you are a novelist, a tremendous storyteller and gifted teacher.about those entrusted to see the law is practiced with fairness and equality. Our legal system is far from the utopian version that some may believe it to be. Your wealth will alter how the law treats you. How much of your wealth is spent on those who hold office or sit in judgment will alter the law's view of you. Fame can greatly diminish the punishment of a guilty party, or in a recent trial where a double murder was committed; in one courtroom the law can find you not guilty of the crime and then find you responsible for the same deaths in a different room. One depraved common factor is that the accused walks out of both courtrooms free. However as he said in another of his writings, \\"we must celebrate the verdict\\". We may not like or agree with the outcome, however this system works and is beyond value even as it is far from perfect.<br />This story deals with events that contribute to the main trial and its aftermath over decades, not hours or days. It deals with the political nature of our legal system, how it is manipulated, and how authority and power can erase the humanity of any person. This is not a cynical book, it is one view of the law from a man who has spent his life defending those who the law either seeks to punish, or to be sure that the money and the influence that can be bought become worthless when the truth manages to maintain prominence.<br />There is nothing subtle about Mr. Spence he does not mince words. He is a man of many gifts not the least of which is integrity. He is a classic American Legend who is true to the independence this Nation is supposed to represent. He doesn't dress like most lawyers, and does not use smoke mirrors and fantasies to wins his cases. He is an original.<br />There is a question posed at the end of this book and the answer Mr. Spence is yes. Yes you are a novelist, a tremendous storyteller and gifted teacher.	2001-07-04
1936248:US	53047425	R1NNUB423WCX86	0553108174	298857171	War Of The Rats	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Very Good	I enjoy Historical Fiction and David L.Robbins is very good at crafting a tale around History's Events. In, &quot;War Of The Rats&quot;, he recounts the, &quot;Duel&quot;, between Russia's Chief Master Sergeant Vasily Zaitsev, and Germany's Colonel Heinz Thornvold, as they played out their sniper's match and starred in the propaganda battles their countries staged, all in the wreckage of Stalingrad. I also enjoyed the alternative view of war that the Author related. The tens of thousands do not fight this particular violence of war, nor do the millions engage in it. These are very personal acts of killing. While it is one individual with a single rifle, the area that can be controlled through the terror their unique talents allow is an amazing study in Human endurance.<br />Historical Fiction can be tricky as it is hard to set rules for how closely the Author must follow the facts as he or she knows them. There is no excuse for knowingly writing a story that is error prone and excuse it as fiction, and then call it History when it is easily documented. I do not believe the Author is guilty of this. I do think that any attempt to document all facts surrounding the exploits of a Soviet War Hero as chronicled by their Wartime propaganda mentality is virtually impossible. This is the same military mindset that had the submarine Kurst hitting a 50 year old floating mine, and had those on board alive for days when in fact they had died horrible deaths. This latter event was in peacetime, and still pride required lies that were absurd. During a war, facts often are changed, minimilized or embellished. The management of facts is a major part of any war effort.<br />If you really want to see a distorted view of these events, see the movie, &quot;The Enemy At The Gates&quot;, they got the location correct, beyond that is was marginal to wretched. The story that actually occurred in Stalingrad had the entire dynamic any good movie needs. Studios are so clich&eacute; in their portrayals of certain groups that the truth is never bad enough it always must be embellished.<br />Single individuals can have a great effect during a given event or events. What I found fascinating is the degree to which great snipers can control large critical areas of the battlefield not only by their ability to hit a target from astounding distances, but by the fear alone that they cast over an area before a shot is fired. Once their presence is established they can paralyze a large field of conflict with only one man or woman and one rifle.<br />In the end I don't know how many errors the Author made, and if he made any how important they were. I can say if you enjoy historical fiction, or choose to take the entire work as a novel, you will enjoy the time you spend with this man's work.als of certain groups that the truth is never bad enough it always must be embellished.<br />Single individuals can have a great effect during a given event or events. What I found fascinating is the degree to which great snipers can control large critical areas of the battlefield not only by their ability to hit a target from astounding distances, but by the fear alone that they cast over an area before a shot is fired. Once their presence is established they can paralyze a large field of conflict with only one man or woman and one rifle.<br />In the end I don't know how many errors the Author made, and if he made any how important they were. I can say if you enjoy historical fiction, or choose to take the entire work as a novel, you will enjoy the time you spend with this man's work.	2001-07-02
1937433:US	53047425	R11HRHUVGPFAZP	0385333005	230034308	Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain	Books	3	4	5	N	N	In Pieces Like The Tupperwares Contents	Michael Paterniti has written an entertaining cross-country trip that includes an eccentric who uses Tupperware in ways the manufacturer never imagined. And like the remnants of the objects it contains, there are a variety of pieces; the book too has pieces, good and parts that are something less.<br />The story is so bizarre there are times I wondered if the writer had drifted off the narrow path of non-fiction. I do not suggest any deception; rather some of his experiences make the brain in the trunk appear rather normal. His trip to Japan to visit the grandmaster of Einstein collectables is surreal, and the visit with the Beverly Hills attorney reads like an event that only Quentin Tarantino would conjure. If this becomes a movie I cannot think of another director that could bring this road trip to the screen.<br />The Doctor who absconded with the brain barely rises above boring, had he not kept the brain and kept his Medical License he may have had a more interesting life. The Author did a good job with what is undeniably a quirky topic, however he is also responsible for keeping the book from delivering the full potential the story offered. The Author repeatedly interrupts his narrative with his attempts to philosophize situations and locations he finds himself in as if he is chatting on a level with the brain's former owner. He is good, but not that good. Hr drones on about what a cloned Einstein would feel about being born and already having a FBI file. Cloning, unless it has changed, reproduces the physical not the mental. His scenario would be the exception to the rule; if it looks like Einstein, and walks like Einstein, in this case, it isn't Einstein. Cloning gets you the box, software not included.<br />The tale hits its low when visiting Los Alamos. The Author is certainly entitled to his opinions of History however mistaken and vague his facts may be. Mr. Paterniti might likely have approved the first draft of the original Enola Gay Display at The Smithsonian were he given the chance. World Wars cannot be summed up with isolated statistics, and cocktail party levels of knowledge.<br />I would like to have read this story rendered by a writer with a wicked wit and an ability not to drift into self-important rants on nothing. If this book confined itself to the essential event of driving the brain of Einstein across the Country, albeit with an eccentric/dysfunctional Doctor, the book could have been extraordinarily entertaining. As it is the level that is reached is at times amusing, but little else.thsonian were he given the chance. World Wars cannot be summed up with isolated statistics, and cocktail party levels of knowledge.<br />I would like to have read this story rendered by a writer with a wicked wit and an ability not to drift into self-important rants on nothing. If this book confined itself to the essential event of driving the brain of Einstein across the Country, albeit with an eccentric/dysfunctional Doctor, the book could have been extraordinarily entertaining. As it is the level that is reached is at times amusing, but little else.	2001-07-01
1940190:US	53047425	R1U5UNEZYUQJSG	0679436154	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I Finished It And Was Surprised I Did	This book and my comments may be a bit contradictory, however this book was strange as well. The novel had portions that were extremely clever, the majority of the work was well written, however taken in its entirety was pretty bland. There was enough to keep me reading but when finished I wished I had read something else. There were just enough interesting bits to string together the weaker portions, and that is what kept me plodding forward.<br />I enjoyed the methods the Author employed to show the absurd results that come from the ability to communicate faster, and the exponentially expanding ability we have to create more information. We generate more answers, which increases the time to arrive at a result and delays conclusions, however if the pace is rapid enough and the data that is moved is massive enough, those involved feel it's justified. What it truly is, is absurd. The writer chose the practice of cutting edge medical diagnostics to take the idea of gathering information for its own sake to the ridiculous extreme. While in this book we never learn the fate of the primary character, the idea is implied that while the patient is waiting for the latest results from Star Wars technology, when they finally arrive the patient will be dead.<br />I also enjoyed the implication that the more amazing the technology becomes, the more dependent its users are with the result their competence decreases, and their willingness to make a decision ends in paralysis. If a machine cannot give an answer then the answer does not exist. Specialists carry their own databases, and if there is no match, they exit with dispatch.<br />I did not like the characters in this novel, as most were too pathetic. Even the character that should easily cultivate our sympathy is difficult to care for, as he is already a mess prior to encountering his true challenge. I also felt the link between the effects of drinking Hemlock for Socrates, as a counterpoint to Bill's illness was a stretch that did not work. Trying to rationalize a link between the sons through a similar method lacked any credibility.<br />Some parts were good, but the premise being explored was a variation on a theme and not a new one. That perhaps is what kept this from being a terrific story.hat did not work. Trying to rationalize a link between the sons through a similar method lacked any credibility.<br />Some parts were good, but the premise being explored was a variation on a theme and not a new one. That perhaps is what kept this from being a terrific story.	2001-06-29
1943916:US	53047425	RXCHTHIPSWN9O	0965319911	658526656	Snow in the Kingdom: My Storm Years on Everest	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Chomolungma /Everest Are The Same The 1st  Is A Mindset Too	\\"The Goddess Mother of the World\\", This original local name for Mt. Everest should be placed at the center of the experience in order to safely spend time on the flanks of this great mountain. Those who adopt the name Chomolungma also adopt and respect the History, Cultures, and Religions that are an integral part of their journey to these rarified heights. These mountaineers challenge themselves and place their lives in the hands of fate and those they climb with, and in turn accept responsibility for the safety of their team members.<br /><br />American Mountaneer Ed Webster and the men and woman like him climb neither for profit nor pay, and while they accept the danger that is inherent in what they pursue, they always work to minimize the risk. These climbers do not involve themselves with stunts, nor do they bring people to this mountain that have no business being there. They know when to turn back and live to climb again, and while they may not always be perfect, the!ir mistakes are those of competent climbers, not thrill seekers with a checkbook.<br /><br />So I would suggest this is NOT an Everest book, as it does not chronicle circumstances that lead to the deaths of those who should not be there, were maimed, and died there. Even more distasteful are those books that state as fact brutal criticisms that are not always true, are cruel, and often are the memories of malfunctioning oxygen deprived minds. Ed Webster and his fellow climbers do speak of each being responsible for their own well-being, however their actions on the mountain preclude any possibility of leaving someone to die.<br /><br />Some of the most renowned Himalayan climbing legends from Sir Edmund Hillary, Reinhold Messner, David Breashears, Chris Bonington, and many others have endorsed this book. Ed Webster and his teammates are considered by these same men to have climbed in a manner that deserves a place with the greatest ascents of Mt. Everest starting with George Mallory a!nd Sandy Irvine.<br /><br />This 12-year effort of Webster's to write Snow in the Kingdom has produced far more than a book about climbing. It is an autobiography, a biography of others who climbed, a history of Chomolungma, a cultural documentation of very special people, and also of the evils of others who sought to destroy architecture dating to the 13th and 14th Centuries. Mr. Webster experienced the burden and absurdities that are the Chinese who while destroying Tibet were liberating it for reasons no philosophy can explain.<br /><br />He tells these stories with beautiful, painfully personal and honest prose. He brings us the majesty of the mountain with 150 pages of color photographs, and 282 in black and white. mtnimagery.com provides even more spectacular photographs. He also brings you the people he met, the old, the children, and the world they inhabit. With never before published images he will take you along with Mallory and Irvine, what they saw you will see. He will sh!ow you Chomolungma as Mallory saw it from the ground, and how the Space Shuttle viewed the mountain from space. I would imagine the only details that are missing would require a trip to Everest herself.<br /><br />The Author has opened his heart to readers. He shares a story at the book's beginning that almost stopped his climbing before he ever accomplished what this book records. He shares a climb when the woman he loved fell, and the hours he held her until she died. If you don't feel tears, or emotion rising from your gut as you read of this tragedy, you may be missing some painful but worthwhile emotions. He continued to climb with her always in his thoughts, carrying a scarf or other tangible memory of her. I would imagine that when he faced overwhelming exhaustion where death is not only apparent it seems to be preferred by the hypoxic mind, she helped him get up and climb down.<br /><br />It is easy to question or reject as reckless these people that go where no one has gone b!efore, whoknow that any number of nature's whims could strike him or her down. After all the reading I have done, and the correspondence I have been privileged to have, I have my own opinion.<br /><br />These are the personalities that push to climb higher, dive deeper, fly faster or farther than those who have gone before them. That they gain satisfaction and take pride in what they have done is integral to the privilege they feel for having had the opportunity to try. The true climbers do not always measure their success by whether they made the summit or turned around 300 feet from the top, to continue to live, endanger no one else, and to try again.<br /><br />The book is a remarkable achievement from its construction to the wisdom it contains. I would hope it becomes reading for all those who consider the challenge and will reflect on whether or not they belong there, whether wives, husbands and children should be left for months while they pursue a climb.<br /><br />It is a book I !can recommend without any qualification, a reading experience that will educate and enlighten all who read it, be they amongst those who decide to climb, or for those of us who stay closer to sea-level<br /><br />Magnificent!re's whims could strike him or her down. After all the reading I have done, and the correspondence I have been privileged to have, I have my own opinion.<br><br>These are the personalities that push to climb higher, dive deeper, fly faster or farther than those who have gone before them. That they gain satisfaction and take pride in what they have done is integral to the privilege they feel for having had the opportunity to try. The true climbers do not always measure their success by whether they made the summit or turned around 300 feet from the top, to continue to live, endanger no one else, and to try again.<br><br>The book is a remarkable achievement from its construction to the wisdom it contains. I would hope it becomes reading for all those who consider the challenge and will reflect on whether or not they belong there, whether wives, husbands and children should be left for months while they pursue a climb.<br><br>It is a book I !can recommend without any qualification, a reading experience that will educate and enlighten all who read it, be they amongst those who decide to climb, or for those of us who stay closer to sea-level<br><br>Magnificent!	2001-06-26
1944753:US	53047425	R23SG892W4PNCY	0151006431	510121269	Elvis in the Morning	Books	5	5	9	N	N	I Am Still Trying	However I cannot manage it.<br />Mr. William F. Buckley touring Graceland, the same man who performed Bach on Harpsichord with the Phoenix Orchestra, if memory serves correctly. This Founding Father of Conservatism eviscerating Yale on God while others were condemning the King from their pulpits, while Network television would only broadcast Elvis from the waistline up. This man of letters, advisor to Presidents, a man who deserves the descriptive, \\"Renaissance Man\\", if any person does, has now given readers this?<br />\\"Elvis In The Morning\\", is about as far from his previous works of fiction as he is right of center. I required no dictionary at hand when reading this novel, which was also a first. I did have to wait to comment on the book as I was unsure what might have moved him to write on many topics with such gentleness that he normally would comment on with a smile while feeding them through a wood chipper. However such thoughts are unfounded, for just as he can eloquently defend either side of a debate after the, \\"resolved\\", has been stated, there are many ways to comment on a topic. The methods may differ the results are the same.<br />Socialism is practiced here by an adolescent who employs the equitable distribution of wealth by attempting to abscond with records of the King and distribute the vinyl to those who are bereft of it. The student activism of the 1960's is demonstrated/dismissed?, with the most inept display of public disobedience of the decade. This is the first collegiate experience that is wasted, prior to a second being completed before again being destroyed by another sickness the 1960's are famous for.<br />The King died at 42 with the help of a, \\"Dr. Feel Good\\", a man who dispensed drugs by the pound, however this was OK with the King as they were given by a, \\"Dr.\\" No drug addict he, for his were prescription meds not the illicit variety.<br />The one photograph in the book may be the ultimate comment by Mr. Buckley, however I really don't know. If there is a picture that presents more irony, hypocrisy, and whose subjects were infatuated with power that destroyed them utterly, I have not viewed it.<br />I look forward to what others may say, for this is as enigmatic a book as Mr. Buckley has written.t know. If there is a picture that presents more irony, hypocrisy, and whose subjects were infatuated with power that destroyed them utterly, I have not viewed it.<br />I look forward to what others may say, for this is as enigmatic a book as Mr. Buckley has written.	2001-06-25
1944756:US	53047425	RXIHA5V4SJR1N	0966446119	559842338	The Essays of Warren Buffett : Lessons for Corporate America	Books	5	57	67	N	N	In This Instance Familiarity Does Not Breed Contempt	It is certainly true that Mr. Warren Buffet is nothing if not consistent. On June 29, Forbes Magazine will release their latest compilation of the wealthiest people in the world. There are 538 on the list, 269 from America, 56 that disappeared from last year, and many that while still present, have seen their billions cut in half or even a third of what they once enjoyed. Even the wealthiest individual, Mr. Gates, while maintaining his position at number one saw his assets decline. Guess who has billions more than last year? Warren Buffet!<br />I always enjoy watching those that enjoy being critical of Mr. Buffet. Their charges are absurd, ranging from he never changes his methods, or he did not buy into the technology sector. The year 2000 will be remembered for many things but the amount of money lost in the tech sector will always remain the stuff of which legend is made.<br />Mr. Buffet did in fact embrace technology as he saw fit, and last year the stock of his company went up by 14.4%. That is a number shared by other companies, however it is closer to what they are worth today as compared to one year ago if they are still alive and limping. We have embraced the 21st century by entering such cutting-edge industries as brick, carpet, insulation and paint, Buffett told his Berkshire Hathaway shareholders this year. &quot;Try to control your excitement.&quot; More exciting is the holding's company's stock price in the last year, up 14.4%. Stings a bit to the nay Sayers I would think.<br />The real treat for investors is that Mr. Lawrence A. Cunningham has earned the respect of Mr. Buffet and Mr. Munger unlike others who report from afar. In this his, \\"First Revised Edition\\", Mr. Cunningham has expanded the text by over 10%, and added items like a, \\"Disposition Table\\", that are instructive to maximizing the value of what he presents.<br />The comments I made on the first version need to be revised as follows. One share of Berkshire \\"A\\" stock is not $59,900.00; you missed that bargain, Now it will cost you $67,000.00. Up $2,250.00 this past Friday when the markets were soft to say the least. And that bargain \\"B\\" Berkshire? Well last time $1,966.00 would have done it, $2,235 will be required now, and it too rose $84.00 this past Friday.<br />I cannot imagine that Mr. Warren Buffet is not on any investor's top 5 list of the greatest investors since there were markets in this Country. I would also suggest that a dispassionate appraisal of his performance argues quite eloquently that he is the best to have ever amassed his fortune, and that of his shareholders on Wall Street.  Thanks to the efforts of Mr. Lawrence A. Cunningham readers have access to essays that previously were available primarily to shareholders, and which are organized in this book thematically for the second time. Annual reports are generally easy to come by, however as I wrote on August 3, 2000, 1 Share Of Berkshire Hathaway &quot;A&quot; required $59,900.00, and the &quot;Baby Berkshires&quot; $1,966.00 per share. Many are quick to respond the price is so high as Mr. Buffet has not split the stock, ever. But what is more important is why he has never done this. This book explains his theory on this matter, and dozens of others.  Mr. Buffet has his critics, they range from the idiotic, &quot;he's lucky&quot;, to &quot;his success allows him to make attractive deals&quot;, and to those who feel he missed the money that was made in tech stocks. As for the luck theory, who else has earned 23.8% compounded annually for over 25 years? Winning the lottery is probably more likely an event. As to the attractive deals his wealth is said to facilitate, I guess the answer is, is the questioner serious? He made what he has, his reputation allowed him to have the Federal Government allow Solomon Brothers to continue participating in the bond market based on one thing, his word! This is a man who has rescinded very successful trades because news arrived within days of hisbuying/selling that could have given the appearance of his having had information others were not privy to.  This book has more useful information and ideas that have been proven over decades than any 10 hot Business Books of the moment. Mr. Buffet has had off years, but he has never gone bust.  One of my favorite stories is when he was hanging out with friends as a kid, his pals were collecting bottles for the deposit. He was collecting bottle caps, sorting them, and determining who was drinking what brand! He clearly was put amongst us for a reason.  On a time invested basis there is no better or more rewarding reading than these essays. No one can match what he has accomplished, why would someone not wish to hear what he has to say on dozens of topics?<br />Thank you Mr. Cunningham for gaining this man's trust.s buying/selling that could have given the appearance of his having had information others were not privy to.   This book has more useful information and ideas that have been proven over decades than any 10 hot Business Books of the moment. Mr. Buffet has had off years, but he has never gone bust.   One of my favorite stories is when he was hanging out with friends as a kid, his pals were collecting bottles for the deposit. He was collecting bottle caps, sorting them, and determining who was drinking what brand! He clearly was put amongst us for a reason.  On a time invested basis there is no better or more rewarding reading than these essays. No one can match what he has accomplished, why would someone not wish to hear what he has to say on dozens of topics?<br />Thank you Mr. Cunningham for gaining this man's trust.	2001-06-25
1946442:US	53047425	R39EEEDJH58ZAO	0743201965	718662431	Bone House	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Elegant Debut	Ms. Betsy Tobin has delivered a subtle, elegant, and sometimes startling view of 17th Century Elizabethan England. From the portrait by Godfried Schalken (1643-1706) that ornaments the book's jacket, the writer has placed her tale with authenticity and historical detail that raises the book above just another novel. Ms. Tobin does not give her readers headlines from History to quickly establish for all the time period she sets her story in. Rather she brings the small details of daily life and language that establishes her as an Author who is meticulous with her research, and who respects her readers. She demonstrates that fiction need not be bereft of educational detail.<br />It would be interesting to know the story behind the painting on the cover. For any who enjoyed Ms. Tracy Chevalier's, &quot;The Girl With The Pearl Earring\\", the woman on the cover gazing over her left shoulder with a tear shaped pearl earring will appear remarkably familiar. While not the same girl, or the same artist, the picture is appropriate once the story is engaged.<br />I want to qualify the use of the word startling. One of the primary characters is a mid-wife who during the tale delivers children and relates stories of other births. The birth of a child is many things, that anyone would find the descriptions in this book distasteful is absurd and infantile. To expect that a difficult delivery in the 17th Century would be any more pleasant than today is also an expression of ignorance. To be fair, if detailed descriptions of surgery bother you, there are passages in the book they may make you wince. There are not in any manner inappropriate, nor are they some slovenly device to shock or appeal to the prurient.<br />The only reason for the lack of a fifth star is that I would imagine that as a writer this Author will write even more engaging books. However if she stopped at one, she has still made a worthy addition to good literature.	2001-06-24
1946493:US	53047425	R9YKZK7LE44LC	080524185X	282435277	The Funeral Party	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Death And Mourning Russian Style	Ludmila Ulitskaya has written an insightful novel on human behavior, and an amusing tale as well. The title put me in mind of what many would first think of when it came to an Irish Wake. However these &eacute;migr&eacute;s from Russia begin their reminiscing, their grieving, and their personal battles well before the death of the man who is the center of their attention.<br />Ms. Ulitskaya brings a wide range of characters to her tale, from a young girl who seems almost selectively Autistic, to the dying subject who has lead the life of a Greenwich Village Don Juan, to the woman who adore him and revile their challengers for his affection. If this is not enough the poor invalid is hounded to become a Christian, however he also wishes to see a Rabbi, and thus the Author begins a conflict between religious positions that are represented by men who will never agree and will eventually be usurped in their function. Their final comedy takes place graveside when competing methods for the burial of the dead ring the grave for prominence of voice and position.<br />The Author spent time on a subject that I wish occupied more of her writing. She explored the need of &eacute;migr&eacute;s to constantly seek affirmation that their Mother Country that they left behind was indeed not worthy of their citizenship. They must constantly reassure each other and themselves, with current events in Moscow is possible, that they indeed did not run away but moved on to a better life.<br />The book is well written although there appear to be either some awkward translation or outright errors with a word on occasion. This is not truly detrimental to the story, however it does interrupt the cadence of the tale when a jarring word that clearly has no place makes an appearance.<br />Well worth the allocation of some of your reading time.	2001-06-24
1947093:US	53047425	R3NIZD9SQC7WMV	0786708050	628671303	Driving Lessons	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Three And One Half Stars	Ed McBain has been described by one jacket endorsement as being so good he should be arrested. &quot;Driving Lessons&quot; is a novella and the first of his work that I have read. It is very well done, and demonstrates the man's ability to entertain with a mystery in a very brief period of time. It also is a guaranteed catalyst to continuing with the massive body of work that he has produced.<br />The description on the jacket will lead many to divine the outcome of the story and the guilty party. I would wager that many of those that would hazard a guess would be disappointed when they find they are wrong. This was the intriguing bit the writer created, he offers 72 brief pages, a description that seemingly tells the entire story, but in fact does not. It is akin to a novella of misdirection, he knows that most will look to what they believe to be the obvious, only to believe that which he wanted them to place their faith in.<br />Mr. McBain also does a great job of bringing the personalities of the main players into very sharp relief not only for a novella length book, but also for a novel that most Authors would require hundreds of pages to create legitimate characters that you feel familiar with. This is the reading equivalent of speed chess, when not given the normal length of time brilliant moves often arise.	2001-06-24
1947095:US	53047425	R3Q8S7Y6TDNFB	0312278381	26307489	The Wooden Leg of Inspector Anders	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Enticing Debut From Down Under	For any who enjoy great writing of any genre there is a new Author that is deserving of your attention and praise. Marshall Browne has made his debut with, &quot;The Wooden Leg Of Inspector Anders&quot;. And Happily like Michael Dibdin and his, &quot;Aurelio Zen&quot; series, Mr. Browne has already begun on a second installment of his Italian inspector.<br />As I read his book Michael Browne reminded me of Michael Dibdin, John Le Carre, and the Author of, \\"A Small Death In Lisbon\\", Robert Wilson. Mr. Browne is an elegant and articulate writer. He writes at a contemplative cadence and avoids all manner of clich&eacute;. The latter is no small achievement as this is a story about the Mafia, and many great writers have tried their hand with this topic.<br />His writing pays attention to detail of the important sort, the ingredients of a certain native dish, rather than running on for pages with car chases, bomb making, or obligatory James Bond love disinterests. He writes with an authenticity that deserves notation for he lives in Australia, which is not exactly Sicily. And while any Author can visit that which he writes about, very few are able to place on paper their thoughts however worthy they might be.<br />Mr. Browne laces his work with historical fact that adds credibility and authenticity. He does not use it for a storyline he cannot create himself, or for details he does not know. This man is the genuine article, and if he can continue to write at the level he has set with this debut, he will become a writer of note, and share company with the legends in this genre.	2001-06-24
1954210:US	53047425	R3KE3WLSYNNU7F	039594113X	500972804	Hunts in Dreams	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Qualified Thoughts	I should not have read this book without having read the predecessor, or should I? The jacket says this novel is set in The American Midwest as his previous novel was. That comment alone in no manner suggests to me this is a sequel. I tried to divine whether it was by checking on, \\"The End Of Vandalism\\", and it's still not clear. My comments are based on this work as a stand-alone story.<br />Mr. Drury writes very sharp, and at times very clever prose. Some of the dialogue is as witty as you will come across. He also provides enough characters for a 500 page novel much less the 200 pages we are offered here. If this were indeed an installment in a series I would have thought more highly of it, and enjoyed it more. He creates a dysfunctional setting full of dysfunctional characters of varying degree and it makes for a good read. And that is where it ends.<br />Unless of course this is a series and the stories of his characters are going to continue. For this is one of those books that do not culminate in any form of resolution, rather it feels as though someone tore out the last several chapters of the book.<br />I like finding new Authors and enjoying their work. I have a real problem with expensive short books that are closer to a large fragment than a book, and may or may not be part of a greater whole because the jacket and the interpretation of it by others is at best vague, at worst wrong.	2001-06-18
1958052:US	53047425	R1RS9YSB8HFLAS	0060192488	641342878	The Name of the World: A Novel	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Great Right Up To The Time He Lost Control	Mr. Denis Johnson had quite a good book until the main character decided to digress and the story unraveled. Some Authors say they like to start their stories and let the characters develop on their own, others like to rigidly control these potentially wayward fictional constructs. Professor Michael Reed not only goes his own way, he hijacks the book leaving the Author and his story behind and unfinished. Were this felonious act even a moderate success it would be welcome, however our Professor is still recovering from personal tragedy, and coping with a group of people that minimally merit the description of bizarre.<br />Middle aged Professors consistently seem to not only find companionship from their much younger students, they also seem to discover those who have activities that most folks would find a bit to the left of strange. An attractive young woman competing as a stripper to earn a few dollars to make budgetary ends meet is hardly shocking. But this lass is also a performance artist. Suffice to say that if it was found The National Endowment For The Arts have given this woman a dime, Congress would be burned to the ground. I realize that sounds extremely right wing, but that would be the reaction whether you agree with her conduct or not. The woman in real-life who slathered herself in chocolate in substitution for clothes would rate a PG or perhaps PG-13 to this woman's show.<br />This co-ed's name is Flower Cannon; I wish I were making it up. The stretch of her name evoking flowers being forcefully dispersed by unnatural means fits perfectly with what ails the good Professor. It is also a tie that is the sorriest and lamest efforts for a writer of this caliber. When you read it you will groan or laugh depending on your mood.<br />This book is very expensive in hardcover form. This would be less of an issue if the work were brilliant. However I expect more than six pages per dollar spent, and in reality more like two or three when the drivel is left out. Great beginning, poor transition, hideous end.. Great beginning, poor transition, hideous end.	2001-06-15
1958743:US	53047425	RPGKQMUQOBY68	0395870461	697408376	The Springs of Affection: Stories of Dublin	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautifully Written, Harsh In Their Judgement	Mr. William Maxwell wrote the introduction to this book. He clearly was a man who valued Ms. Brennan as a writer and a friend. His introduction is as jarring as many of the stories, and it sets the tone for the tales the book contains. After reading this introduction to, \\"The Springs Of Affection\\", I would even reevaluate her other collected stories, \\"The Rose Garden\\". The quality of her work is not the question rather how her personal life drove the commentary the stories held. Mr. Maxwell refers to the premature end of her writing life and the cause, which was tragic. Though these stories were written before her troubles began a reader has to wonder if they explain so much about this woman who stayed in America at age 17 when her Family went home, and with a brief exception spent her life alone as well. These stories are full of bitterness, regret, and lives that were unfulfilled, children wished for, marriages unwanted, and a decent into madness for one.<br />The final story that is the title of the book is one of the best short stories I have read. The final story also could serve as a summary of the worst that the previous stories hold. It is riven with hatred, selfishness, and a woman who relishes the possessions of the dead no matter how close they were to her. Her preoccupation with the faults of others, and her one accomplishment of having outlived them all, is a portrait of a person more miserable than that of Dickens' Ebenezer. However this woman is worse, for she neither seeks an affirmation of life and is acutely aware of whom she has been for almost nine decades.<br />The other stories will document the gradual decay of relationships whether between family members or those who have wed. One husband is driven to sobbing not because he grieves for his dead wife; rather he realizes he lacks the ability to care enough to grieve. A mother looses a child and rejects her religion with an enthusiasm that is jarring. Those who have children often have little use for them, and those who are bereft of issue spend their years bemoaning their absence.<br />Mr. Maxwell described the stories with words like ferocious and devastating; they are all of that and more. It is a beautiful collection from a woman who was a brilliant writer who laid bare the darker sides of human nature without pause or apology, and felt no need for a redemptive or soft ending. Indeed the final story may be the hardest of all. For if a reader is left standing at the beginning of the final chapter, they will undoubtedly be flattened by its close.e for them, and those who are bereft of issue spend their years bemoaning their absence.<br />Mr. Maxwell described the stories with words like ferocious and devastating; they are all of that and more. It is a beautiful collection from a woman who was a brilliant writer who laid bare the darker sides of human nature without pause or apology, and felt no need for a redemptive or soft ending. Indeed the final story may be the hardest of all. For if a reader is left standing at the beginning of the final chapter, they will undoubtedly be flattened by its close.	2001-06-14
1961246:US	53047425	ROV1S0I1HLYFD	0375420983	348675377	Thanksgiving	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Why Not Writers	The term, \\"Derivative\\", often carries a derogatory or negative connotation when applied to a book. The criticism is often valid; a given Author lacking the skill/idea will replicate a thinly veneered version of the original. However great musicians, painters, and other skilled practitioners of the arts also have done variations on a theme for reasons of vanity, tribute, or reasons known only to them. Michael Dibdin's, \\"Dirty Tricks\\", was similar to John Banville's, \\"Book Of Evidence\\". The same comment can be validly made between, \\"Thanksgiving\\", by Mr. Dibdin, and \\"Before She Met Me\\", by Mr. Julian Barnes. All four books were very good and while sharing similar plot lines, they are complimentary, not derivative in a negative sense.<br />Mr. Dibdin has stepped aside from his well known, \\"Aurelio Zen\\", series on several occasions, I believe, `Thanksgiving\\", to be easily the best. The work is fairly brief at 182 pages, a length that few Authors can manage successfully, however Mr. Dibdin excels. There is a great deal of geography covered as well as an array of human emotion. The main players are kept to a tightly controlled few, and every word his uses must justify itself, he leaves little to zero room for excess.<br />The idea covered is the preoccupation with the life and conduct of a spouse prior to her becoming the subject's wife. The similarity between this book and Mr. Banville's ends here, what remains to be shared is the quality of the work. Violence, jealousy, remorse, and irrational behavior all are explored, the question to be resolved is how will it end, how will the emotions be dealt with. There is an additional catalyst in a rather unsavory character that elicits virtually all you would expect from Mr. Dibdin's main character. Darryl Bob Allen is not one of the more likable characters a reader will have come across, however I also feel he is one of the best human creations that Mr. Dibdin has conjured. As for cameo appearances the airline pilot who shares the details of a crashing plane, while disturbing, is also brilliant.<br />This book has jarring, provocative exchanges, however as the book progresses and distance and time increase, the intensity becomes more rational and manageable. There is no great twist that will send you reeling, rather a conclusion that could be misread if read with too much haste. The book is an elegant story, and a great addition to this man's work.the details of a crashing plane, while disturbing, is also brilliant.<br />This book has jarring, provocative exchanges, however as the book progresses and distance and time increase, the intensity becomes more rational and manageable. There is no great twist that will send you reeling, rather a conclusion that could be misread if read with too much haste. The book is an elegant story, and a great addition to this man's work.	2001-06-13
1961450:US	53047425	RGW0OCLCPQCFY	0316118451	834337507	I Don't Want to Go to Jail : A Good Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Author Is Correct	As noted on the cover of, \\"I Don't Want To Go To Jail\\", this is indeed, \\"A Good Novel\\". If the first third of the book and its humor were maintained throughout the novel, the book would have been great. The work certainly is as unique as its Author Mr. Breslin, so if at times it became a bit slow, there still was no temptation to put it down.<br />From the cover with its visual parodies of, \\"friends of ours\\", to the quote at the book's beginning from Mr. Sal Meli, who appears to have been the government's guest at many of their facilities, and finally with the endorsements on the back, its not totally unreasonable to suggest this is closer to historical fiction than a pure novel. Many of the characters in the book are or were true-life figures. Mr. Breslin must have either had this approved by, \\"The Concerned Lutherans\\", or perhaps is contemplating retirement in some Southwestern State living and writing under a new name. The other possibility is the subjects of this book have a sense of humor and enjoy being in Mr. Breslin's book as much as appearing on their very own trading card.<br />As the decline of, \\"The Fist\\", is chronicled along with the demise of the power of the traditional crime families, the story slows a bit as well. It may be that for those who are fans of, \\"The Godfather\\", and of the romanticized version that Hollywood has delivered, reading of the slide of The Boss from the top player to a broken shell that eats Thorazine like M&amp;M'S is akin to watching the mighty Casey strike out.<br />The influence of organized crime may wax and wane, however it is firmly embedded in our culture and literature. There are many who have chronicled the Families with a wide range of intent. For fun and authenticity Mr. Jimmy Breslin has no peer.	2001-06-13
1962160:US	53047425	RDBWI42H8UHUT	0870744429	107820551	Crossing Shattuck Bridge: Stories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Special	If you enjoy the special talent that can bring a wonderful tale filled with word-perfect dialogue, wit, and wisdom, and deliver it within the form of a short story, you will be hard pressed to better this collection. \\"Crossing Shattuck Bridge\\", by Ms. Annette Sanford is a series of ten stories that you will enjoy without exception. This is her second collection of her work the first book was published in 1987. The time between the books is the only rational reason I can find why this writer's work is not more widely known. The readers and fans of short story fiction are missing excellent writing.<br />Many of the stories are entered by the reader after the pivotal event has occurred, or a lifetime of habit is about to be disturbed, and not necessarily with negative consequences. An example of the latter is, \\"Housekeeping\\", that is as charming and funny a story as you will find oh so rarely. \\"In The Little Hunky River\\", which closes out the book has a great cast, however 80 year old \\"BoPeep\\", owns this story. She is part Mother, advisor, surrogate, and the fount of knowledge for a family badly damaged by an accident. She is one of those old souls who not only appear to know everything; she understands it all as well. When she has offered a loan, and the person asks what if he does not return it, she simply replies she will not die until he does.<br />This Author has a way of writing that is best experienced by reading her work. She has a style that strips every unnecessary word from her prose, gives the reader all they need, and maintains every detail. She does not have to tell you what someone was thinking, nor does she ponderously establish that a person's thoughts may have shifted to the past for a moment why they contemplate what they will say next. Her work reads as though there is much more written on the page. The magic of it is that she places in the reader's mind the story she wishes to tell without holding your hand the entire journey.<br />Unconditionally recommended.recommended.	2001-06-12
1962643:US	53047425	R1OUFTPOUP0DQE	0609601296	696817594	Heavy Water and Other Stories	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Spans The Range	The first story is clever and witty until it is repeated in an altered form later on. And the final story will be passed over by some readers, as it is at best annoying and at worst worthless. Mr. Martin Amis clearly is talented and quick with clever prose and he demonstrates this in his book, \\"Heavy Water And Other Stories\\". In between these extremes there are a variety of works than taken as a whole are quite good, however these are interrupted by other stories that are not up to the company they keep.<br />\\"Career Move\\", is the first and one of the better installments. The Author takes an aspect of life that everyone can relate to, changes it into an absurdity, and delivers a very funny and clever piece. \\"Straight Fiction\\", is a variant on the theme, and it not only seems familiar it diminishes the first story as well. The latter of the two is a bolder change of society, as we know it, for only the heterosexual need to be concerned about their being \\"outed\\". Not only does the Author tread a familiar path in his own book, but many others have played the what if game with major demographic changes at the center of their work. The issues are also quite real, and as such require a much more delicate touch, more sardonic than caustic.<br />\\"What Happened To Me On My Holiday\\", is a complete mystery to me. If torn from the book nothing would have been lost from this reader's experience. It may be there is an event that the story was associated with at the time it was published that would decrypt why it should amuse rather than annoy. If there is I am unaware of it.<br />I will read more of this writer's work but it will be as I find it, not as I spend the days searching.	2001-06-12
1967752:US	53047425	RJ7TC89CNOFM0	0345369580	554586969	The Sensationist	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Thousand Pages Short	The novels of Mr. Palliser generally are closer to or well in excess of 500 hundred pages. Having been through, \\"The Quincunx\\" and \\"The Unburied\\", I found, \\"The Sensationist\\", and at a miniscule 153 pages and thought I had stumbled upon another Author of the same name. That this is certainly not the case is readily apparent when the reading begins.<br />A male protagonist obsessed with encounters with women that are unknown to him until they become the object of his brief amusement, is not a new idea. Mr. Palliser puts his own mark on this theme with an easily unlikable predatory male named David. More interesting than David and his clich&eacute; lifestyle is the structure of the narrative as it presents the story in what would generally be considered sound bites if spoken. Not only is the information delivered sparingly, it's also vague on detail and delivered in a staccato blitz. This is primarily the case with everything outside of his physical encounters, but even they tend to be abbreviated once the conquest is at hand. The chase is all that matters, a woman he invites to spend the evening is someone he resents for being in his presence in the morning.<br />David has another vice that is for readers to puzzle over which eventually will contribute to his slide down from a comfortable life just as the building in which he lives is literally settling at an angle, and threatens to eventually travel down hill like the rest of his world. Mr. Palliser eventually takes David down, however it is not as you might expect or have read in the past. His fall does arrive and it is brutal even beyond what he perhaps deserved. There is of course a victim but it is not the one that is expected.<br />The book initially put me off, as I am a great admirer of his longer complex period pieces. The book quickly will change a reader's mind for it is clever, uniquely presented, and like all of this man's work, brilliantly executed.	2001-06-08
1968951:US	53047425	RX2VP9LCPJWW1	060960516X	195842000	Enchanted Night: A Novella	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Mediocre Moon Mischief	The Moon is often credited for a variety of events on this orb well beyond just moving the oceans about. During, \\"The Enchanted Night\\", of Steven Millhauser we learn what happens to one small town in Connecticut. The novella is extremely brief, and many of the pages are only lightly touched with the chosen font. The 109 pages that are used could have been reduced by a third without the white space.<br />If you look with a bit of care at the cover you will correctly anticipate much of what will be presented inside, and unfortunately it is not a great deal. The players and their tales are by necessity brief in the extreme, and as they are spread throughout the book the bits are so brief they only work, as the whole is so brief as well. Most of the story is harmless fun both real and imagined. There is one deviant thrown in for balance that seemed to act as more of an unwanted distraction as anything else. It's hard to pin down what the underlying theme here was supposed to be. However even as the dolls that awaken in some cases pursue another they admire, relationships and their variety are about the most prevalent idea.<br />This is the first work I have read by this Author, and while I will not rush to the next, I will not allow this volume to be the first and final.	2001-06-07
1969072:US	53047425	R1EDCUWUBOPLO1	0618071687	825848564	Mrs. Hollingsworth's Men	Books	2	7	14	N	N	There Is A Line	And it is a line that should be crossed and crossed again by anyone exercising free speech. The fashion of late is to label as Politically Correct anyone who takes issue with anything, be it a speech, a book, a bumper sticker. Respect can generally replace Politically Correct. This book that features General Nathan Bedford Forest on its cover is interesting and well written for what it appears to strive for. The subject is not the issue so much as the manner it is delivered.<br />Commentary along the lines of this book as, a wonderfully constructed web of existential surrealism with a postmodern retro flare, is both fine and meaningless. The book is clearly the work of a talented Author and if you can strip away all the nonsense it has its moments. Generally it is just a heavy-handed satire (I hope) to take down mass media, and along the way restore a woman to reality for at least one page.<br />I don't find the Civil War or one of its greatest advocates amusing especially when his record is selectively used. Great General and so on, but oops forgot the part about his founding of The Klan. You see the retired General brought us that triple K group with double digit I.Q.'S, quite a legacy. A hologram of this historical figure projected by characters whose real life counterparts are a sociopath and an assassin round out the majority of the group.<br />There are myriad ways of making a point including the use of dark or humor that stretches the very limits of what can pass as social commentary hidden in humor. However there is also this style with remarks like, \\"a man would be fiduciarily negligent unto himself not to market a gold-colored phone exclusively to the brother\\".<br />I would probably enjoy this Author's work if he chose a different way of expressing his thoughts. Being outrageous for its own sake is no sort of an accomplishment regardless of the adjectives used to dress it up. So call it surreal, call it insane; it still does not make it worthwhile.	2001-06-07
1970384:US	53047425	R14BA0AK0TA71C	0767902815	628071425	Gob's Grief: A Novel	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Grief Is Right	This started as a short story, and was published as such. That is where it should have stayed. For this book touches on a multitude of topics repeatedly, superficially, and never assembles the various threads into anything. This is a collection of repetitive parts that get worse as they overlap. The book's description/premise required a talented writer the likes of a Richard Powers, \\"Gold Bug Variations, etc\\" to succeed, and Mr. Adrian has a lengthy road ahead of him before he has that type of credibility and writing skill. This book is nicely packaged, with a description that is a stretch, and slick artwork on the cover, this is a marketer pushing a product that is premature.<br />The Author can drone on about death and grief and play at being a third rate Dr. Frankenstein for as long as he likes, however this rambling collection that continually stumbles over the same ground without appearing to have that intent, is just annoying. The, \\"Unnatural Pickie Beecher's\\", entrance into this book is laughingly bad. His initial appearance prior to his development is the stuff of wretched late night television. When talk turns to the uniting of the Mortal and Immortal it is no more than pretentious nonsense.<br />We have a main character that escapes Parents who have gone insane only to marry a husband who is pursuing a version of the same stupidity her Father had and she had destroyed. What appear to be attempts to tie behavior like this together into some overarching whole doesn't work. So the solution to dead end plot lines is to just add more. Enter Walt Whitman, why, I have not a clue. Suffragists, spiritualists, pseudo scientists, combined with a host of others ranging from the boring to the freakishly bizarre Pickie, might drive a reader to grieve over the money that was spent on this idea that might have been a book.<br />For this book to deliver all that the jacket promised it would have had to contain a single storyline, and probably been twice as long. This youngwriter may become a real talent in the future, however this book is a classic case of taking a young writer who may have a future, but who's work is forced too soon upon the reading public. Mr. Adrian will have to dig out from this, and that is sad.	2001-06-06
1970910:US	53047425	R2B4JHDSZUXN3L	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	4	6	10	N	N	No Ambiguity	This is my first experience with Mr. Roth's work. For those who like their Authors to shine bright lights on any space containing thoughts that may be uncomfortable, outrageous, and offensive to some, this is a writer you can count on. Nothing he wrote offended me, however I would not suggest reading this book during a meal.<br />Others have dissected the more complex nuances of this work, and I will leave that area to those who were part of the 60's decade. I found the book extremely well done, with dialogue as good as any I have read. A 70-year-old professor that plays Schubert and then nostalgically muses about Jimmy Hendrix reversed guitar riffs, takes a bit of getting used to. His obsession with women is not shocking, however his ability to objectify a woman at the most outrageously inappropriate moments can be labeled brutally candid, or severely unbalanced.<br />There is much that can be commented on but I particularly enjoyed the Author when he had his players go off on some rant. The Professor explaining his status as a Karamazov Father to his Son was great. His friend George when counseling his friend and his despair regarding Consuela was outrageously witty. And then of course the Professor proclaiming his is pro-choice for her, unless of course it interferes with a loved one. The Professor's use of our Constitution to enlighten his rather dim Son was hilarious. And if there has been a better condemnation of Cuba under Castro I have yet to read it.<br />Fascinating Author who creates memorable and complex characters, who also repeatedly goes farther off a limb than most would dare, and gets away with it.<br />Very interesting work.	2001-06-06
1971492:US	53047425	R1QHM09N2UY5XT	0312268068	977859362	The Second Death of George Mallory: The Enigma and Spirit of Mount Everest	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Very Unique View Of Everest	Although not a climber I have read and enjoyed many books about Everest, individual climbers, and other noted mountains as well. The Author of this book, Mr. Reinhold Messner, is a climbing legend who has accomplished a list of firsts that is almost beyond imagining. Even when he chooses a challenge other than the world's highest peaks, it is to walk across Antarctica and Greenland. He is a man of strong convictions that I imagine will upset many. However he has the personal expertise, and a history of accomplishment that gives credence to his thoughts. He is a practitioner of what he speaks.<br />Since the disaster of 1996 that claimed two of the world's great climbers and several of their clients there have been a number of books written about this tallest of mountains. Many have focused on placing blame, and that is an issue for each individual to judge based upon who is writing, and whom they are writing about.<br />Mr. Messner speaks of a second death, which occurred when the ability to write a check became the necessary qualification to attempt Everest. When a mountain that is spoken, and often written of, in awe struck manor has become in spots a junkyard with the highest elevation. Everest has become an extreme sport for the wealthy, some of which remain on the mountain forever.<br />He tells the tale of the three attempts that Mr. Mallory made, adds his own thoughts, and some hypothetical thoughts of Mallory as well. This last element could have been terribly contrived, but here it was an excellent addition to the book, and skillfully written. That it succeeded may in part be due to the philosophy of the man who wrote this book and the man who is the primary subject of it. For them and others like them, the guided tourist attraction that Everest has become is or would have been anathema to them.<br />Mr. Messner also gave the best description of whether or not Mallory and Irvine made the Summit. He is objective and keeps his admiration for those who tried separate from what he believes to be true. It was great reading, and it is a shame that the commercial review had to spoil it for readers. If you have not read it please don't, enjoy Mr. Messner's work as it was meant to be read.<br />While it is true that Mr. Mallory died on the mountain it is also true he was qualified to be there. He spent more time on and around Everest in clothing that would not be enough for most to venture out to shovel their driveway in. The technology available to him was virtually nil compared to today. But as Mr. Messner points out, Mr. Mallory's reason for climbing and his abilities not only qualified him then, but also continue to keep him in the Pantheon of the greatest climbers ever to have stepped on Everest, and a man who did so with respect for the mountain, and not for profit, and without endangering the lives of others.eparate from what he believes to be true. It was great reading, and it is a shame that the commercial review had to spoil it for readers. If you have not read it please don't, enjoy Mr. Messner's work as it was meant to be read.<br />While it is true that Mr. Mallory died on the mountain it is also true he was qualified to be there. He spent more time on and around Everest in clothing that would not be enough for most to venture out to shovel their driveway in. The technology available to him was virtually nil compared to today. But as Mr. Messner points out, Mr. Mallory's reason for climbing and his abilities not only qualified him then, but also continue to keep him in the Pantheon of the greatest climbers ever to have stepped on Everest, and a man who did so with respect for the mountain, and not for profit, and without endangering the lives of others.	2001-06-05
1973111:US	53047425	R164T1EWKTOF20	1559704446	298723638	Europa	Books	3	5	13	N	N	I Agree	Pretentious appears to be a common observation about this book and its central character Jerry Marlow. The word is really not intense enough, for if there is a superlative form of pretentious this book and most of its characters would qualify for the description.<br />Hypocrisy would be another apt description as the main character believes in nothing that he participates in, and this is the man who is to give the presentation of grievances to the European Union that are being brought via, &quot;The Shag Wagon&quot;. The members of this tale are firstly the academics and secondly their blindly supportive students. For the former group of Academic males the later groups of students are essentially targets of opportunity for personal romps.<br />The book appears to be a commentary on the absurdity of the European Union and that requires the affected pretensions of the characters to communicate the idea. The, &quot;United States Of Europe&quot; sounds like a punch line from a joke to begin with, and only gets better when the country that will function as the central bank for this United Europe is Germany. And people wonder why England wants nothing to do with this mess! The 20th Century's History alone is enough to ensure this Union never prospers. In the book one currency is being devalued as if its the 1920's and 30's of Germany, and in real life the value of the Euro started sinking virtually the day it was initialized.<br />At times the story is funny in a gray pathetic sort of way, but it also becomes tragically dark and exploitative as it winds down. The Author uses a variety of ways to show just how artificial the links to a United Europe are. There is Vikram; a man who is Welsh, but due to an Indian background is dark of complexion, so he exemplifies Europe without borders as he is also discriminated against because of his complex ethnicity.<br />Jerry Marlow like his fellow teachers is an instructor in languages. However regardless of the language an event takes place in, his memory can only recall it in English. Personal conduct is also brutally contrasted between characters of different nations, and may bother a few readers for the clich&eacute;'s they reinforce.<br />As a final comment the Author's style takes some acclimatizing as well. Mr. Parks likes to write in paragraphs that run to multiple pages, and sentences that should be multiple paragraphs. This makes for a run on stream of consciousness that you will either embrace or detest. This is the first work I have read by this Author, I may try again but it is not a priority.es place in, his memory can only recall it in English. Personal conduct is also brutally contrasted between characters of different nations, and may bother a few readers for the clich's they reinforce.<br />As a final comment the Author's style takes some acclimatizing as well. Mr. Parks likes to write in paragraphs that run to multiple pages, and sentences that should be multiple paragraphs. This makes for a run on stream of consciousness that you will either embrace or detest. This is the first work I have read by this Author, I may try again but it is not a priority.	2001-06-04
1973200:US	53047425	R3VW78KVPB5S3Q	1582430500	516383250	The Rose Garden: Short Stories	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Phenomenal	Ms. Maeve Brennan wrote for and about, &quot;The New Yorker&quot;, magazine for over four decades. The New Yorker is many things including a publication known for excellence. To have been a part of such an institution for so long is enough to place this woman in a very small group if not alone for her tenure there. &quot;The Rose Garden&quot;, is one of two books that collect short stories Ms. Brennan created, and they are without exception excellent.<br />Of the twenty stories there are a few that are stand-alone tales. The book opens and then closes with a series of stories that share place and characters but also could stand by themselves as well. The first grouping is a brilliant and savage attack on a small community north of Manhattan, which is based upon a community the writer, lived in. She has a rapier wit and she uses it to dismember the people and their pretensions that occupy this community. She does it with such style that some of the targets would probably lack the insight to see just how badly she savaged them and their affected lifestyle. There are two stories that on their own are worth owning the book, one is, &quot;The Servant's Dance&quot;, and the other begins with, &quot;The Holy Terror&quot;. Writing such as this is a rare event.<br />The cover of the book is a picture of the writer from 1949. If those Irish Eyes of hers ever focused on a person and identified them as a target, it would be akin to being told Mike Wallace of 60 minutes was waiting to speak with you.<br />A wonderful writer and a woman that must have been a daunting presence to be in the midst of. Fantastic reading!	2001-06-04
1976023:US	53047425	R2U7PDCJDPGUR6	0385501536	271797931	Aiding and Abetting: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Familiarity Would Help	This book by Ms. Muriel Spark, \\"Aiding And Abetting\\", deals with a crime committed in 1974 and a perpetrator that is known, but still unaccounted for. The crime itself is true and the book is a study of what might have or could have happened in the last 27 years. It is entirely possible that the criminal could read this book, as he would be only 66 years old at the time of publication.<br />Having no prior knowledge with the event it was difficult to be absorbed in the actual crime. For those who remember it I would imagine the experience of reading this book would be all the more interesting. I enjoyed it, but had I been acquainted with the event before, I believe I would have enjoyed it more. I imagine that many of the players in the book represented real or referred to persons presumed to be involved, but again not knowing the original players and their involvement this aspect was not readily apparent. The Author also chose to run a parallel story about another criminal, which seemed to make the events even more improbable. This is a very brief book and the number of characters was a bit overwhelming.<br />What is very clear is the condemnation the Author continually points out about the supposed privileged persons of England, and their absurd sense of their self and their place in the world. This is not tabloid nonsense rather a very biting commentary on how this man most likely was able to flee the scene, and how to this day he is seen as something other than a person who should be hung until quite dead. Even the next generation who affects being appalled at their previous generation's behavior really is in search of an interview with the criminal and not an arrest. Ms. Spark takes this to every level of the upper classes and involves the Church as well. These persons who act as though they live in the 18th Century is morbidly demonstrated by their suggesting the lower classes are likely to bleed more than their aristocratic counterparts.<br />The suggested story is brought to an end that is a bit too neat and predictable. It is a sort of, turnabout is fair play, event and was not as satisfying as I wished it were. The book is well written by a woman who is in the 9th decade of her life and is still producing quality work far above most contemporary writers.ry is brought to an end that is a bit too neat and predictable. It is a sort of, turnabout is fair play, event and was not as satisfying as I wished it were. The book is well written by a woman who is in the 9th decade of her life and is still producing quality work far above most contemporary writers.	2001-06-01
1978503:US	53047425	RZQZXAF1CA02	0786709359	722977541	Watson's Apology: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Very Different Watson	Ms. Bainbridge has taken well-known bits of History and placed her mark on them. When she has done this the degree of familiarity you may have had with the event is forever altered. Previously I have enjoyed her version of events that were famous and or notorious, however this time her subject is one that was completely unknown. Further it was not even a remarkable story albeit a true one until Ms. Bainbridge decided to complete all that might have happened which was a larger piece of the known story. History recorded only the results and consequences never the cause.<br />This is not the Watson of literary fame that spent his time sleuthing with the great Sherlock Holmes. This man is as ordinary as the afore mentioned were extraordinary, and he only rose to average when at his best. The story is based on a true crime of the late 19th Century and one that is committed in this country on a daily basis. This part is important for the Author takes an event that is anything but momentous and makes it an excellent read. Further she ventures into social and moral commentary that is valid and argued to this day.<br />The Reverend Watson commits a hideous crime, not even he contests this fact. What no one can account for is why the act took place and his state of mind when committing it. The writer supplies a multiple decade history of what might have happened inclusive of the briefest of alleged dialogue.<br />The triumph here is a novel that utilizes a host of documents and court transcripts together with letters to a variety of newspapers. But they are only a part, almost addenda to what Ms. Bainbridge adds. It is as though she was given only an answer and wrote a thesis on the question.<br />This is another wonderful work by a writer who is consistently excellent.	2001-05-31
1978801:US	53047425	R1KK7UIS6F3LRB	0375421041	27158829	The Dark Room: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Very Well Done	Ms. Seiffert's book, \\"The Dark Room\\", is notable as not only an auspicious debut for this young writer, but additionally for her remarkable talent in relating a feel for human events that took place decades before she was born. None of these three stories is based on Historical Fact, what she wrote she created. That the stories probably did occur in some manner, takes nothing away from the writing she offers readers.<br />The book contains three stories or novellas that are not dependent upon one another, and while not all carried the same impact, the three are consistently well written. The Author writes in an understated manner, this is not a series of stories that shock by atrocity alone. The book is replete with human suffering both inflicted and endured, but it is delivered with a subtle pen. Ms. Seiffert also has taken a less familiar perspective in this book. The book does have a camp survivor as a pivotal player in the final story, however generally we see the other victims of the crimes of this war. The events that forever damage these people are explored both as they happened and as they are uncovered generations later.<br />The final story is, \\"Micha\\", and I found it to be the strongest. Those who were affected by being present during the war and its aftermath generally struggle with grief or rage that is more familiar; they are the immediate victims of the conflict. The final story painfully demonstrates that certain conduct has ramifications that never subside, as they literally inhabit the generations that follow. Time does not in fact heal many things.<br />I look forward to more of what this woman will offer as she has a manner of writing that that slowly invades the mind's eye, and in this case encompasses it with its horror and crimes. It is a powerful method of delivering themes that are all fundamentally appalling, without any added emphasis. She presents her stories without flourish and without preaching. A very talented young Author.	2001-05-30
1981054:US	53047425	R17QJDH4DOG67Y	0767902815	628071425	Gob's Grief: A Novel	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Grief Is Right	This started as a short story, and was published as such. That is where it should have stayed. For this book touches on a multitude of topics repeatedly, superficially, and never assembles the various threads into anything. This is a collection of repetitive parts that get worse as they overlap. The book's description/premise required a talented writer the likes of a Richard Powers, \\"Gold Bug Variations, etc\\" to succeed, and Mr. Adrian has a lengthy road ahead of him before he has that type of credibility and writing skill. This book is nicely packaged, with a description that is a stretch, and slick artwork on the cover, this is a marketer pushing a product that is premature.<br />The Author can drone on about death and grief and play at being a third rate Dr. Frankenstein for as long as he likes, however this rambling collection that continually stumbles over the same ground without appearing to have that intent, is just annoying. The, \\"Unnatural Pickie Beecher's\\", entrance into this book is laughingly bad. His initial appearance prior to his development is the stuff of wretched late night television. When talk turns to the uniting of the Mortal and Immortal it is no more than pretentious nonsense.<br />We have a main character that escapes Parents who have gone insane only to marry a husband who is pursuing a version of the same stupidity her Father had and she had destroyed. What appear to be attempts to tie behavior like this together into some overarching whole doesn't work. So the solution to dead end plot lines is to just add more. Enter Walt Whitman, why, I have not a clue. Suffragists, spiritualists, pseudo scientists, combined with a host of others ranging from the boring to the freakishly bizarre Pickie, might drive a reader to grieve over the money that was spent on this idea that might have been a book.<br />For this book to deliver all that the jacket promised it would have had to contain a single storyline, and probably been twice as long. This young writer may become a real talent in the future, however this book is a classic case of taking a young writer who may have a future, but who's work is forced too soon upon the reading public. Mr. Adrian will have to dig out from this, and that is sad.writer may become a real talent in the future, however this book is a classic case of taking a young writer who may have a future, but who's work is forced too soon upon the reading public. Mr. Adrian will have to dig out from this, and that is sad.	2001-05-29
1981095:US	53047425	R3K843WL8APUD6	1559705833	452566987	Gardener to the King: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Powerful Novella	Mr. Frederic Richaud delivers a surprisingly insightful look in the Court of Louis XIV in a remarkably brief piece. \\"Gardener To The King\\", proves that quantity has no relation to the quality of the specific information shared, or the talented pen that created the whole.<br />If you like gardening imagine being able to supply the food for 1,000 guests for a single event! Imagine that the number you can feed grows to a multiple of the originally astronomic figure. The Gardens At Versailles serves as a wonderful metaphor for the time and the excess of this Monarch's reign. The tale also shows the unbridgeable gap that can exist between those that create as opposed to those who just admire the whole or consume its parts.<br />Jean Baptiste de La Quintinie may be the gardener to the King, however that is a factor that is eventually proved meaningless to this gifted man. Jean has his beliefs as to why his work is important and should be valued, yet when there are events at the King's Table he is known for disappearing if he arrives at all. He eventually comes to sit at the King's right hand for an evening that showcases his work for the unmatched triumph that it is. His skills are confirmed yet again as having no parallel.<br />So why an ending that will surprise? One man's art in the end is a meal or side dish to thousands. That he is celebrated across Europe may or may not sustain him. Mr. Richaud delivers a wonderful historically based piece with value in every sentence.	2001-05-29
1986629:US	53047425	R3143JAB84ZKW8	0399147144	95999767	Warrior Class	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great Amalgam Of His Body Of Work To Date	\\"Chains Of Command, Flight Of The Night Hawk, And The Tin Man\\", all lend past events and technology to Mr. Brown's newest work, \\"Warrior Class\\". The balance of the content is what I believe his readers have always enjoyed in his books, and further, this latest work also diverges a bit from those that came before. It adds uncertainty and questions the most fundamental reasons why the wizards from Nevada exist and what justifies their conduct. This book is a departure from previous works, not because the previous work had become stale, rather Mr. Brown appears to be giving a new direction and extending the life, legitimacy, and reader interest for the characters in his previous 12 Novels. I think the integrity he shows and the respect he demonstrates to his readers is something that many other Novelists who just turn out repetitive modifications of their previous work should take note of.<br />My personal issue with this book is the reappearance of, \\"Tin Man Technology\\". The original book was my least favorite, and this time all was well until they literally started jumping. The technology used in the book is fascinating, and fun even when it gets a bit outrageous, but the Tin Man stills really strains credulity. The same can be said for some of the other technology, however there performance is more plausible.<br />It would be interesting to know how far ahead Mr. Brown plans these books for they neither have continuity issues, nor do they resort to outrageous filler to make the stories work. The next book should be very interesting if it continues this time line, for as I mentioned Mr. Brown has radically altered some fundamental premises going back to, \\"The Flight Of The Old Dog\\".<br />If you have enjoyed any of his previous books you will find much to like with his latest. The Tin Man is an aspect I could do without, but I'm sure other readers love it. Some of the past masters of this genre are either gone or have just become imitators of their early and best work. Mr. Brown has reached a, \\"Baker's Dozen\\", and he shows no sign of letting his readers down.<br />The reason for the 4.5 star rating is that blasted Tin Trooper, and the initials of a new political player!<br />Enjoy, well worth the time!. Mr. Brown has reached a, \\"Baker's Dozen\\", and he shows no sign of letting his readers down.<br />The reason for the 4.5 star rating is that blasted Tin Trooper, and the initials of a new political player!<br />Enjoy, well worth the time!	2001-05-24
1987609:US	53047425	R175JDMEEAGW5J	0446523275	710516551	L.A. Justice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pleasant Surprise	It is very easy to dismiss this book as a continuing opportunistic money generator from a notable trial Mr. Darden was involved in. Suggesting it resembles anything to do with the infamous Criminal Trial Mr. Darden prosecuted is just too easy and lazy. The truth is that this book would probably be more highly rated if his name were not associated with the book. Cynicism is a sport in this Country, and if that kept people from this book it's their loss.<br />While the Courtroom plays a role in this book it does not monopolize the story. Mr. Darden could easily produce courtroom tales from his 15 years as an L.A. Prosecutor. The book is more of a mystery and it is much better than what most Lawyers turned Novelists are offering by the truckload. You never know who really wrote what in these collaborations, but Mr. Dick Lochte deserves his share of the credit as well.<br />I have not read the first installment in this series but I enjoyed this volume enough that I will backtrack to the first. I view books of this type as clever and entertaining if done reasonably well, and this book certainly qualifies. The book did contain a couple of comments that were based on the fruit who was, \\"responsible for but not guilty of\\", killing two people. I found these distracting at best, and petty cheap shots at worst. In his book on the trial his personal feelings were appropriate, to continue to drag them into novels just gives credence to the charge he continues to use and profit from the one trial.<br />I don't read many books like this, however this is worth the time. My only criticism is that the book was a bit longer than it needed to be, and the more of this type of book you have read the earlier you may puzzle out the plot. I believe the Authors started tipping their hand too early almost as an effort to justify the continuation of the story they wished to tell.<br />Entertaining read. 3.5 Stars	2001-05-23
1988606:US	53047425	R3KLXIKV0AWRX0	0786702583	679307658	Young Adolf (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	The Afterward	William Patrick Hitler was born in Liverpool where he lived with his Parents. One indeed was Alois Hitler the half brother of Adolph. With this book Ms. Beryl Bainbridge stepped into what could have been controversial ground. Historically based fiction is a familiar foundation for her work, and this one is excellent.<br />In, \\"Young Adolph\\", the Author imagines a trip he might have taken to visit his brother in Liverpool when he was 23 years of age. To the extent there is humor in the work it is at the expense of her subject who on his best day does not rise above pathetic, and when drunk becomes a raging lunatic. If this sounds familiar it should, as the Hitler of History was so painfully ordinary it is almost beyond belief he did not die on the street during one of his homeless periods.<br />The Author brings about several events that are not earth shattering until you place them in the context of the Evil that was to be Hitler. Some are relatively minor as when we learn how his ridiculous hairstyle came about. However Ms. Bainbridge also hypothesizes where some of the events and practices that later would shake the world and resonate to today, may have started.<br />The book is as interesting as many Historical Works I have read about this genocidal maniac, and in some ways it carries with it more impact than scholarly studies of the creature. When portrayed as he has been presented here, the horror he becomes and unleashes on a good portion of the world, is either amazing or terrifying and probably both. An evil genius would be an understandable character, however such an unlikely character that History elevated to one of the great mass murderers of the 20th Century is as far from genius as language allows. And this is what Ms. Bainbridge illustrates so well in this work.	2001-05-23
1988965:US	53047425	R1ZAWMZUX6OSGD	0571162169	79399955	Dirty Tricks (Crime)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Interesting Opportunity	Very often when a book is described as derivative or is almost a different version of a previous work, the reader should expect very little. \\"Dirty Tricks\\", by Mr. Michael Dibdin is very similar to, \\"The Book Of Evidence\\" by Mr. John Banville. The latter of the mentioned books was published first. The work was excellent and I commented on the book recently. I knew nothing of the similarity prior to my reading Mr. Dibdin's work, however there was no disappointment at all.<br />These are both very fine albeit different writers stylistically. Mr. Dibdin tends to be more straightforward; the reader knows where they stand when the work comes to the end. Mr. Banville's writing has been categorized as post modern. The latter label sounds a bit pretentious to me, however without denigrating the work of Mr. Dibdin Mr. Banville's work is more contemplative, he sets a more serious tone and asks more from his readers. I have read both Authors extensively and would say that Mr. Dibdin would appeal to a larger audience on the first reading while Mr. Banville is a more acquired taste. The extra effort is time exceedingly well spent.<br />Both works are almost entirely first person narratives that are conversationally directed at a group that will pass Judgement on the Narrator. Mr. Banville has commented that Narrators by definition are not to be trusted because of their view, so his character is confused and what is truth and what is fantasy is unclear. Mr. Dibdin's character is guilty of similar behavior in the eyes of the law but to a lesser degree. However Tim in, \\"Dirty Tricks\\", is by far the more repulsive.<br />Tim calculates everything, will exploit anyone, and is planning how to move from one conquest to the next before finishing with the first. Mr. Dibdin does a wonderful job of getting the reader to despise the individual in Tim's way, only to make you feel sympathetic for them when Tim gets his wish. Tim travels from a fairly witty academic trading pretentious comments about wine into a social climbing goldigger you will grow to hate.<br />The book is filled with great portraits of characters like Clive who spouts such spectacular nonsense about wine until you learn he has memorized, or once having imbibed a bit will refer to the notes that come with the wine he gets every month from the club to which he subscribes. The book is great fun even as it darkens. Mr. Dibdin does a remarkable job of taking Tim from a wannabee social climber; to one you want nothing more to do with in a fairly brief but wonderfully written tale. Please read both Authors as each has written a great book. Their structure may be alarmingly similar, but the reading experience is completely unique in each.about wine into a social climbing goldigger you will grow to hate.<br />The book is filled with great portraits of characters like Clive who spouts such spectacular nonsense about wine until you learn he has memorized, or once having imbibed a bit will refer to the notes that come with the wine he gets every month from the club to which he subscribes. The book is great fun even as it darkens. Mr. Dibdin does a remarkable job of taking Tim from a wannabee social climber; to one you want nothing more to do with in a fairly brief but wonderfully written tale. Please read both Authors as each has written a great book. Their structure may be alarmingly similar, but the reading experience is completely unique in each.	2001-05-22
1989909:US	53047425	R3BYNVOPT6UMRW	0684873893	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship : A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Wonderful Writer	Mr. Colm Toibin addresses an event both common and simultaneously unique in, \\"The Blackwater Lightship\\". This book will not appeal to all, as the most extreme may deem the illness that will eventually kill the focus of the book, as something deserved. That the inevitable outcome that has resulted from this new affliction that has gone from unknown killer of a few to a worldwide life taking tragedy is still a stigmatized disease. Expanded outside the principal character in this book, a great irony is that action, which is one of the most basic necessities for the survival of any species, has also become a way to die.<br />A young man returns to his Grandmother's home. His condition is perilous and the secrets he has kept from his Family must now be coped with along with his frail health. That a tragedy can bring together estranged Family members is not new, however the Author brings together a wider group that is not just the traditional Family but a surrogate one as well. There are the inevitable clashes of those who have cared for him when there was no Family member to be found, his biological Family who feels these friends are intruders, and then the conflicts that have kept three generations of women apart for a decade. The resolutions that must take place so that a daughter will allow her mother to see her children for the first time in that decade, and meet her son in law for the first time as well.<br />The story is set in Catholic Ireland and deals with issues of non-traditional partners and the Catholic Church that are difficult, and will not be received well by those who hold with tradition. This was a gutsy book to write and well deserving of being short-listed for the prestigious, \\"Booker Prize\\". The Author is a very talented writer and even though some will pass his work by due to subject matter they are most certainly the losers. Literature may not always be comfortable to all who read it, readers may not agree with an idea, a theology, or a lifestyle. However to deprive oneself from a talented Author who discusses social issues for which beliefs are passionately held would be a loss. This is a wonderful book about extraordinary people.However to deprive oneself from a talented Author who discusses social issues for which beliefs are passionately held would be a loss. This is a wonderful book about extraordinary people.	2001-05-22
1994022:US	53047425	R22NGXUD9RSAU8	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	5	50	64	N	N	Tremendous Presentation	I have never read, \\"The Puzzle Palace\\", so my only exposure to this Author is this work.  I have read about the NSA on other occasions, however nothing as complete as this volume appears to be.  I use the word appears as I believe some reasonable skepticism must accompany a work that attempts to pierce the veil of the most secret government organization this country has.<br />The author presents a great deal of information on certain historical events, and to a lesser extent the technology involved.  Many of the events portrayed are still the issue of intense debate.  I fell the author did a good job of making the case for the events he presented to readers.  Many of these events portray national leaders or arms of a variety of governments in terms that will not be welcome.  I thought the author did an excellent job of confining the discussion to the factors involved.  His comments in no way portray or judge the populations of a given country.  If he attributed governmental behavior to a given group I believe he would have destroyed his credibility, or at least have brought it into question.  This standard must also flow the other way, governments should not claim their actions are legitimate because of passed injustices they may have endured.  Sons are not to be punished for a father's sin, and niether may those sins be sued to generically justify actions taken decades later.<br />There is no question that if the NSA targets a person or persons they have the ability to document much of their waking moments and what might hit their fax of computer while they sleep.  I think it is also clear that the charge that this is an Agency that would fulfill Orwell's prophecy is unjustified.  As is apparent from the book, even if the NSA could instantly adapt to every new form of communication and its variants, they have not and do not have the abililty to review it all, or even a large portion of it.  They have the same problem we all have, technology is evolving so rapidly, and changing in such fundamental ways they too are constantly playing catch up.  While there is no way to be certain if the information about their lack of ability to deal with fiber optics, and the dates projected for vesseks to increase those capabilities are accurate, I believe the point is made.<br />Very often the information they collect is from fairly low-tech devices.  The fact that an amazing array of high tech stealth communication may be possible does not prove that those who may intend to harm the country have access to those tools.<br />The events that surround the events of The Hip Liberty are extremely upsetting as it is presented here.  The issue is why was this ship attacked and why was a US ally doing the damage?  The story is about very troubling behavior that brought about the event, and in my opinion the very poor manner that then President Johnson handles the aftermath.  To take the event and expand it to the cultures involved dilutes the tragedy of what happened.  People make decisions because they either believed they were appropriate, or they made tragic errors.  The story brought to mind is the time a US Aegis Cruiser shot down a civilian Iranian Commercial Aircraft.  It happened due to tragic mistakes and misjudgments, not because of the plane's origins.and changing in such fundamental ways they too are constantly playing catch up.  While there is no way to be certain if the information about their lack of ability to deal with fiber optics, and the dates projected for vesseks to increase those capabilities are accurate, I believe the point is made.<br />Very often the information they collect is from fairly low-tech devices.  The fact that an amazing array of high tech stealth communication may be possible does not prove that those who may intend to harm the country have access to those tools.<br />The events that surround the events of The Hip Liberty are extremely upsetting as it is presented here.  The issue is why was this ship attacked and why was a US ally doing the damage?  The story is about very troubling behavior that brought about the event, and in my opinion the very poor manner that then President Johnson handles the aftermath.  To take the event and expand it to the cultures involved dilutes the tragedy of what happened.  People make decisions because they either believed they were appropriate, or they made tragic errors.  The story brought to mind is the time a US Aegis Cruiser shot down a civilian Iranian Commercial Aircraft.  It happened due to tragic mistakes and misjudgments, not because of the plane's origins.	2001-05-18
1994468:US	53047425	R1CM6F30CY992N	1928782140	518412421	Famous Crimes Revisited: From Sacco-Vanzetti to O.J. Simpson	Books	1	25	28	N	N	Nothing New, Superficial, And A Ridiculous Format	If you have read about any of these trials there is no reason to read this book. And if any of the trials are unfamiliar to you the same information this book offers can be found in a variety of places for free. As to the most recent events this book covers, if you have watched, read, or heard any sort of news, you already are familiar with this book's contents.<br />The strangest part of this book is Dr. Henry Lee's decision to will himself back and forth in time to witness the trials, and even adds a traveling companion in the form of a, now you see him now you don't apparition. This would have remained just a terrible literary device if left in the dreamy time travels of Dr. Lee, however when he asks people in the real world if they have missed him while he was gone on his time travels the reader must wince!<br />The photographs that are included are the same that have been seen countless times before, and due to the number of trials covered in this short book, there are fewer photos than appear in books that cover their subjects in detail. The Time/interest Dr. Lee had in this book is measurable by his actual comments that appear in bold face type. They cannot account for even half the book, and when you remove his fictional time traveling friend, the percentage is even more insignificant. His Co-Author basically filled in the blanks with testimony from trials and other pieces of documents, again none of which were new or even marginally interesting.<br />Seven major trials are covered in 251 pages, one trial consumes 85 pages, so two thirds of the book is left for 6 trials including what many would suggest is the most infamous. Most disturbing was Dr. Lee's attitude about, \\"scientific truth\\"; combined with absolute professional distance from the trials he is involved in. How can he be an advocate, a paid consultant for one side in a trial and be completely objective about the truth regardless of the effect it has on his client? And while he repeatedly states he is not making a Judgement as to guilt or innocence in a given case, his apparition friend conveniently and frequently supplies his opinion.<br />Dr. Lee clearly is a greatly respected man in his field, however this book does not justify why we should feel he is the best no matter how many times he is referred to as the finest, greatest, and so on. This is a very lightweight book from a man who one would expect to deliver some very interesting reading.is not making a Judgement as to guilt or innocence in a given case, his apparition friend conveniently and frequently supplies his opinion.<br />Dr. Lee clearly is a greatly respected man in his field, however this book does not justify why we should feel he is the best no matter how many times he is referred to as the finest, greatest, and so on. This is a very lightweight book from a man who one would expect to deliver some very interesting reading.	2001-05-18
1995152:US	53047425	R15DLD77Y64LBX	0786704675	657433292	Every Man for Himself (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Icebergs Part II	This is the second Historically Based Novel I have read by Ms. Beryl Bainbridge, the first was, \\"The Birthday Boys\\". Of the two I believe the one based upon the Scott voyage to the Pole was much stronger, however the Author's writing is consistently good. I think this work suffered a bit in my reading as the movie, \\"Titanic\\", kept intruding. There were bound to be similarities in this maritime mess, however the screen version insinuating itself into the written work was a distraction.<br />\\"Every Man For Himself\\", takes place in virtually the same time frame as, \\"The Birthday Boys\\". The latter work was excellent in telling a story that became a metaphor for the time and its philosophies, the former does this again in a confined setting, and for this reader it was less interesting. Blind faith to the point of negligence in Technology of the unsinkable ship, and a list of passengers that would rate the top tier of Fortune's wealthiest certainly make for an interesting cast. However unlike the Scott work which spread itself across a wide range of people, this was more narrowly confined to the wealthiest cast, and finding empathy for these incredibly rich and generally pompous caricatures is hard. Our guide through most of the book is a member of The Morgan Clan, and even though his relation is tenuous his wealth makes him as boring as the rest.<br />The Author did introduce an event that was new to me, and even if it is not historically accurate (I don't know) it did make the story much more intriguing. If that plot line had been the main thread instead of more traditional love interests, and the preoccupation with scoring off of others to their detriment I think I would have enjoyed the work more.	2001-05-18
1996420:US	53047425	RMC8LS1C54CIO	0312253435	321980030	The Cassandra Compact: A Covert-One Novel	Books	1	37	46	N	N	Mr. Ludlum Always Respected His Readers	When Mr. Ludlum passed away recently the readers of his work lost one of the true originals in a genre that has becoming overcrowded with imitators. Not all of his books were as special as a given person's favorite, however he wrote with the knowledge that made his stories credible. This second book in, \\"The Covert One Series\\", is as bad and possibly worse than the initial volume in the series. The obituary that I read stated he was working on three additional books before he died that will be published. I hope someone has the integrity to publish the work if it was his or be candid with where the book was when he stopped working upon it. At the very least these Covert One amalgams that clearly had a minimal amount of his involvement should not be the final works to carry his name. That would be a travesty of this man's real books, and to his memory.<br />Between the last of this series and this mess, we had, \\"The Prometheus Deception\\", a few minutes with that book proves the difference between a Robert Ludlum Book, and Robert Ludlum's Covert Collaboration. This book is bad from the cover. The word, \\"Cassandra\\", has a very specific meaning and it has absolutely nothing to do with this book's contents. In the first few dozen pages you will read the most ridiculous writing. A man is blown back by a shockwave and is unconscious; upon waking he not only can identify the explosive used but how it was detonated. His explanation is absurd, the material is absurd as it is the last thing that would have been used, and the reasons are much clearer than the preposterous statements.<br />How about the fact that NASA has learned to defy one of the basic laws of nature? Great, explain it to me, don't just toss it in a sentence and expect me to take your word for Science Fiction that would challenge Star Wars. But this continues throughout the book, \\"military grade bullets\\", what was military about them? How do you hide behind a Grand Piano so that \\"expert assassins\\" shred the piano with these magic bullets and miss you?<br />Probably the most offensive example of lazy writing, but by no means the only example was as follows. If you wish to demonize someone it's bad enough to drag up the most overused group of the 20th Century and tie the person/company to them. When you then state an absolute falsehood about a fact that anyone who has read about the Historical Period being used would identify as ridiculous, the writer goes beyond lazy, to something just above mentally inert.<br />There are facts stated at the beginning that change by a factor of 600% later in the book, and other events that are too implausible to mention here.<br />Mr. Ludlum was one of the best. Having read these Covert One pieces of trash, I am convinced he had little to do with them. Compare any 10 pages from one of his books to one of these 2 alleged collaborations and decide for yourself. My library of this man's work has come to an end as soon as I toss these two in the recycle bin.no with these magic bullets and miss you?<br />Probably the most offensive example of lazy writing, but by no means the only example was as follows. If you wish to demonize someone it's bad enough to drag up the most overused group of the 20th Century and tie the person/company to them. When you then state an absolute falsehood about a fact that anyone who has read about the Historical Period being used would identify as ridiculous, the writer goes beyond lazy, to something just above mentally inert.<br />There are facts stated at the beginning that change by a factor of 600% later in the book, and other events that are too implausible to mention here.<br />Mr. Ludlum was one of the best. Having read these Covert One pieces of trash, I am convinced he had little to do with them. Compare any 10 pages from one of his books to one of these 2 alleged collaborations and decide for yourself. My library of this man's work has come to an end as soon as I toss these two in the recycle bin.	2001-05-17
2000247:US	53047425	RVTXOHFXMB9VV	0345323610	508075047	Blow Your House Down	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very Difficult To Read	Ms. Pat Barker is a wonderful writer. I have read and enjoyed almost all her work, and while the tone is rarely joyous, nothing prepares you for, \\"Blow Your House Down\\". By saying difficult I do not mean complex, rather uncomfortable. The degrading world that she portrays makes Dickensian England appear to be family entertainment.<br />The story is generally about women who are prostitutes, generally not by choice or to feed an addiction. Most are Mothers paying the bills after the men have finished their abuse and left. Specifically the story centers on a time when a serial killer of prostitutes is at large. This is not a lengthy book and it is not filled with dozens of murders. However, once during the book Ms. Barker portrays a murder and its aftermath in a manner so shocking I put the book down before continuing.<br />The guts this writer has are amazing. There is nothing stylized, clever or fascinating about this crime. She serves up the act of murder in as disturbing a manner as I have ever read. It is raw and graphic, and totally appropriate, but it is brutal reading. This is not TV nonsense; there is nothing to soften her story. It is about as razor edged as it could be. I honestly cannot imagine it being more coldly depicted.<br />The writer is not heartless, the book is also full of friendships and compassion, however the two do not mix, and she does not give the reader or her characters a break. There is no pause, no rest, no easing of the tremendous pressure even at the book's end. Ms. Barker writes brilliantly and if you can take her unadorned view of reality you will have a reading experience you will not soon forget.	2001-05-14
2000425:US	53047425	R2NX133RW6EMWM	0786702079	434551040	The Birthday Boys (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Much More Than An Expedition	The Scott Expedition of 1912 is documented by dozens if not hundreds of books. So why would a writer bother to take on the topic as Historical Fiction? In this case she had much more in mind that merely sharing the hypothetical viewpoints of Scott and 4 others who narrate their experiences. She uses the narrators sequentially as opposed to having them recount their opinions of the same event. There is some redundancy in opinions, but I really liked the way the narrative was a continual thread, and not a series of viewpoints on a redundant topic.<br />Ms. Bainbridge uses this tragedy of Scott to illustrate a turning point in History, a change in the fundamental beliefs and manner of approaching problems. The Scott Expedition serves as an example of the great changes during the very early 20th Century. The fact that Scott and his men failed to be the first, and that they all died, is either tragic or negligent when the fact that this was his second time out to plant the flag at the pole is considered. Not only is he beaten to his goal, his philosophies are proved to be the reason for his failure.<br />As with mountaineering these other attempts at, \\"firsts\\" were the domain of, \\"Class\\", and not necessarily ability. Those who lead, like Officers who had bought their Commissions were not necessarily qualified, and were often inept at that which they attempted foolishly and were risking their death and that of their men.<br />\\"Courage\\", was what would see a task through. A leaking ship before even leaving its berth was just a preview to the lack of planning and leadership that killed them all. Scott would not use dogs it must be a march. In this he was almost Victorian in his thinking. But then he brought motorized machines that not only were useless and in total opposition to his other ideas, it was also an indicator of how indecisive he was. His men followed him blindly as millions of others would follow, leaping out of trenches in WWI and charging the enemy. Forget the machine gun, for this was how it had always, \\"been done\\".<br />Money could get you on the ship just as a fee could get you guided up Mount Everest in 1996. The results were in some cases the same. Optimism and the willingness to risk one's life were based not on known competence in the leader and the soundness of the plan, rather whether people liked one another. The fact that a Scott team member was effectively blind did not mean he should be excluded. The climber on Everest who became blind for a time as the result of a cornea operation that reacted poorly to the low pressure of Everest was an eerie parallel.<br />When the story is placed in its Historical context the work is very well done. If it is read without a thought to the time during which the expedition took place, I can see why some would be less than thrilled with the book. However when read in perspective it is a wonderful book.machine gun, for this was how it had always, \\"been done\\".<br />Money could get you on the ship just as a fee could get you guided up Mount Everest in 1996. The results were in some cases the same. Optimism and the willingness to risk one's life were based not on known competence in the leader and the soundness of the plan, rather whether people liked one another. The fact that a Scott team member was effectively blind did not mean he should be excluded. The climber on Everest who became blind for a time as the result of a cornea operation that reacted poorly to the low pressure of Everest was an eerie parallel.<br />When the story is placed in its Historical context the work is very well done. If it is read without a thought to the time during which the expedition took place, I can see why some would be less than thrilled with the book. However when read in perspective it is a wonderful book.	2001-05-14
2002802:US	53047425	R26FGKJJMCCXAA	0715620800	102094466	Mum and Mr. Armitage: Selected Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Stories	Ms. Beryl Bainbridge not only is a wonderful novelist, she also has shown she possesses a brilliant touch with short stories in her collection, \\"Mum And Mr. Armitage\\". The book is a collection of 12 short stories that are all wonderful studies of Human Nature that are often unsettling either due to what they reveal at their conclusion, or to the degree they let the reader fill in the final details and discomfort.<br />Short stories are wonderful in that they challenge the writer to communicate ideas in various lengths, however brief. Ms. Bainbridge not only sets up what seems to be a straightforward experience that may indeed be familiar, only to surprise, shock, or to demonstrate just how subtle her view of Human Behavior is observed and written. The stories may initially appear when read to seem perfectly appropriate, even familiar, that the Author is able to make detailed and definitive observations and conclusions that most people would at best only have a sense of, is the gift she exercises.<br />The story that is also the title of the book gives no hint at the ending. The story is about fun-loving types on Holiday that paint the horns of cattle in paint that glows at night, and other harmless fun. The final sentence will chill your spine. Truth is an oft repeated theme, however the manner in which it is presented is always unique, \\"The Worst Policy, and The Man That Blew Away\\", were excellent, the last remarkable.<br />Ms. Bainbridge is a wonderful writer you will not be disappointed.	2001-05-11
2003309:US	53047425	R1CV1KJRS93TJR	0140171916	389926335	The Van	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Arguably The Most Humorous	I had seen the screen versions of Roddy Doyle's, \\"The Commitments\\" and \\"The Snapper\\", prior to reading his written work. As I have now experienced his work in both mediums, its as funny on the page as it is on the screen. \\"The Van\\" is the last in this trilogy and it definitely focuses on the older of the generations. The movies actually enhanced the book as the actors were spectacular and the memories of their performances kept returning to mind.<br />The book is almost pure dialogue, and the humor will certainly leave you in pain. The issue of colorful language has been mentioned and while there is no denying its prevalence I don't believe there was any increase in this particular book. When his work is read every word is as clear as the reader's vocabulary, when on screen the accents often rendered dialogue difficult to decipher. The cadence of his writing is so well done, that even when spoken the humor works with a word or two missing, the structure implies the emotion.<br />Mr. Doyle also wrote, \\"The Woman Who Walked Into Doors\\", and this was the previous work of his that I had read. As a writer he has remarkable range as the previous work was dark and violent, and the humor too was black as pitch. It was not just sad it was unsettling. His ability to portray the Human Condition whether bleak or bright, or even with humor when it is all that keeps a character going, in simply brilliant.<br />If you have not read this man's work or seen the movies I would recommend both formats. His material is great regardless of the medium.	2001-05-11
2004039:US	53047425	R3V7JGQFL56E0V	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	1	15	22	N	N	I Wish It Were Shorter	I think I am going to cease reading books that have a Caravaggio, or in this case a portion of his work, on the cover. This is the second book I can recall that does this and it is spectacularly absurd. This is the type of work that gets published by accomplished, and established Authors only, for if this was written by a new Author it would never see copy number one. This is a bit of pretentious scribbling that is so vacuous and insipid that it must, \\"mean\\" something. Pour a gallon of paint on the floor of The Metropolitan, and hordes will coming running to seek meaning, likely with this book in their pocket.<br />Like the performance that the body artist offers in the book, were it not for the extremely short time this thing takes to read, people would walk out on the book as they walked out on her performance. Label me a cretin if you like but the idea that metaphorically, I hope, this woman creates paintings with her genitalia strikes me for what it is, garbage.<br />I enjoyed the jacket blurbs as they could be placed on virtually any book ever written. However they are very appropriate as they lack any form of specificity to this work, and that is as it should be.<br />However if a hallucinating widow who spends her time bleaching her body to that of an albino is of interest, by all means read and enjoy. I will pass, for the image of this aberration standing in a shower holding the trigger of a bottle of pine scented solvent to her head, and meditating upon the act is beyond my ability to take seriously.	2001-05-10
2006681:US	53047425	R3A4UU1WO0L0P3	0517702029	783394817	Teeth of the Dog	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Like Her Writing Better Than The Tale	Ms. Jill Ciment writes good dialogue, creates a very eccentric, quirky setting, and then populates it with some interesting players. Overall I thought the book was just an average to slightly above average read, but her style of writing surpasses the tale she tells this time around.<br />The setting for, \\"Teeth Of A Dog\\", is not so much a blend of cultures as the wreckage of what would be left after a variety of groups collided. With the cities, villages and the island upon which she sets her story, the population is more of an amalgam than of groups. She creates a place where the most extreme ends of the human spectrum should be set on removing the other, but they all seem to just get along either through necessity or apathy.<br />The couple of Helene and Thomas would be a bit odd if this had been set somewhere else. Even when the Author gives the background for the start of their relationship it's hard to tell if she is being serious or as outrageous as her island. Thomas is a renowned anthropologist whose fieldwork and studies are as clever as they are bizarre. The specific study the couple originally took together would probably make a great book in itself.<br />The character of Finster, an American dealing in dubious businesses through a haze of, \\"mariwana\\" is eccentric, quirky, and potentially dangerous when his hormones are guiding him. He does have his sympathetic/pathetic moments when the Author has him draw an outline of the woman he lusts after in the sand, and then has him lay next to it respectfully if not reverently.<br />The book begins rather uncertainly and develops until the circumstances lead to extremes that are so different from the balance of the book they read as if almost separate. Helene's reactions to the events that make her life skid toward madness on this island, that at it's best is a psychotic red light district and theme park was the strongest part of the book. As I mentioned the story was not a thrilling one, but this ladie's writing is excellent, and I look forward to reading more.is excellent, and I look forward to reading more.	2001-05-08
2007399:US	53047425	R144LEXVM31DF5	1583220399	239757734	Fake House: Stories	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Beyond Strange	I am sure there are readers that will enjoy, \\"Fake House\\", by Mr. Linh Dinh. To say that I enjoyed his work would be an exaggeration, but he had some thoughts that were cleverly expressed. However these were a very small portion of an otherwise tiresome collection of 21 stories that but for their subjects of deviant behavior detailed to a rather alarming degree would have been totally colorless.<br />The book's stories take place in two geographical locales just as the Author spent parts of his life in the United States and Vietnam. The Author has either chosen or has an eye for the more lurid aspects of human behavior; some would say the sicker side of life. This is all fine as far as it goes, and some pretty strange human behavior can be described in a manner that is interesting, or as with this book it can be written in a frat-house style that is meant for shock value.<br />I guess there must be an audience for this sort of writing, however unless you enjoy the bizarre to the point of being a touch nauseated, this is not for you.	2001-05-07
2008468:US	53047425	R39OGF9B6LD5Z4	0816519293	286446882	Men on the Moon: Collected Short Stories (Sun Tracks)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Twenty Six Stories Of Tragedy And Hope	Mr. Simon J. Ortiz's work, \\"Men On The Moon\\", is a collection of three earlier groups of his short stories. The tales are not just of contemporary Native American life but also of their History, and specifically their History with the, \\"Mericano\\".<br />The History of Native Americans cannot be written without the experience of loss, displacement, internment, and racism to mention just a few. The Native Americans are one of the Genocides that this Country is responsible for, and even though we who made read this History took no part in the atrocities, we also are the only ones who can make amends. Those responsible, the dead, are not terribly productive.<br />These stories are not complaints nor are they a cry for pity. They are each brief statements of fact that no matter how tragic maintain a sense of hope. Justice, fairness, acknowledgement of the crimes committed against them are perhaps some of the redress they illustrate/seek.<br />The book is not grim; it is full of irony, sardonic moments, and even humor. The short story that is also the title for the book is wonderful. An elderly man muses about the first information he sees on viewing his first TV. A series of questions follow with answers from a younger family member. If NASA had to answer these questions as put forward by this wise old sage, the groping for answers would be amusing, and the space program would be doubtful. I don't believe the Author was actually questioning the merits of the space program, rather illustrating how easily things may happen despite failing the most basic of queries.<br />There are stories of heroic service for the United States during her wars, and too there is a story of one man that went to prison rather than serve. I mention these as I found this book very balanced. This is not one Native American's list of complaints, rather a reasoned and balanced view of their History and what that History has wrought.<br />The book is great reading that communicates its message in an informal conversational way consistent with Native American Culture. It loses nothing to the extent its format is not structured in the traditional manner of, \\"scholarly\\", History. Nonetheless this man is a wonderful writer, a poet, role model, and eloquent representative for his people.informal conversational way consistent with Native American Culture. It loses nothing to the extent its format is not structured in the traditional manner of, \\"scholarly\\", History. Nonetheless this man is a wonderful writer, a poet, role model, and eloquent representative for his people.	2001-05-07
2008814:US	53047425	R2EWXMNA9RI1FI	0375420614	860699914	The Journey Home	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Beautifully Rendered	This is the first work I have read by. Mr. Olafur Johann Olafsson, however after reading, \\"The Journey Home\\", I look forward to whatever he presents next. The book is beautifully assembled but that does not keep it from portraying a complex woman who has bitter regrets, has suffered the horror of war, damaged familial relations, and at times almost self-imposed solitude.<br />The book is written in almost a series of notes, the protagonist actually carries a journal and mentions taking notes on her final trip home, however the book reads as if she always kept a diary. Not a day-to-day diary, but one that culls the highest and the lowest points of her life, and some that document her philosophy. The section that describes her thoughts on cooking and why a recipe should never be written down is simply brilliant. I would imagine those who cook would rarely take issue with her poetic thoughts.<br />The book is about a woman who is living out the estimated time of her remaining days. What was so enjoyable was that this did not portray some wistful mindless reminiscences, rather a woman who while admitting her mistakes, is basically content with the life she has lead. She is a confident woman and unusually so, for her thoughts of religion are the same as they have been for her life prior to illness, she does not make religion convenient, she remains true to what she has always been.<br />A very good book by an especially talented Author who wrote this volume from the perspective of a woman. I read a work by the Master Storyteller Mr. Roddy Doyle when he too wrote from a female's perspective, and Mr. Olafsson's work is every bit as good.	2001-05-06
2010534:US	53047425	R79K2Q2JULJP	0385488564	257749487	Lightning on the Sun: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Persistence Will Be Rewarded	This first and sadly last novel by the deceased Author Robert Bingham begins as an absolute chore to grind through. However if you stick out the first quarter or so you will be rewarded with some fine writing. It is sad that the drug that plays a role in this book caused the death of the man who wrote it, for there was a great Author being introduced.<br />The book's theme is not new and that is largely responsible for the slow start. I also don't know that readers are comfortable and familiar enough with Cambodia and its Politics for that aspect to be anything more than confusing. The story is dark, and if the word sardonic were the equivalent of a color, the end of the spectrum approaching black would be the reference point.<br />Asher who is our protagonist is probably the most annoying persona, think of a whining Nicholas Cage character. (It would make a great movie) His life has been one long series of almosts and not quites, and his scam to return to normalcy and home requires he use and abuse a variety of characters. And there is a wide array to enjoy. Ever had your luggage lost and wished you could take it out on the Airline. In one of the book's purely comedic moments an Asian Crime Boss does just that, and it is brilliant. Asher's sometimes soul mate, Harvard Graduate, and living on the fringe is very well done. What could have been a hopelessly clich&eacute; bimbette role, become a street-smart woman of letters who has a savage wit, and is said to be full of, \\"Verities\\". She also wields a MAG Light with finality. This is not the only character that starts with the expectation of being hopelessly derivative. The Author seemed to enjoy taking what others have done, and then reworked them to show just how well he could write.<br />The end of the book allows Asher a shot at redemption perhaps even nobility. However when he says, \\"I would prefer to stand\\", it's a powerful statement and a brilliant close to the book. I really do wish the Author were not consumed by that of which he wrote, he was clearly a man with a potentially great future of literature still before him.that of which he wrote, he was clearly a man with a potentially great future of literature still before him.	2001-05-04
2012376:US	53047425	R3JBVCZ5AU43NX	0671458582	207533320	The Age of Wonders	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Before And After	Mr. Appelfeld writes of life before and after the Holocaust had swept through Austria. \\"The Age Of Wonders\\", is the second of his works that appeared in this country following his first, \\"Badenheim 1939\\". This work like many that have followed appear to contain elements of Mr. Appelfeld's own remarkable story of survival, when he managed to survive as an 8 year old child his deportation to the labor camp in Transnistria.<br />The conflict is again explored amongst Jews prior to the war as to those Jews who were, \\"petit bourgeoisie\\", non-practicing, \\"intellectuals\\", and even a close friend that takes the dramatic step of circumcision as a man well into the middle of his years. The Father of the boy who's story we read is a writer of some renown that believes his Austrian Birth, education, and books published in German separate him from the other Jews he has so much contempt for. His friend that embarks on the mentioned operation is at once both ridiculed by the Father, and then is the object of a frantic effort to prevent him from allowing this act of, \\"disfigurement\\", to his person.<br />The primary Family all have their own issues with their religion, or what it, \\"should be\\". The Family deals not only with friends that choose their own way, but even the boys Aunt who he lives with as a child, eventually dies within the walls of a Catholic Monastery.<br />As he has in his other books the actual Holocaust itself is not written of. There is a single event when they are locked in a Synagogue, are packed onto a train, and then it is 30 years later and the protagonist is now a middle-aged man. Like the Author he has immigrated to Israel but comes home for reasons of his own. This final part of the work is fascinating as the Author brings the man home and it feels as though what he sees and does is real, and also that it may not be happening at all. The last comment is too extreme, for it does happen, it is just that the Author seems to give a transparency, to place a haze between his character and those he encounters, either from his life as a boy, or strangers who have inherited old ideas.<br />I have read many of Mr. Appelfeld's works and have found them to be some of the best literature on both the pre and post Holocaust experience. His survival was remarkable, it is little less than astonishing that he can not only write of this terrible era in History, but he can share it with all who are interested.e between his character and those he encounters, either from his life as a boy, or strangers who have inherited old ideas.<br />I have read many of Mr. Appelfeld's works and have found them to be some of the best literature on both the pre and post Holocaust experience. His survival was remarkable, it is little less than astonishing that he can not only write of this terrible era in History, but he can share it with all who are interested.	2001-05-03
2013219:US	53047425	R109MW7X6L4UEQ	0679736549	672492879	G.: A Novel	Books	4	17	21	N	N	This Earned The Prize	\\"G\\", by Mr. John Berger is the work of his that won the distinguished, \\"Booker Prize\\". What is perhaps more remarkable is that this was completed while he had published the first two, and was completing the final volume of his, \\"Into Their Labours Trilogy\\". This trilogy is one that I just read and I feel it is the best of his work that I have had the pleasure to read. Perhaps as it was broken into separate volumes and issued over 15 years made recognition of the trilogy impossible.<br />This work is different as we begin learning about, \\"The Protagonist\\" long before he has been born, and it is quite later on that he is finally referred to as, \\"G\\". The only time he actually takes his Father's name is when it is in the form of a falsified passport, which in the context of the story is as it should be. G has an extraordinarily eventful life, however it is devoid of a traditional Family. It is this method of his being raised that leads him to become a veritable predator of woman. But it is not just G who describes what he has planned and what he experiences, but also the women he pursues. However the Author that sets the stage for the events between G and his female friends offers another layer of insight.<br />The Author's voice is present and at times the dominant presence in the narrative. This book reminded me at times of Mr. Berger's works of non-fiction when he takes the senses that we use without thought and explains their workings so they become fascinating. He makes them this way not by explaining how they perform their tasks, but how they collect and interpret information well in excess of what we are consciously aware of.<br />I thought G personified an individual who was focused on one basic drive of all animals while being oblivious to what was really going on around him. Observations are made for him, as are the interpretations. This is a man who goes through momentous events in History with barely a nod in there direction, while obsessing himself with a planned affair, insult, or other ego satisfying triviality. His lack of perspective and his careless interest in what is important eventually gain his attention. And when this happens the irony is that the attention he receives he has done nothing to deserve other than to be blissfully ignorant.<br />I would have given this 5 stars, but after Mr. Berger's trilogy I cannot. This is still a splendid read by a master writer that should not be missed.lanned affair, insult, or other ego satisfying triviality. His lack of perspective and his careless interest in what is important eventually gain his attention. And when this happens the irony is that the attention he receives he has done nothing to deserve other than to be blissfully ignorant.<br />I would have given this 5 stars, but after Mr. Berger's trilogy I cannot. This is still a splendid read by a master writer that should not be missed.	2001-05-02
2013839:US	53047425	R3ED2IIV6EWA0P	0060196343	779468520	The Cloud Sketcher	Books	3	4	5	N	N	As High As They Can Be	Obsession, passions, and buildings all rise to their maximum intensity and height in the roaring 20's as depicted by Richard Rayner in his work, \\"The Cloud Sketcher\\". This is the first of his books that I have read, and while not among the best, I enjoyed it enough that I would read his next and possibly backtrack to some of his earlier work.<br />The story develops from two major events in the protagonist's young life. In the first he meets a young woman that becomes a life-long obsession, and the second is a vision of what he wants to accomplish with his life. The setting for the first part of the story is Finland as the Bolsheviks and their revolution damage it. By the time the fighting between the Whites and the Reds takes place, the protagonist has been horribly maimed in a childhood accident, he has lost his Mother, and then as a soldier he fights against the Reds which include his Father, and the Father knowingly like the son fights the other.<br />The consequences of the war bring about a set of contrary beliefs in outcomes of the war that continue to influence future events even if the most unlikely of stretched imagination must bring them to pass. One of these brings the central character that is now a young man, as well as an Architect to America in search not only of building his Skyscraper, but also of pursuing his obsession of a childhood love. His severing of his life and the people who inhabit it in Finland stretched my credulity in the story.<br />Once the story crosses the Atlantic the events continue to be implausibly convenient as well as improbable, and though he has left his Wife in Finland, events there continue to develop that will haunt him later in his life. When he saves the life of a man that will eventually preside over New York, virtually any obstacle can be overcome, and is routinely done so which detracts even further from the story's credibility.<br />As much as I complain about the contrived nature of the book's events it was an enjoyable, light, even if a less than fascinating read. Some books are meant to entertain, and this work lacked enough originality to demand close attention, and like the Skyscraper race for the tallest in the world, a given building, like the book's events, is surpassed by an improbably higher building just as events more implausible than there predecessor unfold.oyable, light, even if a less than fascinating read. Some books are meant to entertain, and this work lacked enough originality to demand close attention, and like the Skyscraper race for the tallest in the world, a given building, like the book's events, is surpassed by an improbably higher building just as events more implausible than there predecessor unfold.	2001-05-01
2014502:US	53047425	R2F9PHBC2IM23T	1565846281	711713891	I'm Gone: A Novel	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Not Everything Arrived Prior To Leaving	\\"I'm Gone\\", by Mr. Jean Echenoz is the first of his works that I have read. I always approach a translated book with some trepidation, as the work of the translator is critical. Not every word translates from one language to another, and this is even more prevalent when it comes to slang or language that has taken on day-to-day uses outside of a traditional dictionary. So when it comes time to comment you never really know how close to the original you have read. The hope is the Author has picked an excellent person for the translation, but I do not know of a place where translators are ranked.<br />In any event, \\"I'm Gone\\", is a book that is at times very clever and funny, but only occasionally. The plot was not unique and the Author tips his hand well before the book's end, giving the reader a decent chance of taking a step that removes any of the surprise when the plot clearly is trying for just that later in the book. I found much of the book to be too vague on the players, and on events that were anything but minor. Many of the characters had about as much that was interesting about them as the amount of luggage they moved with.<br />The entire legal aspect may make sense if there is something unique about The European Union beyond what the Author shares. However that portion of the book just seemed to make no sense, it was just another portion that happened in a bit of a haze as nothing prepares the reader. Finally, this is one of those works that ends almost in mid-sentence. I have always felt this was a very difficult way of ending a work, and that it seems more of an attempt at being stylish that substantive.<br />The Author did write some great material, however overall the book was a disappointment.	2001-05-01
2016491:US	53047425	R2OB8O0BV64NB2	0679737197	847984835	Lilac and Flag: Book Three of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Superlative Ending To The Triptych	The, \\"Into Their Labours\\" trilogy is among the most extraordinary work I have ever read. \\"Pig Earth\\" and \\"Once In Europa\\", which lead to Mr. Berger's finale of, \\"Lilac And Flag\\" were both brilliant, however the concluding volume is a work you will never forget. Every aspect of this final work is on a grand scale, the writer will lift your spirits and then pummel you with the physical and mental burden of a Requiem Mass. He celebrates, he condemns and redeems with equal intensity, and when the work finally ends you will have a new reference point for whatever reading will follow.<br />The first 2 installments take place in an Alpine Village that, per the Author, could be easily found many times in the same Alps that he describes. It is even suggested the locale is not unlike the Village that the writer calls his home. In this, the final work, he creates a fictional city, one that he controls, one that will not allow any familiarity to distract from his final act of recording the death of the way of life that starts as nearly idyllic, and ends with a form of redemptive enigma, but only after he has destroyed all that existed in the first two books. The decay and darkness are suffocating, the tale that he ends is infinitely displaced from its origins and is only brought back into contact with its predecessors by his final words, which explain everything, and confirm nothing.<br />I have never been one for creating lists in an attempt to enumerate the best of what I have had the privilege to read. This trilogy has changed that, for taken as one work it would likely occupy the premier spot, and if taken separately would all reside in the top 5. These writings are the result of 15 years of work and there is no way to categorize it in anything less than superlatives.	2001-04-30
2019499:US	53047425	R37IKZBTSK0OGQ	0679737162	107447310	Once in Europa: Book Two of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Exodus And Those Who Stayed	\\"Once In Europa \\", is the middle portion of Mr. Berger's, \\"Into Their Labours Trilogy\\". The first volume documented the peasant life of an Alpine Village in great detail including the slaughtering of animals that would cause a migration of meat-eaters to vegetarians if we all had to prepare our food from the field through to the kitchen. The trilogy is meant to document the disappearance of the peasant culture and it is this volume where events take hold that cause permanent irretrievable change.<br />Until the advent of large mechanized urban centers and the factories that required masses of people, the Alpine Culture was safe if for no other reason than the alternatives were virtually nonexistent. Human nature not only gravitates to those opportunities that offer a seemingly better life, it also tends to be blind to the negatives that are a part of this perceived improvement. At the outset of the new choices the ignorance of the first to leave is understandable, benefits are advertised, the dangers the changes also hold are not spoken of. So the youth, the future of any Society leave for promises of a very short workweek compared to the round the clock life that a farm requires. Youth too is drawn to all the supposed wonders of the Metropolis with visions more grand than the reality.<br />And the end begins, women looking for a better future marry outside the village, men too find spouses from the cities. Those that are left behind are the most determined to maintain their way of life, or they are the damaged ones as judged by society, women who are widowed with children, men who have been horribly maimed in the factories. Mr. Berger also records a story where the invasion of change takes a physical presence with a factory all but engulfing a man who refuses to part with the family farm despite the ever-increasing money the company offers for his land. This happens even as the whole area is poisoned by the pollution the factory emits, and the social destruction that arrives in the form of imported prostitutes for the workers who now live in communal barracks as opposed to their homes.<br />By the end of this second work it is hard to imagine what further fall awaits what has already happened to those who once lived a difficult but not necessarily more troublesome life. This book is sad and depressing. The final chapter will be pure tragedy.at arrives in the form of imported prostitutes for the workers who now live in communal barracks as opposed to their homes.<br />By the end of this second work it is hard to imagine what further fall awaits what has already happened to those who once lived a difficult but not necessarily more troublesome life. This book is sad and depressing. The final chapter will be pure tragedy.	2001-04-27
2019587:US	53047425	R2YVBOT3IWUPKU	0679737154	674287242	Pig Earth: Book One of the Into Their Labours Trilogy	Books	5	22	25	N	N	15 Year Writing Odyssey	\\"Pig Earth\\", by John Berger is the first of 3 books written over a fifteen-year period that taken together form the trilogy, \\"Into Their Labours\\". The setting for the first volume is a small village in the French Alps containing a collection of stories about the traditional life of peasants in their village. The books taken together offer a sweeping view of what has happened to this group of people, and as the Author notes, with small changes in detail these stories could be of peasants and their economy anywhere in the world.<br />The, \\"economy\\", of the peasant is the keystone not only of their monetary well being, it also is the foundation that supports their culture, their way of life. It is the means by which they are able to stay away from the cities and there industrialization, the village maintains the individual, the city destroys him or her. This first book shows the life of the Alpine Village intact even as it foreshadows its demise.<br />There are great ranges of stories that cover daily life, the 24-hour a day commitment that their lives require, and in the end a three-part story that illustrates what will be the downfall of the village. This three-part story is particularly fascinating for the Village disciplines one of its own that they have labeled with a superstitious moniker. When they carry out her isolation from the Village, she adapts, embraces ways different from those who have scorned her, and in the end the destruction of the Alpine Village and its way of life is gone, and those who live there do not yet realize it.<br />This book is an interesting hybrid that includes poetry interspersed among the traditional prose of a novel. I am not a reader of poetry so the only compliment I can pay this portion of Mr. Berger's work, is that I enjoyed it. He placed and wrote the poems in such a manner that they read without breaking the cadence of the larger work.<br />This work contains an element that the Author notes is a relic of the Nineteenth Century, even as he mourns the passing of the practice. In a section named, \\"Historical Afterword\\", the Author explains his book. What he says about his book I will leave to those who choose to read this man's work. However his Philosophy on what books have become is interesting and very accurate in my estimation as well. Many I know will find what he says offensive as they read that of which he speaks. He talks of how it is assumed that literature has elevated itself into pure art, however he believes it has degenerated into pure entertainment. Of one example he gives, is his feeling that Authors who believe their work of imagination to be all that a reader needs. He finds this attitude insulting to the, \\"dignity of the reader, the experience communicated, and the writer\\". He follows this with an essay on his book, which is brilliant, demonstrates the talent of this man not only as a writer but also as a pure thinker. If he had a bookstore I believe I would like it. Of course it would be small and would contain only books worth the time they take to read, and the expense they are to the reader. Some may find this statement arrogant, but for those whom do, I suggest you read his thoughts as many times as it takes to agree with his idea. For all this man advocates is quality work and Authors that respect their readers.<br />This trilogy took 15 years to accomplish and it has been awarded appropriately. Even while writing this he penned other works that won The Booker Award amongst others. This man is one of the great Authors living today; however if 15 years for three slender volumes seems absurd then try the alternative, alphabet books. A is for atrocious, B is for botched, C is for contrived, through Z is for zero, representing value received.y, even as he mourns the passing of the practice. In a section named, \\"Historical Afterword\\", the Author explains his book. What he says about his book I will leave to those who choose to read this man's work. However his Philosophy on what books have become is interesting and very accurate in my estimation as well. Many I know will find what he says offensive as they read that of which he speaks. He talks of how it is assumed that literature has elevated itself into pure art, however he believes it has degenerated into pure entertainment. Of one example he gives, is his feeling that Authors who believe their work of imagination to be all that a reader needs. He finds this attitude insulting to the, \\"dignity of the reader, the experience communicated, and the writer\\". He follows this with an essay on his book, which is brilliant, demonstrates the talent of this man not only as a writer but also as a pure thinker. If he had a bookstore I believe I would like it. Of course it would be small and would contain only books worth the time they take to read, and the expense they are to the reader. Some may find this statement arrogant, but for those whom do, I suggest you read his thoughts as many times as it takes to agree with his idea. For all this man advocates is quality work and Authors that respect their readers. <br />This trilogy took 15 years to accomplish and it has been awarded appropriately. Even while writing this he penned other works that won The Booker Award amongst others. This man is one of the great Authors living today; however if 15 years for three slender volumes seems absurd then try the alternative, alphabet books. A is for atrocious, B is for botched, C is for contrived, through Z is for zero, representing value received.	2001-04-26
2019704:US	53047425	RHDCI1ZC5H7TD	0312242034	475555013	The Industry of Souls	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Unusual Story Of Russias Gulags	\\"The Industry Of Souls\\", by Martin Booth is an unusual tale of one man's experience in Russia's penal system. The system may be more accurately defined as a method of gathering masses of slave labor, or, \\"Ants\\", as one character suggests. If you have only read non-fiction or historically based fiction of these camps, this book may surprise or perhaps even leave you feeling a bit incredulous. However this is fiction and should be taken as such.<br />Prior to Mr. Booth's work I had primarily either read of the Gulag System of camps while reading history of the era, or books specifically on the camps themselves. Aleksandr Isaevich Solzhenitsyn winner of the 1970 Nobel Prize wrote what can be considered the definitive and massive trilogy, \\"The Gulag Archipelago\\". He additionally wrote further fiction and historically based fiction on the topic and his personal experiences while imprisoned. Anatoli Rybakov also wrote a brilliant trilogy beginning with, \\"Children Of The Arbat\\".<br />This is the very first time I have read a work that takes the reader through the misery of 25 years as a prisoner above the Artic Circle digging coal, and then upon his release the same man adopts the Country that savaged his life. Fiction allows anything to be stated, and perhaps a story happened in a manner like you will read of here. I found the book to be excellent reading, however it was so contradictory to the History I have read it was hard for me to suspend disbelief.<br />This work was short listed for The Booker Prize and that is not an accomplishment to be taken lightly and neither is this book. I very much enjoyed the main character Alexander Bayliss, and to the extent a man or woman could endure what he did and find a sort of happiness in the later years of his life was noble, but again such a result would seem almost to be impossible. However, the village and the people who live there, the motive for his initial visit, and his remarkable decisions he is faced with at the book's end make for great reading.<br />The book is very, very good. However if you have read Historical accounts about these camps, the transition to less than horrific endings takes a bit of adjustment.nd make for great reading.<br />The book is very, very good. However if you have read Historical accounts about these camps, the transition to less than horrific endings takes a bit of adjustment.	2001-04-26
2021480:US	53047425	R253WINUGITKAU	0140255125	472868610	The Woman Who Walked into Doors	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Brilliant And Very Upsetting	Mr. Roddy Doyle is a brilliant writer, however his work, &quot;The Woman Who Walked Into Doors&quot;, is exceptional even for him. The majority of this work is written as a monologue recounting a 17 year marriage, however the voice is that of a woman, and for Mr. Doyle it demonstrates yet again how incredibly talented a writer he is.<br />You will find this work funny if you find sociopaths amusing. You will find it sexy if violence and rape are entertaining. There is a difference between dark humor and, &quot;the smile of a Nazi&quot;. If a joke or two resides in a book it does not qualify as a comedy, and if there is a memory or two of young love that can be called fond, it does not qualify as sexy. If a child is holding an ice cream cone and the contents fall to the ground, the look on the child's face can be called sad. When the question of, &quot;left or right&quot;, is not a choice of streets rather the side that sadistic cruelty is inflicted upon the person who is asked, to be judged sad is to read the judgment of an imbecile.<br />This book is as good as anything this writer has offered to readers, and is by far the darkest work of his I have read. To state this is a book about an abusive relationship is to qualify for making an understatement of epic magnitude. This book is as brutal to read, as the savagery committed within it is an everyday occurrence around the world. Even when a type of justice of finality is visited upon the sadist in this book it is for yet other actions of his.<br />I really thought I was beyond being upset by anything I would read. Mindless violence while a daily event is hardly surprising. Behavior that manages to disturb due to a writer's ability to truly deliver the pain, insanity, and premeditated cruelty is as important as the crimes committed are repulsive. That which Mr. Doyle writes about is common, that he is able to present what we have become numb to in a manner that is profoundly disturbing is extraordinary.	2001-04-25
2021481:US	53047425	R1B9JSA10SW0GH	0060194847	577422008	Big Red: Three Months On Board a Trident Nuclear Submarine	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Something Seems Amiss	I believe one of the most extraordinary accomplishments of the Author, Mr. Douglas C. Waller, is his gaining permission to spend the length of time that he did on a Trident. However based on my reading I would not bet heavily on how much of the entire cruise he actually spent on the ship. The book does not read as though he was onboard for the entire cruise. I thought there were far too few details about what he experienced that would seem to be essential to communicating to other civilians what life on board The Nebraska is like. Where did he sleep for 3 months, how was he affected mentally/emotionally by the strain that even the most experienced of the crew endure every time they go out? I rarely felt as though I was reading an eyewitness account. This book seems to hit some highlights, reviews some major events very briefly (like the refit), and just does not read, as a first person account should. I suppose it's possible the Navy restricted what he was allowed to divulge, as he certainly cannot have the security clearances the crew requires, but definitive time he spent on the boat would not seem to qualify as a secret.<br />This is not like the books and movies, &quot;Red October, and Crimson Tide&quot;, however a good deal of dialogue during a missile firing simulation lent credibility to the latter of the two movies I mentioned. This is fairly dry reading unless you choose to really read about what this 1.8 Billion dollar weapon is capable of, the complexity that is almost beyond comprehension, and the fact that this ship that would stretch higher than The Washington Monument is crewed by only 162 men with an average age of 27. The age may seem surprisingly low, but after you meet members of the crew, I did not find one who did not appear very highly capable despite their sometimes-young age.<br />There were some issues I enjoyed reading about and whether they were or were not possible and why. And even if theoretically possible why the likelihood of their happening is essentially zero. Can a captain fire missiles without the concurrence of The President? How many people must actively participate in a launch that is sanctioned, how do those who do so feel about what they may someday be required to do? Is it in fact possible for a ship to be without the ability to communicate with Washington? And finally when the seemingly endless steps that are required to authenticate and prepare for a launch are complete, what discretion does the Captain have if he has any at all?<br />The discussion on gay males serving aboard the ship was the most intelligent I have read. Politicians who know less about Submarine life than they do about most other topics they make decisions about also were not spouting it. The same can also be said as to the validity and the practicality of women serving on a Nuclear Submarine. Neither issue is without their problems, however to read intelligent solutions as opposed to moronic declarations from Politicians on photo opportunities was a pleasant change.<br />The passage in the book that is the most riveting is the simulated missile launch. If you can imagine the launch preparations as real, and imagine what is going on with the people participating, or perhaps how you might feel, this book is as intense as any imagined novel.<br />A good book for those who want to know more, but perhaps do not know better. This is a light treatment of what goes on at times, not a diary of a three-month voyage.ppening is essentially zero. Can a captain fire missiles without the concurrence of The President? How many people must actively participate in a launch that is sanctioned, how do those who do so feel about what they may someday be required to do? Is it in fact possible for a ship to be without the ability to communicate with Washington? And finally when the seemingly endless steps that are required to authenticate and prepare for a launch are complete, what discretion does the Captain have if he has any at all?<br />The discussion on gay males serving aboard the ship was the most intelligent I have read. Politicians who know less about Submarine life than they do about most other topics they make decisions about also were not spouting it. The same can also be said as to the validity and the practicality of women serving on a Nuclear Submarine. Neither issue is without their problems, however to read intelligent solutions as opposed to moronic declarations from Politicians on photo opportunities was a pleasant change.<br />The passage in the book that is the most riveting is the simulated missile launch. If you can imagine the launch preparations as real, and imagine what is going on with the people participating, or perhaps how you might feel, this book is as intense as any imagined novel.<br />A good book for those who want to know more, but perhaps do not know better. This is a light treatment of what goes on at times, not a diary of a three-month voyage.	2001-04-25
2022399:US	53047425	R1W462MIXPJNXU	0375411291	138279910	Eclipse	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Another Enigma	While I have yet to read all of his work Mr. Banville's novels seem to fall in to two general areas, those that are complex but understandable, and those that no two people will agree on anything other than the most general of thoughts. His most recent work, \\"Eclipse\\", definitely falls into the latter category, and while some criticize the apparent lack of structure, others applaud it.<br />Many Authors' work is often explained as being like the work of another writer, the, \\"it tastes like chicken syndrome\\". I cannot remember a parallel being drawn to this man's work and there is good reason for this, his writing is as original as one can read despite the millions of volumes that have gone before. He does not have a formulaic style that he follows like many contemporary writers, he is not the sort that fills in the blanks or connects the dots until all is finished or clear. Each of his books is written as the story they tell and the characters that inhabit them require. Moving from one novel to the next a reader could be easily convinced they are reading an altogether different writer.<br />Much like his work, \\"The Book Of Evidence\\", the story unfolds from one primary viewpoint. That the view is from a man enduring a breakdown of sorts is apparent, however Mr. Banville gives us an actor in a state of decay so that we read of a breakdown that is assembled from his 30 years of the characters he has played. Add to this the corporeal players in the actor's life, a cast of others, ghosts, demons, real or conjured, a difficult marriage, and finally a daughter who is handicapped, but perhaps a savant. And the result is a very dense work that gives meaning to the word eclipse whether as one passing another, or the infinite degrees from an eclipse so partial, to darkness absolute and final.<br />I found the cover art interesting as well although you have to open the jacket fully to appreciate the imagery that may or may not be there. A man is pictured at the apex of a path between two homes. Strong wind tears his hat or perhaps his mind away while the single candle he holds is impervious to the force of the wind he must lean in to. And in the far upper right hand corner there is...something, I have not a clue what, and if anyone decides please let me know.<br />I have grown to be a great admirer of this man's work, I don't presume to absorb all he intends for his readers, but the process is a great deal of fun.etween two homes. Strong wind tears his hat or perhaps his mind away while the single candle he holds is impervious to the force of the wind he must lean in to. And in the far upper right hand corner there is...something, I have not a clue what, and if anyone decides please let me know.<br />I have grown to be a great admirer of this man's work, I don't presume to absorb all he intends for his readers, but the process is a great deal of fun.	2001-04-24
2023912:US	53047425	R3IV8YH7I1NAWO	0385499272	535760229	Provinces of Night	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Second Effort Is Even Better	\\"Provinces Of Night\\", is the second work offered by Mr. William Gay. His first work was very good, however with, \\"Provinces Of Night\\", he has become an even more compelling Author. His first work began with a massive explosion, this time it is more of an emotional shudder that while a bit lighter on the fireworks is quite possibly more disturbing to read.<br />The issue I mention is offered in the form of a Prologue and while you expectantly read to find the dramatic link, this element like others in the story are more like consistent backdrops to the book. These elements play their part and many times a prominent one, however they do so gradually, their prominence steadily draws more importance to the issue but there is no eureka like moment. I liked the style of this story, as it developed at its own pace, it was not a set piece structured to meet a formula.<br />The characters of this book were many and very well done. The book does primarily surround the various immediate and extended clan of the Bloodworth Family, however there are several other players that round out the cast. There are characters like,\\" Itchy Mama\\", that provide for some of the best and funniest dialogue in the book. There is a moment she offers Fleming a flask of Whiskey, the comments that accompany the offer are outrageously funny. That moment is a rarity in that I would love to see it on the screen. Others like, \\"Albright\\", does not have the genius his name suggests but he is one of the more colorful and funny players in this tale. He also is one of the few who bring some sense of responsibility, or as the book phrases it, \\"honor\\", to the storyline.<br />This is however, \\"Fleming Bloodworth's\\" story. The youngest and best hope for the future of this Family line resides with him. He is one of many from this Family but he is the one who eventually must make decisions that no person should be forced to make, however when he does the events seem to propel him more quickly and more definitely in a direction that will change the Family's History, and end what the Bloodworths at this end of Tennessee have fashioned from history.<br />Literally flowing in the background is a massive wartime project of the TVA that will forever alter this piece of the state. I don't know what the Author intended this to symbolize as it runs the range from a Biblical like destructive cleansing, to a redemption, and even of tasks left uncompleted as roads that once directed the flow of life are now stunted. Even the dead are no longer fixed as they become mobile in the most pragmatic of ways.<br />If this Author continues to improve with every book he writes, his books will be in print a century from now.n a direction that will change the Family's History, and end what the Bloodworths at this end of Tennessee have fashioned from history.<br />Literally flowing in the background is a massive wartime project of the TVA that will forever alter this piece of the state. I don't know what the Author intended this to symbolize as it runs the range from a Biblical like destructive cleansing, to a redemption, and even of tasks left uncompleted as roads that once directed the flow of life are now stunted. Even the dead are no longer fixed as they become mobile in the most pragmatic of ways.<br />If this Author continues to improve with every book he writes, his books will be in print a century from now.	2001-04-23
2023916:US	53047425	R4FLFDRJ1BURO	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	35	44	N	N	The First Time You Have Been Here	To claim a given book is an entirely new experience is probably inaccurate; too many books have been written. However there are some works that are such a unique read that they come as close to unique as a work can. \\"Perdido Street Station\\", is such a book, and the Author China Mieville is just such an Author. How this person finds time to produce a work such as this and read for his PhD at the London School Of Economics is pretty impressive in itself. You can also put aside any preconceived notion of what Economists may look like, for Mr. Mieville is as far from Alan Greenspan in appearance as one can get.<br />I cannot classify this book with any other that I have read. To illustrate the unusual place this book describes and the apparent contradictions that abound there is this. If you can imagine a society that has analog computers that have gained sentience but then use black powder flintlock guns as weapons, you are on your way. If you believe art is something that originates and flows from the mind, this Author has an artist you will never forget. The book is large in size, scope, and complexity, yet it all works it all makes sense.<br />There is a character that has committed a crime for which he seeks to recover from. The crime is not unique; however the law that codifies what he has done is extraordinary. Simply stated this individual committed, \\"choice theft\\". I don't know if there are two words, or a phrase of any length that describes virtually every crime that is perpetrated, in this fictional world, or in ours. It is not just a clever phrase; it governs an entire society through those two words with variables for emphasis as the only modifiers.<br />The Author's world is inhabited with enigmatic species, humans, and Re-mades. The last of the three may seem easily defined, but to make such a presumption would be wrong. Re-mades are the result of need, criminal punishment, and sometimes for the deranged a method of self-expression. These are not the, \\"skin-jobs\\", of, \\"Blade Runner\\", fame, nor are they clones. They are about as far from clones as is imaginable.<br />The conflict the book deals with is not unique, however it is delivered in such a manner as to deserve the distinction of being referred to as such. The world of New Crobuzon must deal with the consequences of one man's actions to reverse the results of a punishment. Or perhaps it is the result of more traditional faults not limited to the entirely human world. However you choose to read and see this dark place as you travel through, \\"Canker Wedge, Spit Bazaar, The Glass House, The Rim, Mog Hill, and Bonetown&quot;, the adventure will become your own. And if you happen upon the, \\"River Gross Tar\\", well that will be for you to deal with in your mind's eye.<br />A remarkable piece of fiction that is filled with social commentary, the structure of society, and yes, even a bit of economics.in-jobs\\", of, \\"Blade Runner\\", fame, nor are they clones. They are about as far from clones as is imaginable.<br />The conflict the book deals with is not unique, however it is delivered in such a manner as to deserve the distinction of being referred to as such. The world of New Crobuzon must deal with the consequences of one man's actions to reverse the results of a punishment. Or perhaps it is the result of more traditional faults not limited to the entirely human world. However you choose to read and see this dark place as you travel through, \\"Canker Wedge, Spit Bazaar, The Glass House, The Rim, Mog Hill, and Bonetown&quot;, the adventure will become your own. And if you happen upon the, \\"River Gross Tar\\", well that will be for you to deal with in your mind's eye.<br />A remarkable piece of fiction that is filled with social commentary, the structure of society, and yes, even a bit of economics.	2001-04-23
2024524:US	53047425	R2C04586E8GGSC	1582430845	357071608	Matters of State: A Political Excursion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	62 Years Of Wisdom	Mr. Philip Hamburger (per the book jacket) has been a staff writer for The New Yorker since 1939 or 62 years. Writing for The New Yorker is an accomplishment in itself, I have read of no one who has written for the New Yorker for the duration that Mr. Hamburger has. After all these decades one would expect that he would be a man of strong opinions which would entrench him at some point on the Political Yardstick. Any concern about partisanship is dismissed when he scorns the concepts of left and right, and suggests, &quot;common sense, decency, and the better angels of our nature&quot;, should be what governs the thoughts of people.<br />The Author is remarkable for many accomplishments, however his history of having attended every Inauguration since FDR'S First, and missing only FDR'S Third and Fourth is remarkable. These events serve as milestones in his life as he viewed his first from the branches of a tree, and as time passed became a guest at a variety of distinguished functions that he tends to bring down to earth and into focus.<br />Readers will come away from reading the wisdom this man has accumulated over half a century with different experiences based on what he chose to include in this book, and how he treated the topics. He is a remarkable writer that would attend and observe and then write of his encounters with Washington's major events, or a private gathering with a Mayor, and then write a reflection of the topic and its relevance without discoloring it with personal prejudice. He is clearly an admirer of some of his subjects such as Judge Learned Hand, however after you read his 1946 story about this jurist and orator, you too may find you have a new individual you admire, and have been introduced to a speech that is as powerful as any given in our Country's History.<br />This is the Author's 8th book and I hope there are more. Perhaps a collection of his work will be forthcoming, for if it is all as good or nearly good as this small collection, a marvelous piece of history it would make.marvelous piece of history it would make.	2001-04-22
2025336:US	53047425	R183HN3KQNPBTP	0684854368	140570038	Martyrs' Crossing: A Novel	Books	4	12	16	N	N	You Read But Dont Always Feel	On the jacket a comment is made that the Author takes what are normally, \\"journalistic subjects, and shows their internal life\\". This is a goal difficult to achieve however noble, with a subject that has been presented so vividly and visually for decades. I enjoyed the book but I did not feel this particular point was reached, and again that may have been due to the storyline unfolding a tale that while terrible is nauseatingly familiar. The incident in this book is tragic and graphic, and as pathetic as it may be the images are as familiar in Oklahoma as they are in this Checkpoint locale. I am not suggesting they are a daily occurrence here as they are elsewhere, just that people's attitudes toward those they view as different are the norm not the exception. Those same people are willing to harm other groups with the same ease with which they hate.<br />The violence that consumes those people and the lands they dispute are in a continuous loop of violence like other perpetual fights elsewhere in the world. The more disturbing part of this story is the degree to which the violence is manipulated, the citizens on either side used and their feelings motivated/created through propaganda and truths that are omitted. The Author also took a gutsy and praiseworthy stance of the hypocrisy of religion, the tool it has become, and in some cases how irrelevant it has made itself. In one part of the book she focuses on religious proclamations by the highest of their religion and shows them for what they are, totally meaningless and bereft of any value. As a counterpoint to the story she is relating I thought that worked very well.<br />Ms. Amy Wilnetz has taken both sides to task in, \\"Martyrs' Crossing\\". And while it would be foolish to expect this book will change what we see on CNN routinely, optimists can hope that each time the story is told, the effort made, some progress will be gained as well.	2001-04-22
2026642:US	53047425	R1MK4Q9SR77CVY	0446392537	182164322	Book of Evidence	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Needs To Be Placed Back Into Print	I have read and commented upon the majority of Mr. John Banville's novels. Without exception they each have provided unique reading experiences. &quot;The Book Of Evidence&quot;, is not currently available and that is a loss for readers. It is certainly worth hunting down at the library or as a used book, as it again demonstrates the range this Author is capable of writing within.<br />Virtually the entire work is in the first person and takes the form as testimony, or perhaps a confession. The crime that is the subject of the tale is particularly gruesome, and like the events before and after the crime is shared in great detail. The word sardonic has been used to describe the character and his actions, and while the word is appropriate it is not all encompassing. Mr. Banville has not brought a colorless perpetrator to our attention, rather one who is articulate, witty, and pathetic as he is inept at his crime. Nothing is simple with this man even his name is an event, Frederick Charles St John Vanderveld Montgomery!<br />There are digressions from the main topic of his crime and they range from the amusing to that of approaching intoxicating. There is a point when the subject focuses on a Dutch Painting. What begins as an aside turns into a small tale of its own as the image and the circumstances that he believed brought about its creation are shared.<br />When the end of the book arrives Mr. Banville provides a flexible conclusion allowing the reader to define what he or she believes is the truth. The testimony appears straightforward, however by the end what portions of his confession are written, spoken, or recreated in his own mind are anything but clear.<br />This is another great piece of writing by an Author who does not seem to have the wide audience his work deserves.	2001-04-20
2028089:US	53047425	R79TQSS6Z0OY9	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Write What You Know	One of the basic tenets of writing is to, &quot;write what you know&quot;. Mr. Carr's previous books may have been excellent, however I have not read them. But this book is clearly a book this Author should never have written, and even after reading what could be called an, &quot;apologia&quot;, at the end, this is still nothing more than a waste of reader's money and time. Perhaps some allowance should be made for the fact that this book appears to have been created by committee and was not a project Mr. Carr initiated on his own. With the success he has had the question of why he would place his name on this pointless novel is beyond my understanding.<br />The future with a destroyed/badly-damaged world is about as tired an idea for a book as there is. Nothing in this book is examined in detail because there was absolutely no effort expended on making the endless contraptions he names believable. I am not suggesting one should have left this book and gone looking for a dealer that sells what is a lousy derivative of a Jules Verne Vessel. However, &quot;suspension of disbelief&quot;, is as critical as it is basic to any fiction especially Science Fiction.<br />The military character (I wish I was making this up) is &quot;Colonel Justus&quot;. I know, it made me nauseous too. The craft they travel in is absurd, and only gets more so when you spend more time imagining what this joke would look like. This transport breaks known laws of physics, or has overcome what were thought to be impossible scientific barriers. How, who knows? We are only told what it does, and when the writing is at it's laziest we get one word explanations, &quot;resin&quot;.<br />The female character should be offensive to almost any woman who reads this, as this part super-hero part tart dashes through the plot either placing her cat suit on or taking it off. The book's references to actual people of History are so bad it's hard to describe. Perhaps to say it is almost as bad as the references the Author makes to True Historical Events puts this nonsense into perspective.<br />There are also the most blatant racist comments made regarding various groups and cultures. If only for this final fact alone, this book has deservedly earned the scorn written about it.<br />Books are too expensive, and time is too valuable to waste on trash that is written for reasons known only to the Author. If his previous books are as good as his fans say, by foisting this arrested adolescent stupidity on them he has shown the same disdain for them as for new readers, and the targets of abuse in his book.the Author makes to True Historical Events puts this nonsense into perspective.<br />There are also the most blatant racist comments made regarding various groups and cultures. If only for this final fact alone, this book has deservedly earned the scorn written about it.<br />Books are too expensive, and time is too valuable to waste on trash that is written for reasons known only to the Author. If his previous books are as good as his fans say, by foisting this arrested adolescent stupidity on them he has shown the same disdain for them as for new readers, and the targets of abuse in his book.	2001-04-19
2028864:US	53047425	R3RUC8K21JOHAY	0802133576	741068837	The Healer (Appelfeld, Aharon)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Compendium	I have now read a good portion of this Author's novels, and while not qualified to comment on them from a theological perspective, I continue to find his work some of the finest writing on individuals or on Humanity that I have read.<br />Mr. Appelfeld's novel, &quot;The Healer&quot;, contains elements that I feel were greatly expanded upon in his other works. His books, &quot;Unto The Soul&quot;, &quot;To The Land Of The Cattails&quot;, and &quot;The Conversion&quot;, all came to mind during my reading. These elements were similar but not repetitive, the Author was at times giving an alternative perspective on an issue that he examined from a different viewpoint before. If you have read the other works I mention you will feel a familiarity with the circumstances and issues he deals with here.<br />This is not a post Holocaust Novel rather it is more akin to, &quot;To The Land Of The Cattails&quot; in time. Religion plays a central role as it always does and here he again is dealing with regret and guilt with several characters. This time it is not as clearly portrayed as a conversion, or a total void where faith would normally reside. The Father in the story is constantly examining what he could have done, and how those results would have allowed him to change the present. The character ruminates on the type of Jew he was as a scholar and the effects it had upon his life. This is a man who has no use for religion, or who buries his remorse for abandoning it well.<br />Religion splits the Family when the Wife and Daughter seek to become what they have shunned. They travel to the, &quot;Healer&quot;, in a remote isolated locale in search of faith or perhaps what they hope faith will gain them. This spilt amongst Family members becomes much more than theological, and Mr. Appelfeld brings the complexity of his characters to the reader without making the issues clear for a simpleton, he never stoops, rather he pays tribute to his readers.<br />The bulk of the story takes place on an isolated mountain, and inside an inn, however as the story is brought to a close the journey the Father takes progresses, and the events that journey foreshadows with little subtlety, is as powerful as any of the other works of his I have read.akes place on an isolated mountain, and inside an inn, however as the story is brought to a close the journey the Father takes progresses, and the events that journey foreshadows with little subtlety, is as powerful as any of the other works of his I have read.	2001-04-19
2036069:US	53047425	R3KDENQC43WBSX	067089270X	342087812	The Burning of Bridget Cleary	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Micro History	This is the first time I have seen the term that titles these comments. The other term that may be a bit too specific is Cultural Biography, but as this book does not focus on a individual, is perhaps less accurate. Any readers looking for sensationalized tabloid nonsense should look elsewhere for this is a scholarly work that uses the death of Mrs. Cleary as a centerpiece around which is built the history of the time, the politics of The Home Rule Bill, as well as the entire culture surrounding Fairy belief. This is about why this death took place and how varied and complex were the factors that made the event possible. This is a serious study of a late nineteenth century event, so while there are pictures, you will find none that exploit the victim. This again is another indicator of the serious nature of the work as opposed to prurient trash.<br />Ms. Angela Bourke did a remarkable job of communicating an event that done with less skill would have been miserable. The Author had to make sense of a Catholic Priest performing a Mass during this crime, and then behavior that most would consider bizarre that bracketed the clerical visits. She shares the significance of earthen structures as old as 1500 years that to this day play a role in Irish Life. As micro implies if an issue was raised it was explained in detail. Religion versus Superstition, the use of certain words and phrases during trial proceedings that were meant to link The Irish with the, \\"savages\\", of Africa so as to raise the question in the newspapers for months as to the Irish peoples ability, their fitness for Home Rule was debated.<br />There are also some fascinating background pieces that include Oscar Wilde, and the Marquess of Queensberry. How their legal fisticuffs (pun intended) were relevant again to Home Rule, and the case that is the subject of this book. The book is exceedingly well written, meticulously documented, and is a tribute to the craft of writing good History. I hope Ms. Bourke pens many more.<br />Great read!ens many more.<br />Great read!	2001-04-12
2036552:US	53047425	R15UY28PROB7B2	0060394072	745283847	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	3	46	61	N	N	From 3 Months To 73 Years Old	Mr. Lou Michael and Mr. Dan Herbeck have written a well-documented History in, \\"American Terrorist\\". Unfortunately the book is not a compelling read, and its claims of offering dramatic new information is hyperbolic at best. For all of the hours they spent with Mcveigh the quantity of unbroken commentary from their subject is minimal. There is no first confession, and to the extent there is new information it must be quite subtle or apparent to only a devout follower of this case. It seems odd that the most lengthy expression of thought about Mcveigh and his actions take the form of an, \\"Appendix B\\", when Ted Kaczynski, known for his mail bombings over many years, writes with as much insight into Mcveigh as any other commentator in the book.<br />When I purchased this book the clerk was surprised, as he had thought the bookstore had banned the sale of this book. While the store I patronized obviously did not, evidently some stores have. To ban the sale of this book would almost require that it not be read prior to the decision not to sell it. This book does document a horrible event, however the book is hardly controversial, competent journalists wrote it, and as far as bringing attention to Mcveigh it tells the story between the covers of a book, which is entirely optional as to its consumption. The same cannot be said for current efforts to televise his execution. If his death by lethal injection will bring closure or comfort to the survivors and their families they certainly should have the right to attend. However making it into a media circus would truly plumb the depths of a sick voyeurism that the mass media would be thrilled to feed.<br />Mcveigh's crime against innocents is disturbing by its very nature; it does not require any misleading comparisons to be drawn to sensationalize it. The Authors lose credibility when they start making comparisons between the physical weight of the truck bomb, and the weight of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. As measured only by what they weigh the comparison is absurd and intentionally misleading. Had a bomb with two thirds of the destructive power of the Hiroshima Atomic Bomb been used, not only the Federal building, but also most of Oklahoma City would have ceased to exist. There would also be no pending execution, as McVeigh would have vaporized as well.<br />If you wish to be shocked this book is not for you. With the exception of the crime he will most probably be executed for, Mcveigh is disturbingly normal. Take away the bombing, and his life has been lived hundreds of thousands of times. Unfortunately Mcveigh committed a horrible crime, but as a subject of a 400-page book, he just is not very interesting much less thought provoking. In some of the prison photographs he appears to be a young teenager, Charles Manson makes an impression, Mcveigh just seems to exist, barely.<br />What was interesting is generally found later in the book when the topic of why this particular act has been decreed so evil and demonic. Compare this event to The World Trade Center Bombing or Pan Am Flight 103. The book begs the question, as Ramzi Yousef who is serving 240 years for the bombing in New York was one of 4 prisoners in Mcveigh's cellblock in Colorado. Yousef killed 5 and injured 1,000, Kaczynski, \\"The Unabomber\\", killed 3 and injured 10 over a 17-year period.<br />I started the book with the thought that an American did this to his own citizens at an unlikely geographical venue, and that was the fact that caused such outrage. Having read the book the issue that is constantly repeated from all sides is the fact of the Day Care Center in the building. The bombing was mass murder and the ages that title these comments express the age range of the victims. Counter factual History is always fascinating; what if there was no day care facility, what if he bombed the building at night when it was vacant?<br />The most disturbing commentary in the book is from former FBI Agent Clinton R. Van Zandt,now retired, who was the negotiator in Waco Texas in The Branch Davidians standoff. When you compare what Mcveigh's goals were to the changes some believe Mcveigh did effect, that is when the story got interesting, and very disturbing.<br />Unfortunately the final point I mention came 9 pages from the book's end.now retired, who was the negotiator in Waco Texas in The Branch Davidians standoff. When you compare what Mcveigh's goals were to the changes some believe Mcveigh did effect, that is when the story got interesting, and very disturbing.<br />Unfortunately the final point I mention came 9 pages from the book's end.	2001-04-12
2039684:US	53047425	RSZDQVTAQ4282	1878448935	46581154	Mary McGreevy (Macmurray & Beck Fiction)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Note Of Caution, But Spectacular Writing	The only caution is for Devout Catholics or practitioners of the Faith that do not believe the church can be questioned much less be wrong, and definitely not for people that don't see humor in religious debate. If this does not stop you from picking up this book, you are in for a wonderful tale. If you are reading this having read, \\"Celibates And Other Lovers\\", by the same Author Walter Keady, the fun will be all the more enjoyable.<br />Miss. Mcgreevy is as unconventional a woman as you can imagine for a small Irish Town in the early 1950's. In fact as it is pointed out, were the time a century or so sooner a wooden stake and flames would have been waiting for her. In this case her trials are confined to the Human Nature of a small town, and while infuriating at times it is generally shown to be what it is, much ado about nothing. For there are very few who have any direct involvement at all, and with one painful exception neither Mary nor anyone else is victimized by her. The pain comes from those in the town who know nothing, and are willing to put careers and reputations at risk for their own amusement, which they of course cloak in piety they feel they so surely posses, and in truth are totally bereft of its influence. They are not alone as the higher-level executives of the Church have made their mark and have climbed the ecclesiastical organizational chart with the same-clouded self-view.<br />The Author does a great job of running multiple threads that have Rome happily dispensing annulments, excusing those who have taken perpetual vows, and then turning to the day to day practices that shows the hypocrisy that Miss. Mcgreevy is only to happy to point out. At times her debates with a Priest are a riot, as her knowledge of Aristotle, Sarte, and a variety of male Old Testament figures, \\"who begat children\\", outside of matrimony makes for brilliant dialogue.<br />They are many who will take issue with the Author's views and those characters that he uses to express them. In so far as the book clashes with their held beliefs they have every right to do so. However when the Author brings this book to its resolution, and I do mean the final sentences, he leaves you with some huge philosophical/theological issues that are as deserving of attention today as they were the first time they were questioned.<br />An absolutely wonderful tale written by an Author with an ear for dialogue, a pen that holds a bit of controversy, and a nimble mind of depth that makes the debates valid.ress them. In so far as the book clashes with their held beliefs they have every right to do so. However when the Author brings this book to its resolution, and I do mean the final sentences, he leaves you with some huge philosophical/theological issues that are as deserving of attention today as they were the first time they were questioned.<br />An absolutely wonderful tale written by an Author with an ear for dialogue, a pen that holds a bit of controversy, and a nimble mind of depth that makes the debates valid.	2001-04-09
2044957:US	53047425	R1PZY3GQ50K4I	0684854147	379827422	The Daughters of Simon Lamoreaux: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Pass Without A Pause	Even with the allowance that the book I read prior to this was one of the better mysteries I have enjoyed, this is simply a terrible book. \\"The Daughters Of Simon Lamoreaux\\", by Mr. David Long had some interesting contemporary methods of relating the story and they were used to maintain a level of expectation that never even failed because it never even happened. This is a book with a beginning and a middle, it is a book with some well developed characters, it is also a book that cannot even be described as not ending, rather it was not finished.<br />I liked the method of electronic mail that was used to bring the characters together. Not just because it is contemporary, but as a conduit it allows for a great deal of control by the participants. What they share and when they share it is up to them, and when informational exchange takes place, conventional restraints are absent.<br />A young woman goes missing, the narrative jumps ahead 24 years, and the story that goes nowhere begins. Until the end approached the only bothersome issue for me was the endless monologues either written or spoken. This issue can be attributed to character formation so it is easy to let it pass. What is not acceptable much less even reasonable is an Author who writes one long sucker punch and gives his readers nothing. Nothing interesting, nothing plausible, nothing sympathetic, he simply created a void and wrapped a book jacket around it.<br />This is the first work I have read by this Author, and there will not be a second.	2001-04-04
2045378:US	53047425	R38RJ9GVX9UIC0	0151006091	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Extremely Well Done	The Golden Dagger Award first introduced me to the work of Michael Dibdin and his, \\"Aurelio Zen\\" series. For the second time this award has brought about another new Author who writes a phenomenal tale. \\"A Small Death In Lisbon\\", by Robert Wilson is not his first work, but unfortunately is the only writing of his available in the US at present. This book should change that status.<br />This work does not just shift between 2 points in time; rather it brings forward one storyline from decades ago to mesh perfectly with the second storyline, which is contemporary. The initial flare is that there is no hint as to how these two stories and their characters will ever mesh much less come together in a beautifully crafted and simple penultimate end. The final series of pages reveal an incredibly complex ending that is as true and clever as it is intricate.<br />Both storylines contain extreme examples of human behavior that might be too graphic for some. I would compare it to the series centering on Hannibal Lechter, the circumstances are at times extreme and very unpleasant, but they are not gratuitous. The book unfolds from Nazi Germany and wartime Lisbon, all the way to Lisbon, as it exists in a contemporary time. The political upheavals and the groups that cause and enforce them are at times brutal, but it is as it took place when Historical Events are included.<br />This is a very good tale whether mysteries are normally your choice or not. The book is very well written, extremely complex while never contrived or clich&eacute;, and the Author does not show his last card until almost the last few paragraphs.<br />Unconditionally Recommended!	2001-04-04
2045386:US	53047425	R3QO4E6SNDHIXX	1559705523	34478446	Mrs. Shakespeare: The Complete Works	Books	1	7	21	N	N	Why	Why would anyone write, publish, or think anyone would enjoy this piece of nonsense?<br />This is supposed to be the memories of Mrs. Shakespeare penned 7 years after her husband's death as related by the Author Mr. Robert Nye. Chapter 13 was the most honest when the Author/Writer states, \\"This was not a good chapter, but then it was number thirteen\\". That comment explains the 13th chapter but what about the other 74? Seventy-five chapters diced amongst 216 pages account for whatever this is supposed to be. Another chapter of note is The Dunghill Chapter, and while evidently not deserving of a chapter there are more than enough references, comments, descriptions, and actions involving Seagull waste to merit its own section.<br />Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? No thanks! That bit of brilliant repartee between Mr. And Mrs. Shakespeare is what passes for humor in this collection of badly penned memories formatted in some retched tribute to poetry/sonnets/whatever, who cares!<br />There are probably more books written about Shakespeare than any other individual. Pick one, anyone but this. No amount of pompous claims that you must be a connoisseur or of the most elite of experts on this man's work justify this trash. This is not clever, insightful, or witty. It is nothing.<br />Hopefully the paper will be recycled into something useful.	2001-04-04
2046225:US	53047425	R3FJSS8TKWMPP3	0374181152	85872492	Border Crossing: A Novel	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Almost	Ms. Pat Barker has written some wonderful books. Many consider her, \\"Regeneration Trilogy\\", her best work, and it was the most enjoyable work of hers for me as well. Her newest work, \\"Border Crossing\\", was frustrating as it appeared weak only to become very intriguing, however in the end it did not rise to the level of her other works.<br />The book opens with an event that is so unlikely as to seem absurd. Ms. Barker then does a wonderful job of providing the justification for this act and uses it to stage the continuation of a relationship ended 13 years previously. She develops great tension as to the ethical choices a doctor must make, and reconstructs the years of incarceration of a juvenile murderer that is unnerving and populated with some of the best characters she has created.<br />As she has done in the past, she creates and resolves a great many issues in the relatively brief span of 215 pages. When the read is complete the story and some of its elements are not. Critical issues that are seemingly the justification for revaluating the past are brought to the very edge of revelation and then dropped. There is no resolution of the story just a repetition of the original placement of an individual in new circumstances. The story could easily be continued and perhaps that is what she has in mind. I certainly hope this is the case as she has created at least 2 characters that are excellent, one of whom could be the darkest creation of her writing to date.	2001-04-03
2046800:US	53047425	RVO9Z2PJ2FMOY	1566491118	554400095	Judi Dench: With A Crack in Her Voice	Books	5	62	66	N	N	Dame Judi Dench	This biography is a rarity. Its purpose is to share the tremendous career and achievements of Mrs. Judi Dench, and it happily is lacking what biography has often become. It is not several hundred pages of dubious gossip or borderline slander. It is not a litany of innuendo from those who claim some dubious relationship to the subject and then do their best to damage the individual's reputation. If you are looking for gossip-strewn trash, buy history as revised and fictionalized by Kitty Kelly. Mr. John Miller has written a wonderful book about a woman of substance and of great personal and professional merit. Unlike other biographers who survive based upon how low they will sink for tabloid attention, he did not write whatever someone would spew to relate a story that was not there.<br />Dame Judi's career has spanned a period that has allowed her to work with many of the greatest names of the theatre of the 20th Century. Additionally the actresses, the Directors and Playwrights also read like a list of those most accomplished in their fields. Many fans first met her as \\"M\\" in the James Bond Film Series, or as \\"Mrs. Brown\\", in her portrayal of Queen Victoria, or Queen Elizabeth in \\"Shakespeare In Love\\". The latter two films won her nominations for The Academy Award and the trend continued this year in Chocolat.<br />If you are interested in a story of a hard working actress, a woman who is a consummate professional, and respected by virtually all who have worked with her, this book is for you. However if you are like the journalist that opened a press conference by asking her a personal and intimate question, which caused her to rightfully dismiss the press conference format of dirt gathering from that day on, you will have to look elsewhere.<br />This is a great book about a woman who has succeeded in all areas she chose, and has done so with style and without the sordid notoriety that passes for fame today. Hers' is not a career of 15 minutes or 15, 30, or 45 years, but more like another legend Sir John Gielgud, who when he hit his 90th birthday never thought to pause.<br />Mr. Miller is to be commended for writing a worthwhile book and not a hardbound tabloid. If he seems less than objective due to the praise he has collected from her peers, it in fact only does \\"seem\\" that way. There are accomplished people today who can be admired and pointed to as role models. This book documents one. The other group tends to be long on press clippings and short on substance, but they also unfortunately sell books by the ton to book reading voyeurs.<br />Mr. Miller has written a work for the other readers.s, but more like another legend Sir John Gielgud, who when he hit his 90th birthday never thought to pause.<br />Mr. Miller is to be commended for writing a worthwhile book and not a hardbound tabloid. If he seems less than objective due to the praise he has collected from her peers, it in fact only does \\"seem\\" that way. There are accomplished people today who can be admired and pointed to as role models. This book documents one. The other group tends to be long on press clippings and short on substance, but they also unfortunately sell books by the ton to book reading voyeurs.<br />Mr. Miller has written a work for the other readers.	2001-04-03
2054738:US	53047425	R2NETQURKTWCWG	0811214168	859913010	Cape of Storms	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Read Carefully	Ms. Berberova's work has been praised as work that resides on the same tier as, \\"The Old Russians\\". High praise but not presumptuous as her book, \\"Cape Of Storms\\" demonstrates. And like many Great Russian writers her work is not something to casually stroll through. She demands your attention to detail, and her style can leave you wondering which turn you may have missed. None of this detracts from the reading, and some of the confusion may be due to translation, which no book benefits from.<br />The very beginning is critical to the book as it begins to piece together three sisters that share much but not always the same parentage. If you miss anything here, the rest of the book won't work unless you begin again. Whether their formative years are on Russian or French soil these three women could not be more different. Sonia is giving to asking questions that center on why, what, and who, and when the answers are not forthcoming it decides her fate.<br />Dasha will eventually find herself in Oran in circumstances much more pleasant that either of her other siblings/partial siblings, and Zai remains for the most part the most enigmatic of the three. The book also takes the forms of first person narrative, a diary that belongs to Sonia, tremendous dialogue, and is host to major events that take place largely out of the mainstream of the book, even while described on the book's pages. Further layers are added to the story when pre-war Paris is the locale for most of the book, and the life of being part of an emigration, and not part of so much else also runs through the work. The ideas of what an &eacute;migr&eacute; is and is not, is part of, and all they can never be, is extensively debated.<br />I have read two of this Author's books, and I have enjoyed them both. They are for those times when you want a book that demands your attention as opposed to a lighter diversion.	2001-03-27
2055109:US	53047425	R37RVG7UHDNHO6	0805241531	607639457	The Conversion : A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Conversion Does Not Always Mean Change	I have been reading several works by Mr. Aharon Appelfeld. Many of his books relate the stories of Holocaust survivors before, during and after the Genocide. \\"The Conversion\\", takes place two generations prior to the Holocaust and addresses the topic the title suggests.<br />Theologians must debate the concept of conversion on dozens of levels, some as basic as is conversion possible as an absolute. The practice is widespread in the setting of this Austrian City, and the reasons for it are as varied as the people who make the decision. And among the converted there remains a great deal of emotion as to what their own conversion means, why theirs was justifiable and others not. What constitutes a frivolous conversion? Some would say any conversion is so classified, others that convert so as to receive a promotion feel their actions are valid. Some feel safe in their decision if a Parent gave their approval.<br />Mr. Appelfeld tells a complex tale that is very serious, however he exposes the hypocrisy or perhaps the lunacy that religious conversion creates. A person is denied a high government post because he or she is a Jew. This same person spends a few hours with a Priest, the bells ring, and suddenly this same person is not only considered for the job, but is rewarded with it. Who is more deluded, the person who converts, or the person who accepts them because of their conversion?<br />As he always does Mr. Appelfeld explores enough layers to show readers how complex a subject he is presenting, and how much more is left to be discussed. Why would a Jew become a Christian and almost immediately become the first in line to defend the people, the group, the traditions he just turned his back upon? One convert makes the transition from allowing a Priest to accept and convert him to Christianity only to see the same person see the Priest as a predator as a short time passes.<br />All of the writing of Mr. Appelfeld's that I have read is powerful. The end of this work is especially strong as he creates an ending that foretells the future. I don't believe many Authors could have written the ending with credibility much less with the emotion the reader has thrown over them.<br />I recommend this man's books to anyone. The topics may seem to be those you may have read before; however in every instance of his work even the familiar causes emotions to surface that would just be read without pause in another work. The man is truly a remarkable writer.s especially strong as he creates an ending that foretells the future. I don't believe many Authors could have written the ending with credibility much less with the emotion the reader has thrown over them.<br />I recommend this man's books to anyone. The topics may seem to be those you may have read before; however in every instance of his work even the familiar causes emotions to surface that would just be read without pause in another work. The man is truly a remarkable writer.	2001-03-26
2055399:US	53047425	R2HKRIE4XVCT53	0684870312	708094917	Where I'm Bound: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	We Die Free	\\"Where I'm Bound\\", is a work of historically-based fiction by Mr. Allen B. Ballard documenting the 180,000 African American Men who fought for the Union Army during this Nation's Civil War. Like the \\"Buffalo Soldiers\\" who served this Country in its Western Frontier, the 1,000 commissioned officers in World War I, the 370,000 \\"Doughboys\\" of World War I, or the Tuskegee Airman of World War II fighter pilot fame, these men and women fought and died for ideas and beliefs for which they have never been fully rewarded.<br />Rewarded may be the wrong word, perhaps recognition was all they sought. The tragedy of what they sought was something that their white counterparts took for granted, or in some cases took away from them. These African-American Soldiers were in some instances freedmen, in other, slaves who had escaped and then joined the Union Army to march directly back and fight those who enslaved them. They fought to reunite their families, they fought for what they were told would be waiting for them if the Union won, they fought for what the white men they fought and died with had enjoyed under the words, \\"we hold these truths to be self evident\\". The truths were self evident if you were white, male, and owned property. If you did not meet these criteria the words were as meaningless then as they are today.<br />Mr. Ballard recreates the horror of hand-to-hand fighting that was often a part of any given battle in this Country's Civil War. His story is fiction, however it is based upon real individuals that lived and fought, and the battles they fought and gave their lives in. His story contains all that was insidious in this war, however he also brings balance by depicting events that this reader did not expect to have actually happened. The events resolved themselves as one would hope they would, and that was why they were surprising to read, and an even greater surprise to read they are historically accurate.<br />Those who believed he was their savior refer to President Abraham Lincoln repeatedly in this book. They believed he was going to make them citizens a century after they had been excluded from the populace unless counted as property. What would they have felt, and how would they have fought if they knew this same President, \\"did not believe blacks and whites could live together\\"?<br />There were 180,000 black soldiers in the Union Army. How many African Americans do you see when the reenactments of some of the battles take place? How many paintings by those who chronicle that period of History celebrate the blood that was shed that was as red as any, but valued less because of its source?<br />If there were a vantage point from which those who have died can see what has resulted from their sacrifice, what changes would they see and what it is they died for, how would they feel? Their decision to fight and in their moment of death they may have indeed been free. But did their deaths bring the freedom they thought they were dying for? The answer is pathetic, as any cursory review of the century following the end of the Civil War will show.<br />This is an important book that I hope will cause the writing of many more. History is only as worthwhile as it is complete and accurate. African Americans, Native Americans, and other minorities have fought and died for the freedom we all enjoy. Because of books like this History becomes more valuable, for if you were to judge the contributions of African Americans by the number of monuments that have been raised to honor them, you would think they were barely present, much less a powerful positive element in the history of this Country.President Abraham Lincoln repeatedly in this book. They believed he was going to make them citizens a century after they had been excluded from the populace unless counted as property. What would they have felt, and how would they have fought if they knew this same President, \\"did not believe blacks and whites could live together\\"?<br />There were 180,000 black soldiers in the Union Army. How many African Americans do you see when the reenactments of some of the battles take place? How many paintings by those who chronicle that period of History celebrate the blood that was shed that was as red as any, but valued less because of its source?<br />If there were a vantage point from which those who have died can see what has resulted from their sacrifice, what changes would they see and what it is they died for, how would they feel? Their decision to fight and in their moment of death they may have indeed been free. But did their deaths bring the freedom they thought they were dying for? The answer is pathetic, as any cursory review of the century following the end of the Civil War will show.<br />This is an important book that I hope will cause the writing of many more. History is only as worthwhile as it is complete and accurate. African Americans, Native Americans, and other minorities have fought and died for the freedom we all enjoy. Because of books like this History becomes more valuable, for if you were to judge the contributions of African Americans by the number of monuments that have been raised to honor them, you would think they were barely present, much less a powerful positive element in the history of this Country.	2001-03-26
2055631:US	53047425	R5XHQ11J6FHDV	0811214362	462582559	The Ladies from St. Petersburg	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great Starting Point	Ms. Nina Berberova was an unknown writer to me prior to my reading of, \\"The Ladies Of St. Petersburg\\". Happily she no longer is an unknown. Ms. Berberova presents three novellas in this work, all of which are very well done. My comment about starting with this particular work is that it contains an extensive 14 page Foreword by Ms. Marian Schwartz who translated the work of this woman who wrote throughout her 92-year life. This section includes a great deal of biographical information, as well as explaining some of the difficulties involved in translating the work and deciphering the Author's originally intended symbolism.<br />All three novellas are wonderful, and they all are quite different from one another. Even the first two that are many things but are not joyous, are still are very different. \\"The Ladies From St. Petersburg\\" covers a great swath of time and History, which it is recounted in so few pages, and feels so complete when read is remarkable. The main event is not new or unique, however Ms. Berberova adds a circumstance that takes a routine if unhappy event, and makes it almost grotesque.<br />The second work, \\"Zoya Andreyevna\\", has the largest cast of players and provides a setting for a wide exposition of human character traits, and the tale will not leave you filled with optimism. The final work, \\"The Big City\\" is quite different, appears autobiographical and looks forward to a future that while seemingly positive still reads as though the character sees the future through shades of gray. New times are approaching, they will be better, or will at least seem to be. There is a fascinating bit when a set of binoculars are much more than an optical instrument, and become more like a crystal ball manipulated by the user and perhaps their owner.<br />Three great Novellas, which suggest that pursuing this writer's work, is definitely worthwhile.	2001-03-26
2061116:US	53047425	R1LWZ5RCU8OYWW	0452282233	669427211	True North	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Clarification	My comments that follow are on the book, \\"True North\\" by Ms. Kimberly Kafka, which contains main characters originally from New England, and takes place in Alaska. The book was a good story, well written, and new if you have not read a great deal on this Country's largest state and its indigenous people.<br />In this type of fiction there is one aspect that separates the good from the extremely good. This Author lives the life of her character, perhaps not as depicted in this story, however she writes with a credibility that cannot be researched, the Author has been there or they have not, there is no middle ground for authenticity.<br />The setting was certainly a strong point for the book as it was so well done, even better was Ms. Kafka's handling of the quest of Zach and Alpha, and certain coincidences between the first to leave New England, Bailey, and the first two players I mentioned. Both the mission that Zach was on and the questions that were left unresolved could have been clich&eacute; at best, and horrendous on the scale's other extreme. The Author has a talent for giving bits of credibility to people and their actions that make the reader believe in the general story when isolated portions would otherwise appear weak.<br />I also became very interested in the story of the Natives of Alaska and their History. I do not know if the circumstances she describes are true, however the fact she can cause a reader to want to know more about what she has portrayed in fiction is something that is unique and the Author deserves credit for.<br />The issue that kept the five stars rating in abeyance was the number of issues left unresolved, and the importance these issues held throughout the work. It may be the Author intends to continue this story, and is she does I will read it, however the pieces left incomplete were a cause for frustration.	2001-03-21
2062534:US	53047425	R13ZJMSB2DUGU3	0743400755	207470435	Pu-239 And Other Russian Fantasies	Books	2	6	11	N	N	The Fantasies Are Not Only Russian	This is the second collection of short stories written by Mr. Kalfus, and additionally includes a novella as the final installment. This series of work was generally less well received than his first book entitled, \\"Thirst\\", however I came across \\"Pu-239\\", first so my expectations were limited. His first effort was highly praised, however I found it barely readable, this second work is worse.<br />This collection of Russian tales is the result of his having spent 4 years in the Former Soviet Union, and, \\"traveling the breadth of the Russian landscape\\". I think this statement is fair as he evidently did not travel the areas depth, as these stories are for the most part clich&eacute;, shallow, and sprinkled with historical bits of trivia as in, \\"Orbit\\", that anyone who has read anything of the Russian Space Program knows of. The suggestion the Author spent years immersed in the culture of The Former Soviet Union may be true, but you will not find it in these stories.<br />\\"Pu-239\\", begins and holds some interest even though it appears as a knock off of a Chernobyl like incident. At the end of its 30 pages it deteriorates into actions by characters that lack a high enough I.Q. to walk upright. \\"Salt\\", is just plain insulting to the reader. This fable might be appropriate in a children's book, but Aesop already has that area covered.<br />As I mentioned in my comments on the first collection, I was perhaps the odd reader out, not so this time. This book and its contents are just plain bad. Fortunately the reader is excused another Reading Group Guide, or the condescension would be insufferable.	2001-03-20
2063214:US	53047425	R20HWQ5V8HZ8CD	1585670030	406649470	The Virtuoso	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Done Well, However	This work by Ms. Margriet de Moor is very well written, however I believe it will appeal to a narrower group than some other works in the same genre. The Neapolitan setting is wonderfully detailed but is merely a side note to the dominant first person narrative.<br />And the narrative is a bit unusual in that the woman who is the center of the work has a variety of affairs, intimately detailed but not lurid, however her obsessive affair is with a \\"Castrato\\". The book is massively detailed for the musically literate, however for those of us not familiar with the unique singing skills of this physically modified man, the detail can be an impediment to seeing what the Author intends, the larger your musical lexicon the more this story will appeal.<br />The idea of a love affair between this unusual pair could easily sink into a voyeuristic trudge, but this never happens as Ms. De Moor writes well, and when describing the intimacies never descends to the prurient.<br />A very good book that should be approached cautiously, for the musically very well informed a wonderful read, for those looking for a bit less romance search elsewhere.	2001-03-19
2063563:US	53047425	RQ5DH0OJ415ES	0375505547	109536758	I Love You, Ronnie: The Letters of Ronald Reagan to Nancy Reagan	Books	5	88	97	N	N	A Tribute And Grand Legacy	There is evidently a survey done annually that asks people to rate who the greatest Presidents were to have served this Country. Number one has often been Abraham Lincoln, and he was so chosen again this year. Number two was John F. Kennedy, and number three was Ronald Reagan. I have always been a great admirer of the man, but I never had strong impressions about his wife. This collection of memories by Former First Lady Nancy Reagan entitled, &quot;I Love You Ronnie&quot;, portrays Mr. Reagan as one might expect. Of greater interest was what can be learned about this Country's Former First Lady.<br />You do not have to read very far into this book of letters and recollections to understand that their marriage was unique. The bond between them reads more like a fairly tale, and that makes the truth of it all the more unusual. Their story of course has been heading toward its end through the tragedy of Alzheimer's, however even this trial was shared publicly for the benefit it may bring. This book as well will benefit The Alzheimer's Foundation as well as The Presidential Library Of Mr. Reagan. The last fact is important as it clears the air as to the suggestion this book was written for profit and personal wealth for Mr. And Mrs. Reagan.<br />Mrs. Reagan was often portrayed as a woman who was impossible to get along with, an interference, and a borderline head case when she was alleged to have sought the advice of an astrologer regarding her husband's activities. Her decisions become clearer even if you do not share her belief in the methods she may have consulted, and to why she conducted herself the way she did. This is a couple of nearly 50 years who would write notes to each other when they were only across the room. This is a couple that was as excited about being together decade after decade as they were in the opening days of their initial romance. Their relationship is so lengthy and intense it could almost be called symbiotic.<br />Three months after he becomes President he is shot and very nearly dies. She would later have Cancer, and he would deal with Cancer not once but twice in his administration. They always shared these personal travails with the public in the hope it would help others. They had a special respect for, and a relationship with The American People. Going on National television and telling the Nation mind your own business would not have occurred to this President.<br />The book is also helpful in gaining an insight as to how he evolved via his relationship with General Electric, from a spokesperson for them, to a man that became first the Governor of California, and then the President, twice. Much of what Mrs. Reagan has to say would be dismissed out of hand by more &quot;modern&quot; First Ladies. How she viewed her responsibilities are for readers to judge. For readers who were around and aware of Mr. Reagan's years in office, you will remember they were not perfect, no administration ever has been. But after only a very short time as measured by History, this Country's citizens recall him as one of the finest. Americans remember what they felt like when he spoke, how he took us out from the &quot;Malaise&quot; of the self-described Carter Presidency, and made this Country once again feel good about what and who we were/are.<br />Mrs. Reagan clearly contributed to the success of her Husband, and by extension to his Presidency and all of us. This was a man who would not remove his jacket when in the oval office out of respect for the History the room and his predecessors represented. Whether you like the man and his wife or not, an objective review of how they conducted their White House Years will stand as well as any in our Nation's History, and perhaps put into perspective just how atrocious the Conduct of Mr. Clinton, and the presumption of Mrs. Clinton were.<br />The Presidency is about a great many things, many ideals, and many lofty goals that may never be reached. A Great President and First Lady add to the legacy of other great First Couples before them. They never disgraced the office, themselves, or their Country, by turning the home of the President into a front page National Enquirer Joke.<br />To learn why this was never even a possibility, read the book.rst Lady add to the legacy of other great First Couples before them. They never disgraced the office, themselves, or their Country, by turning the home of the President into a front page National Enquirer Joke.<br />To learn why this was never even a possibility, read the book.	2001-03-19
2066340:US	53047425	R2IE4U0ZFBQO2W	0375411615	58613094	Love, etc.	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Not Recycled But Recreated	I have read and enjoyed all of the work that Mr. Barnes has published. There are works that stand out and distinguish themselves better than another, but overall he writes at a skill level that most contemporary writers only dream about. Based on, &quot;Love, etc&quot;, a book written 10 years after, &quot;Talking It Over&quot;, with events taking place 10 years later as well, is one of the best of his works I have read.<br />Mr. Barnes could have taken the road already successfully traveled and just recycled the same primary characters of the first book. They were all very well done, and the resulting second work would have been good as well. However 10 years is a long time, and just as his characters have changed and become more complex through experience, I believe Mr. Barnes probably spent a good deal of time bringing not just the next installment of these lives to us, but raising the level of his writing, and greatly expanding the number of players. Some new voices are only cameos, others as integral to the plot as the original trio of Stuart, Gillian, and Oliver.<br />I may be in the minority, but I did not see the original work as being unfinished. Many books could have additional chapters or sequels, and the first was not any type of cliffhanger. That said this continuation is excellent, and I hope he does not wait another decade to expand this to a triptych.<br />Without spoiling anything, Stuart has progressed, Oliver has become too clever for even himself, and Gillian is Gillian albeit a bit more of an enigma that serial marrier as in the first book. This piece is certainly darker than the first; some may even find it violent. However as with the first work the events that unwind are shared with the reader by those involved, so the accounts must be weighed. It is probably a bit like being a juror, who do you believe?<br />I enjoyed the first book, I loved this one, and I believe the Author will be hard pressed not to continue the saga. He has now established that the end is not that at all, and further, that he can take material that appears complete, expand it, and give it new life. Extremely well done, and worth the time to read.<br />On a final note Mr. Barnes added children to this book, and they added immeasurably to the work.hed that the end is not that at all, and further, that he can take material that appears complete, expand it, and give it new life. Extremely well done, and worth the time to read.<br />On a final note Mr. Barnes added children to this book, and they added immeasurably to the work.	2001-03-16
2067189:US	53047425	R3LUNHG83FMIYT	0679736557	891428446	About Looking	Books	5	88	92	N	N	How little we appreciate visually	Most of what our eyes take in is filtered, as we cannot process all that is within the field of our vision. Were there no limits, sleep would be required for the vast majority of each 24-hour period. Our brain provides filters that allow selective acknowledgement or perhaps isolated concentration on those visual cues that we deem important.<br />Mr. John Berger's book, &quot;About Looking&quot;, will radically change your perception of what you see.<br />Much of the book is dedicated to explaining how various artists' works should be visually understood, what a casual viewer would observe as opposed to someone who is trained in art. I have generally found the long-winded, affected, and pretentious descriptions of art by &quot;Art Experts&quot; to be ridiculous at best and coma inducing more the norm. As Mr. Berger takes you through various artists and how he &quot;sees&quot; their work the language can still seem a bit affected, but as you read, this man uses the words he needs. To suggest he is affecting his explanations would be a petty way to express one's ignorance. Read what he says, and you will see things, as you have not before.<br />I enjoyed the entire book, however the essays, \\"Why Look At Animals, and, Uses of Photography\\", were of greatest interest. They went beyond the explanation of expanding the methods of how the visual can be expanded and included History, Anthropology, and Sociology as well. Many people find zoos artificial, perverse, or even fraudulent. When you read this man's explanation of Animals, our relationships to them over time and how we see them, and they us, regardless of what you now feel you will feel differently.<br />The same is true in his essay on photography. The science is relatively new, the use and invasion of the camera has become something so common the practice of using a camera is barely noticed. There are the occasional eruptions over privacy, surveillance, and &quot;Big Brother&quot;, but those that suggest we are not already a society who have given up much of their privacy, are deluding themselves. Mr. Berger does not just opine on the subject. Court cases, the use of the camera in all its incarnations is explored more deeply than a casual look would suggest there is material to talk about.<br />This is not a book by a shallow charlatan picking off a couple of quick tricks that make you say hmmmmmmm. He does show that even when the filtered information arrives we see very little of what reaches us; we rarely gain the benefit of all the information. He demonstrates how a bit of inquisitiveness can make what seems ordinary spectacularly special.already a society who have given up much of their privacy, are deluding themselves. Mr. Berger does not just opine on the subject. Court cases, the use of the camera in all its incarnations is explored more deeply than a casual look would suggest there is material to talk about.<br />This is not a book by a shallow charlatan picking off a couple of quick tricks that make you say hmmmmmmm. He does show that even when the filtered information arrives we see very little of what reaches us; we rarely gain the benefit of all the information. He demonstrates how a bit of inquisitiveness can make what seems ordinary spectacularly special.	2001-03-16
2067193:US	53047425	R3DPS7ODB5A72	0618079947	589843032	The Means of Escape	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Not What Traditional Admirers May Expect	Ms. Penelope Fitzgerald was one of the greatest new Authors that became known to me over the last year. While I have read all of her novels, I have read only one of her three non-fiction works. I have commented on all, and with one exception I wish she had started writing about 4 decades sooner than she did.<br />Her novels all had several common denominators, their quality, the scope contained in the length she used, and their length, or more accurately their lack of length. So when I encountered this book that offered 8 stories over a diminutive 117 pages, even as great an admirer as I was incredulous.<br />The 8 stories are not equal, some are extremely clever, and one or two seemed more like thoughts that were abruptly cut off. Some of her novels ended with the finality of a guillotine blade crashing down, however this was after a good bit of reading had been done. When the stories average out at 14 small pages each, the word abrupt is too tame. Two stories in particular stood out, &quot;Desderatus&quot; and &quot;The Axe&quot;. Of these two one showed a side of this woman's writing I never expected. Stephen King easily could have placed \\"The Axe\\", in a collection of his short stories, and it would have fit beautifully. Had this woman made the decision she may have been a writer that brought us classics in the Genre of &quot;Frankenstein&quot; and &quot;Dracula&quot;. Lights definitely go on and stay for, &quot;The Axe&quot;.<br />This is not a five star work by this wonderful Author. However I rate it as such for all the great writing she shared in her all too brief career. Taken as a whole this is probably a 3.5 to 4 star work. I miss the lady's exercising of her craft too much not to give the work 5 stars. Think of it as a thank you for all she gave readers.	2001-03-16
2070280:US	53047425	R2QN46A4H82JQB	0802133592	850484845	To the Land of Cattails (Appelfeld, Aharon)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Final Trip Home	Most of the books I have read by Mr. Aharon Appelfeld have dealt with movement, the movement of an individual, or in this case, a Mother and her Son. This work differs as it is at the beginning of The Holocaust, and we read not of survivors attempting to travel and regain their previous life, but of individuals heading straight into the Genocide.<br />This is one of the briefer of this Author's novels, however it does not lack depth in plot, or in its characters. The story takes place in the summer of 1938, the infamous trains have been transporting the Reich's victims, and this is one of the more interesting pieces of the story to unravel. The Country that was their home was an early entrant into the Nazi Sphere, and their travels took them not away from, but rather toward the planned insanity that was taking place. The circumstances are also more complex as the Mother has left an abusive marriage to a Gentile. The only child is a Son, who though Jewish by Religious and Nazi Law, appears not to be, and their reception along the way demonstrates this. As they approach their ultimate destination the Mother also wavers from proclaiming her Son a Jew or a Christian.<br />The return trip without the waiting trains is still destined to be a painful conflict. This first return home after marrying outside her faith guarantees conflict with her Family at a minimum. As the trip progresses the mood darkens, however the Mother seems much more aware than her Son.<br />When the final approach to her hometown is all that is left after weeks of travel, the Son wakes to find he has been left, his Mother has gone on without him. And from this point on the story seems to pose the question of whether or not the Mother was having her Son deliver her to this danger she could not have been ignorant of, as she states that Jews are not well-liked as they get closer to her birthplace.<br />The Son pursues his Mother, and meets many others on their way to the trains, or others that wait for them. I am confident that many will interpret the story differently, but it seemed that the Mother knew what the future held, and wanted her Son to deliver her believing he would not be suspected of being Jewish.<br />Like all his books the storylines are not shallow or simplistic. Even when Mr. Appelfeld writes about the Holocaust that the he survived and his Mother did not; it still is not just about that instant of tragedy. Read a work of his twice and interpretations can change,them. I am confident that many will interpret the story differently, but it seemed that the Mother knew what the future held, and wanted her Son to deliver her believing he would not be suspected of being Jewish.<br />Like all his books the storylines are not shallow or simplistic. Even when Mr. Appelfeld writes about the Holocaust that the he survived and his Mother did not; it still is not just about that instant of tragedy. Read a work of his twice and interpretations can change,	2001-03-13
2072179:US	53047425	RHIJR9QVBQFFV	0071369929	289929888	How to Think Like Benjamin Graham and Invest Like Warren Buffett	Books	5	32	40	N	N	Everything Should	\\"Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not more so.\\" Albert Einstein<br />Mr. Charles Munger likes the above referenced quote when speaking of investing methodology, and the Author of, \\"How To Think Like Benjamin Graham And Invest Like Warren Buffet\\", embraces that concept in his book as well. Mr. Lawrence A. Cunningham who authored this book delivers to readers the methodologies of the legends mentioned in his book's title, and he applies them to Corporations ranging from GE, to Microsoft, to Amazon.com. He delivers information that is understandable, that does not mean no effort is required as making money takes work.<br />Mr. Cunningham is unique as his work is considered the best when it comes to documenting what it is Mr. Warren Buffet does. The book is, \\"superb\\", his book is far better than any of the biographies to date, if I were to pick one book to read this would be the one. Quotes are only as valid as their source, and the comments I just referenced were from the sage himself Mr. Warren Buffet when speaking of the previous work by Mr. Cunningham, \\"The Essays Of Warren Buffet\\". I have commented on that book some time ago, and I have referred to it countless times. If you trade it should be within arms reach.<br />This is not a mindless publication that proclaims, buy this now, do this now, the stocks to own now! Books such as these are by definition irrelevant, when is the now that is referred to? If that could be explained I would change my opinion, it cannot, so I shall not. This book dismisses myths, and reviews the fundamentals that have worked for decades. And if there is an appropriate time to read the work it is now. As I write this the NASDAQ has dropped below 2,000 when a year ago this month it was just over 5,000. The DJIA is down over 200 points, and the S&amp;P is down 25.6, and the market has been open for an hour.<br />So why read the book, Berkshire Hathaway is trading at 95.71% of what it was trading at one year ago. This is at a time when other major firms are down, CSCO at 23.09% of one year ago, Intel at 37.75%; even General Electric is trading at 69.96% of one year ago. These vast differences are no accident, they have been indicative of Mr. Buffet's performance for decades. He had been heavily criticized for not making purchases of Tech Stocks; I don't hear that criticism now.<br />The Author goes to great length to demonstrate how misleading numbers can be, and thankfully he leaves politically correct speech behind. There is no creative accounting, there is fraud, failed CEO'S are not rewarded with undeserved praise as they are with millions upon millions of dollars for severance after destroying the value of the company they were hired to manage. And he does not speak in generalities, he names companies and their CEO'S whether he is praising or condemning their performance. The definition of a CEO that embodies an individual you trust for their integrity and for caring for your money, Mr. Jack Welch CEO of General Electric. Or the CEO who tries to buy the company profitability with a bad acquisition, based on bad reasoning, Ms. Jill Barad of Mattel. One year prior to the acquisition of The Learning Company Mattel was trading at $40.00 per share, then at the time of acquisition, down to $26.00. And after loosing $100 million for Mattel, the new stock value was $11.00. She was asked to leave, and paid millions to do so.<br />The paragraph above contains real examples of a myriad of topics that are discussed, ranging from the integrity of the CEO, The Board, how many directors there should be, what they should be paid, and how they should be judged. Another illuminating area was the negotiations between Mercedes Benz and Chrysler, and the list of great case examples continues through dozens of additional companies. Humor is also used deftly and sparingly. Chapters like, Prozac Market, Take The Fifth, and Apple Trees And Experience are wonderful. The apples discussed are not those ofMr. Jobs.<br />If you have walked by the financial magazine section in the last month a very familiar face has graced several covers. On one magazine the photograph was accompanied by an insipid question along the lines of, \\"why this person is in fashion once again\\". The man is Warren Buffet, and the answer is he has never been out of fashion as he has never been as transient, shallow, and seasonal as fashion or all the 15 minute hotshots that come along every minute or so with another method to get poor quick.<br />No one can match Warren Buffet and the great teachers he studied under and whose methods he has either remained faithful to or modified for his shareholders benefit. The same man says this Author has done a \\"superb\\" job in documenting Berkshire Hathaway, better than any other Biographer.<br />Why would an investor not read this book, and again keep it within arms reach when making an investment decision?<br />I have 35 stocks on my screen, 33 are down 2 are up, Berkshire A Shares, and Berkshire B shares..........Mr. Jobs.<br />If you have walked by the financial magazine section in the last month a very familiar face has graced several covers. On one magazine the photograph was accompanied by an insipid question along the lines of, \\"why this person is in fashion once again\\". The man is Warren Buffet, and the answer is he has never been out of fashion as he has never been as transient, shallow, and seasonal as fashion or all the 15 minute hotshots that come along every minute or so with another method to get poor quick.<br />No one can match Warren Buffet and the great teachers he studied under and whose methods he has either remained faithful to or modified for his shareholders benefit. The same man says this Author has done a \\"superb\\" job in documenting Berkshire Hathaway, better than any other Biographer.<br />Why would an investor not read this book, and again keep it within arms reach when making an investment decision?<br />I have 35 stocks on my screen, 33 are down 2 are up, Berkshire A Shares, and Berkshire B shares..........	2001-03-12
2072518:US	53047425	R15IVRFEEROWR	0805210970	891959818	Unto the Soul: A novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Deprivation	\\"Unto The Soul\\", by Mr. Aharon Appelfeld is the most complex of his works I have read. I use the word less as an indicator of difficulty, rather to represent how much he includes in this story. It also differs from previous works in that the events take place almost exclusively in one place; there is none of the travel that is fundamental to many of his books. It also is not specifically a Holocaust themed book, and that may contribute to its area of confinement. The main characters are not dealing with a specific event, rather a single decision that creates all the conflict two people could handle.<br />When this brother and sister pledge to continue the guardianship of a cemetery of Jewish martyrs that their Grandfather has kept watch over for 60 years, they are placed in an unnatural condition that would require impregnable faith, belief in what they agreed to do, and living lives so limited they seem more appropriate to those who take the most extreme of religious vows of abstention, poverty, and isolation. And unlike many who choose such a life, they are completely alone, there is no structure to support them.<br />Their isolation on a mountaintop does offer some degree of security from the consequences of anti-Semitism, a barrier to disease, and during the winter these protections are nearly impregnable. The winters are also nearly endless, the Pilgrims do not support the caretakers as they did their Grandfather, and Gad is not his Grandfather's equal. He cannot stop those who do not respect what they seem to value and those that care for it, by refusing them entry when no donation is offered. And these contributions are the only income there are to have.<br />The book covers 8 years of their custodianship, their efforts to remain true to their pledge, and the results of living in isolation so nearly complete as to be unnatural. The challenges both mental and physical are not only immense they place this brother and sister in an environment when certain conduct can be devastating.<br />The Author puts every aspect of their lives under intense pressure and then we watch. Does their religion maintain them, do social mores and customs hold, does near isolation actually provide a degree of protection the idea suggests? Can these two people age 18 and 25 when they begin their task survive, maintain their sanity, and if so, how?<br />The Author also interjects facets that were certainly chosen with care, but as to their interpretation, the answers are not as apparent. Not far from where they watch their cemetery there is a Christian burial ground that features prominently in both the Grandfather's life, and those of his Grandchildren. The plots they care for are arranged precisely, the damage from weather is constant, and when the weather is not a foe, anti-Semitics provide the desecration.<br />A very fascinating book that would probably only get better with the level of understanding of Judaism the reader has. However this is not a prerequisite for enjoying this man's work.t can be devastating.<br />The Author puts every aspect of their lives under intense pressure and then we watch. Does their religion maintain them, do social mores and customs hold, does near isolation actually provide a degree of protection the idea suggests? Can these two people age 18 and 25 when they begin their task survive, maintain their sanity, and if so, how?<br />The Author also interjects facets that were certainly chosen with care, but as to their interpretation, the answers are not as apparent. Not far from where they watch their cemetery there is a Christian burial ground that features prominently in both the Grandfather's life, and those of his Grandchildren. The plots they care for are arranged precisely, the damage from weather is constant, and when the weather is not a foe, anti-Semitics provide the desecration.<br />A very fascinating book that would probably only get better with the level of understanding of Judaism the reader has. However this is not a prerequisite for enjoying this man's work.	2001-03-12
2073518:US	53047425	R3AUY0CZFOSODL	0671034820	369277977	Thirst	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Comes With A Guide	\\"Thirst\\", by Ken Kalfus contains a Reading Group Guide at the end of the book. The Guide's goal is to help the readers find, \\"new and interesting angles and topics for discussion\\", as they pertain to the collection of stories. It may make a difference when these are glanced at, and they may be of interest to some readers. In my reading I could not get terribly interested in the stories or their characters to invest time beyond the actual reading.<br />This is the first of 2 books that Mr. Kalfus has written that contain a variety of short stories. I actually read the second collection first, as most who had read both found the second work weaker. In this work, \\"Thirst\\", there was one story I almost enjoyed that was shared in two parts, and one or two others I found intriguing until I came across the guide at the end. The guide seemed more of an effort to convince the reader of how much there was to these stories, how varied their structure was, and the symbolism that should be looked for. At times the guide read as an English Test.<br />\\"Le Jardin de la Sexualite\\", is presented in two parts, \\"Bouquet\\", and, \\"Thirst\\". It is the first story in the book, and it is mildly amusing at best, and only if an Au Pair chasing her two young girls in an attempt to get them out of an anatomically correct museum interests you. The Au pair is also pursued, and if some mind numbing attempt at exploring sexuality interests you, so will this story. \\"Cats In Space\\", will fascinate anyone who enjoyed harming small animals as a child, and, \\"Suit\\", is one of the most clich&eacute; pieces by far although the guide will attempt to convince you otherwise.<br />I may be the odd reader out with this book, but I would wager otherwise. Good writing does not need to be explained, just written. Write well and people will find no difficulty in discussing the work, present this material, and you best explain what you thought you were doing as some may reconsider their first opinion.	2001-03-11
2074266:US	53047425	R33KC0B4NC4KKX	0520216121	865947898	Denying History: Who Says the Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say It?	Books	5	12	26	N	N	Abuse Of Basic Freedom	It can be argued that Freedom Of Speech is the Keystone of civilized citizenship, remove the one stone and all it supports is reduced to rubble. The right to speak freely carries with it great responsibility, it demands personal discipline that dictates when the moment calls for silence while another espouses that which others died to stop, and that is what this book is about. It relates the few who lacking a part of their Humanity use their right to speak to inflict pain and suffering, and to deny what is factually unassailable. It takes apart these parasites of cruelty who are largely without credentials in the fields they claim to be expert in, whose claim to scholarly pursuit is as fraudulent as the effluent that flows from their mouths, their books, and their advertisements.<br />This is also about men and women who produce The Historical Record with Scientific Exactitude, and who willingly modify that record when later evidence requires change. Mr. Michael Shermer and Mr. Alex Grobman are both Scholars and Historians who took years to document that which is accepted as truth by all but the mentally bent. Immanuel Khant knew how these deniers were made, these deniers of history when he said, \\"Out of timber so crooked as that from which man is made nothing entirely straight can be built\\".<br />Deny the Holocaust. Deny the Sun rises and sets. Pathetic as the statement may be these thoughts and those who attempt to pedal their dementia are why their need to be constant reminders and a never-ending availability of books that keep Historical Atrocities current and relevant. It is also why we must always have Authors such as these who have the stamina to document what should require nothing other than acceptance. Why we need these men to sit across from other men while they ridicule a camp survivor who witnessed exactly what the deniers deny.<br />This truly is a remarkable exposition about how real History can be recorded and abused. It answers why the few on the fringe of their created fantasies cannot be ignored, but at the same time demonstrates that nothing requires morally or legally that they be helped to spread their lies. Their freedom to speak and write may cause nausea at the very least, however free speech does not require college newspapers to accept the ads the deniers produce.<br />I also admired the Authors for stepping outside the event that is so much a part of their lives, and to write at length of the Holocaust so well documented in the work, \\"The Rape Of Nanking\\". The Japanese Government has yet to claim full responsibility for the crimes that Japan committed in WW II. And then there is the Government of Turkey for the slaughter of Armenians and Pontic Greeks, The United State for the 400 years of genocide against Africans and African Americans, and the extermination attempted of The Native Americans. It was just a few months ago that then President Clinton intervened to stop a bill condemning the Turkish Government for continuing to deny their history.<br />I had the privilege to listen to and then speak with Mr. Randall Robinson, an African American, Scholar and Author, and Civil Rights Activist. One of the points he made that evening is that when any part of society denies the History of another group of its citizens, they damage themselves, not just those whose History they seek to deny. To steal, deny, or erase History is to do so for us all, to the detriment of all.<br />I have read dozens of books on this topic, and page for page this is as good as any.<br />We just never seem to learn............inge of their created fantasies cannot be ignored, but at the same time demonstrates that nothing requires morally or legally that they be helped to spread their lies. Their freedom to speak and write may cause nausea at the very least, however free speech does not require college newspapers to accept the ads the deniers produce.<br />I also admired the Authors for stepping outside the event that is so much a part of their lives, and to write at length of the Holocaust so well documented in the work, \\"The Rape Of Nanking\\". The Japanese Government has yet to claim full responsibility for the crimes that Japan committed in WW II. And then there is the Government of Turkey for the slaughter of Armenians and Pontic Greeks, The United State for the 400 years of genocide against Africans and African Americans, and the extermination attempted of The Native Americans. It was just a few months ago that then President Clinton intervened to stop a bill condemning the Turkish Government for continuing to deny their history.<br />I had the privilege to listen to and then speak with Mr. Randall Robinson, an African American, Scholar and Author, and Civil Rights Activist. One of the points he made that evening is that when any part of society denies the History of another group of its citizens, they damage themselves, not just those whose History they seek to deny. To steal, deny, or erase History is to do so for us all, to the detriment of all.<br />I have read dozens of books on this topic, and page for page this is as good as any.<br />We just never seem to learn............	2001-03-10
2076394:US	53047425	R39G34DO1N632H	1860463428	864433181	Burning the Days	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Question Is When To Read This Book	Autobiographies, and to a lesser extent Biographies, by or about an Author always present hazards. If a reader has enjoyed a body of work the chances they have developed their own vision of what the Author is like is high. And to the extent the vision and the reality diverge, it can be positive or negative, cherished books become tainted, or the books are even of greater interest when the life of the Author who wrote them is known. There is no danger with, \\"Burning The Days\\", an autobiography of James Salter. In this particular case I wish I had read this before his novels, as I believe I would have gained much more from his work.<br />The biography is not exhaustive as it is, \\"more or less complete\\", by the Author's definition. He suggests complete life descriptions would be impossibly long, and at other times speaks of a person who is thoroughly written about as destroyed, used up. Another Author in the book observes that if not written about a life is not complete. These types of observations are a constant element of the book as the Author has shared the company with innumerable great Artists, Authors, Actors, etc, over his life and writing career.<br />For those who enjoyed the flying experiences in, \\"The Hunters\\", there is a wealth of new material to enjoy here. Of great interest to me was learning how difficult it was for an Author who is now so highly praised to have had such difficulty having several of his works published. Also learning about the characters in his life and whether they became the basis for characters in his books was a thread throughout the work.<br />And there are the myriad details that make the ordinary anything but. One of his very popular novels carries the title which is a translation of a phrase from the Koran, not only is it surprising, but perhaps the very last I would have guessed. There is another work that is often praised for it authenticity. In fact the Author knew little at all about the subject, he loved the title, and was encouraged to pursue the story, which he did with great success. And that is part of the great fun in reading these recollections, he shares why his books are of a certain length, the issues this raises, and how the details that are included are all the more critical as they number so few.<br />I have read books like these that have changed or ended my interest in the work of an Author with finality. In this instance do not tread lightly, barge right in. The tours of Paris, New York, restaurants, theaters, and the homes of the famously reclusive make this work read as more of a novel than simple documentation. This is not a trite piece, it is candid and deeply personal to the point of raising issues that he still cannot more than touch on, as the pain they bring forward is still to much for him.<br />Wonderful book!encouraged to pursue the story, which he did with great success. And that is part of the great fun in reading these recollections, he shares why his books are of a certain length, the issues this raises, and how the details that are included are all the more critical as they number so few.<br />I have read books like these that have changed or ended my interest in the work of an Author with finality. In this instance do not tread lightly, barge right in. The tours of Paris, New York, restaurants, theaters, and the homes of the famously reclusive make this work read as more of a novel than simple documentation. This is not a trite piece, it is candid and deeply personal to the point of raising issues that he still cannot more than touch on, as the pain they bring forward is still to much for him.<br />Wonderful book!	2001-03-08
2077744:US	53047425	RAK21P3BPDMU4	1878448919	503862002	The Long Home	Books	4	18	18	N	N	I Look Forward To The Next	When an Author can open a work with massive explosions from deep within the Earth that leave behind a gaping black pit that smells of brimstone, and not make the portrayal absurd, it is a reasonable presumption that you have the work of great storyteller in your hands. And this is certainly the case with Mr. William Gay and his work, \\"The Long Home\\".<br />The story contains elements and actions that you have read before, the conflict between good and bad/evil, fear that prevents proper conduct, revenge and redemption, all are not unfamiliar ground. However, Mr. Gay makes his own mix of these elements and creates a story that is his and not just another derivative knockoff. From the explosive pit that becomes both a crypt and a pathway that delivers what will be the truth, to the evil player with the yellow eyes of a goat, the Author definitely sets his story as a battle between opposing forces with Capital Letters.<br />The story, which is set in Tennessee, is not the typical slow motion trek through the oppressive heat of the South. That may seem like a minor point, but it is indicative of the Author's attention to detail and a portrayal that is not what is generally expected. He embeds the evil character with the appropriate darkness by sharing the story of his birth, which is anything other than routine, and perhaps not for the squeamish.<br />The book has a great cadence as the Author unfolds his story at a pace that varies and is consistent with the level of tension and movement of events that unfold. The book provides all the suspense and conflict a book of this genre requires but it does not become contrived in an effort to make you race through the pages. Events unfold with credibility, and the results when unwound are credible as well.<br />This is the first work for this Author, however he has a new work out, and it will be added to my reading list.	2001-03-07
2078068:US	53047425	ROW23D3SVS998	0393050351	41346786	Island: The Complete Stories	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Exceptional	One of the wise Elders in the story says.  \\"Music is the lubricant of the poor all over the world. In all the different languages.\\" Books like these and the people who write them provide the same comfort, and encouragement, and are a gift for readers to continue reading when there seems to be less writing of this caliber produced.  The quote from the first paragraph is actually from Mr. Alistair MacLeod's work, \\"No Great Mischief\\". It was the first novel he wrote and was one of the finest reading experiences in the last several years for me. This collection of short stories was published in 2 separate books prior to his novel, and they distinguished him as one of the great talents writing today.<br />These stories may indeed be short when measured by the page; however any given piece that you care to choose is essentially faultless. The concept of, \\"second sight\\", is a subject that arises in some of these tales, and while Mr. MacLeod may not have that particular brand of vision, he like any great writer does see things differently than most people perceive them. And his sensitivity to detail extends to the other senses, and then he is able to place it upon pages for the rest of us to enjoy. He engages the reader on every level with the environment he creates, the sounds, and the very texture of the places he brings you to. This is the kind of work that you get so deeply involved with that you think about these people as real, as real as the names of the places they live, work, and die that appear on a map.<br />I don't believe there is one transcendent theme he is presenting with these stories, there is far too much involved in each to place a label on them all. The climate is as vital as many of his characters, and he imbues it with personality that is nearly sentient. Water provides the food for eating and employment, to illustrate tradition, and to show its demise. It cruelly takes life, when as ice it is deceptive and kills, then provides the stage for heroic deeds, and also crossings that bring forth new human life to its shores. And when it is neither liquid nor solid but an amalgam, it becomes a barrier that forces a person to watch the passage of two caskets containing her Parents as the funeral cort&egrave;ge proceeds on the unreachable far shore.<br />The Author will take every emotion and not just make you feel it, but at times hurt or suffer from the intensity that he brings with his writing. A Grandmother holds her 11-year-old grandchild, and says that of her 30 grandchildren she will never know him, as his Parents do not value visits home. And the husband, his Grandfather tells the child if the interval of time is the same until he again visits, there will be no meeting as the Patriarch will most certainly be dead. Cruel words to a child? Not when this man writes the exchange. What comes through is truth and the acceptance of it, pleasant or not.<br />New technology may keep all books available sometime in the near future but that does not mean availability creates demand. Very few Authors write work that is so special that readers are interested in the work today, and in 100 years from now. This man is just such an Author. He is the type of writer that causes people to read for the pleasure of his thoughts.<br />Unconditionally recommended!eeds, and also crossings that bring forth new human life to its shores. And when it is neither liquid nor solid but an amalgam, it becomes a barrier that forces a person to watch the passage of two caskets containing her Parents as the funeral cortge proceeds on the unreachable far shore.<br />The Author will take every emotion and not just make you feel it, but at times hurt or suffer from the intensity that he brings with his writing. A Grandmother holds her 11-year-old grandchild, and says that of her 30 grandchildren she will never know him, as his Parents do not value visits home. And the husband, his Grandfather tells the child if the interval of time is the same until he again visits, there will be no meeting as the Patriarch will most certainly be dead. Cruel words to a child? Not when this man writes the exchange. What comes through is truth and the acceptance of it, pleasant or not.<br />New technology may keep all books available sometime in the near future but that does not mean availability creates demand. Very few Authors write work that is so special that readers are interested in the work today, and in 100 years from now. This man is just such an Author. He is the type of writer that causes people to read for the pleasure of his thoughts.<br />Unconditionally recommended!	2001-03-07
2078240:US	53047425	R1ODRQ4Q4G6VRV	0743200144	357460900	The Business: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Product Endorsements	This is the first work by Mr. Banks that I have read. Based on this reading experience I will try his work again, but the decision to do so was close for two reasons. Firstly, the plot was hardly new and there was not enough to make it a good spin on an old idea. Secondly, every blasted item the main character touched was branded. Just a few examples would include; her watch, her sunglasses, most of her designer clothes, about half a dozen car companies, at least three planes, and three helicopter firms, hotels, Champagne, and enough detail on a car that was not hers to fill a brochure.<br />On the very positive end I thought Ms. Telman, the book's central character was great. Bright, a wicked wit, and a female character that is strong as opposed to clich&eacute;. The fools and the typical weaknesses are generally the domain of the male, and I found this to be a pleasant change. The best example of this was her slow and painful destruction of an extremely expensive sports car while the male owner sobbed, cursed, and had his digits damaged by turn, as she convinced him to chat. The car's owner could have bought a fleet of them, so the Author's portrayal of his insane behavior about the car, was all the more entertaining.<br />Like other books of this type the story travels around the globe a few times with the expected national Capitols making an appearance. Thrown into the mix is a Prince, a Dowager Queen who has kept to her \\"bed\\" for nearly 3 decades, and an endearing curmudgeon with a taste for fast cars.<br />The book is entertaining but I doubt the Author's best. While there are books of this type that are better, there are far more that are worse.<br />Call it 3.5 stars.	2001-03-07
2080852:US	53047425	R2NNBSTV22ADMF	0684867575	711966516	True Summit: What Really Happened on the Legendary Ascent of Annapurna	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Corrects A Distorted Record	I am not a climber and I enjoyed this book. The story that is shared is about human faults that can be applied to a variety of experiences, they are not limited to events on the world's great mountains. I was also drawn to the book, as it was a discussion of the first climbers to summit the mountain, and a climber on the fatal Everest 1996 died on the same mountain, Annapurna.<br />Mr. David Roberts did a nice job of bringing the reader along and sharing the climb and the distorted history that followed. More importantly he helped to reinforce what appears to be the truth about the climb, and to apportion credit as it should have been done so many decades ago.<br />I have read several accounts of the 1996 Everest expedition that caused so much loss of life, and to my surprise so much finger pointing by those who survived the ordeal. Many memories seemed to be influenced by the mental strain the mountain causes in climbers at the highest altitudes, but some seemed to persist even when photographs contradicted a given Author's statement. The climbers in 1996 had experienced guides and protective clothing that the first climbers on Annapurna would have thought to be the creation of science fiction. So, as Mr. Roberts began his story it seemed to be a case of memories created when badly injured bodies, and oxygen-deprived minds had left gaps. Even on the miserable trek back, people using morphine and suffering amputations, and dozens of other tortures recounted much of the originally published story.<br />Just as human nature was able to overcome hideous physical events, it too was able to distort the record for the benefit of one man at the expense of others who climbed with him, attained the summit with him, and saved his life. The beneficiary of the distortions was alive and interviewed for this book, and it was those interviews, combined with the evidence proving the true story that made this correcting of the historical record so important.<br />Mr. Maurice Herzog clearly intended for the historical outcome he contrived, and that nearly became the permanent record, to be the only record. From the oath he administered to his \\"teammates\\" to his continuing denial of the facts, and his refusal to allow access to records that further document the truth, Mr. Herzog took what was a group success that could have been nothing other than positive, and distorted it into a personal fantasy that provided him a lifetime of security which he had no more right to than the other men he climbed with. He would not allow the Author to print a picture of the other man who made the top with him, how vain, petty, and pathetic.<br />It would be convenient to say an old man's memory is faulty, but as he demonstrated himself, Mr. Herzog may indeed be advanced in years, but he is what he was, a pathetic self promoter that fictionalized an event that was extraordinary, it needed no embellishment, and the triumph certainly did not need to be the domain of one vain individual.clearly intended for the historical outcome he contrived, and that nearly became the permanent record, to be the only record. From the oath he administered to his \\"teammates\\" to his continuing denial of the facts, and his refusal to allow access to records that further document the truth, Mr. Herzog took what was a group success that could have been nothing other than positive, and distorted it into a personal fantasy that provided him a lifetime of security which he had no more right to than the other men he climbed with. He would not allow the Author to print a picture of the other man who made the top with him, how vain, petty, and pathetic.<br />It would be convenient to say an old man's memory is faulty, but as he demonstrated himself, Mr. Herzog may indeed be advanced in years, but he is what he was, a pathetic self promoter that fictionalized an event that was extraordinary, it needed no embellishment, and the triumph certainly did not need to be the domain of one vain individual.	2001-03-05
2083464:US	53047425	RH75RJZCWAKKV	0802134467	200437288	For Every Sin (Appelfeld, Aharon)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Only A Survivor	It may appear simplistic/extreme to say only a survivor of Genocide can write with credibility on the topic. A great Novelist can take a reader anywhere; an excellent Historian can document every detail of an event. I have read books by the latter two and they do communicate the horror of Genocide, however when a person with the talent of a great writer who also is a survivor writes on the topic, there is a difference, a great difference. Fortunately for the Historical Record Mr. Aharon Appelfeld is just such a man, and when he tells a tale he communicates feelings that are more disturbing, and that resonate longer than just a recital of facts no matter how shocking.<br />With his book, \\"For Every Sin\\", he again uses the form of a novel to share experiences of a survivor making his way home after the War. Very little of the emotion that his character Theo feels is what you would expect, and the same holds true for many other players in the book. Many of the emotions and the plans that people make in the book are a direct result of their wartime experiences, and they rarely are what a reader would expect. And yet every action makes sense after Mr. Appelfeld tells the story.<br />Some Jews converted to Christianity before the war in the hope they would not then be found by the Nazis. The step was taken to preserve life. The Author deals with the following paradox, a man survives the camp, the war, the attempt to destroy the people he is a part of. If a person were to lose all faith it would not be hard to understand, but Theo is returning home so that he may convert to Christianity after he has survived. The reactions of those other survivors he meets cover the range of reactions from understanding, to violence regarding his decision.<br /> The remarkable effects of this book are the people that the Author brings to us, and even more interesting their behavior. Theo is determined and states to all he meets what his goal is, however he seems to walk back as often as he does forward. Violence against a fellow survivor would seem to be unthinkable, judgments about another based on religious belief, again would seem impossible based on what was survived, and why it happened.<br />Only the Author knows what he was attempting to portray or perhaps teach. I believe at least one subject was how little some people change, or how little some people change after the most unimaginable experiences. How people of shared experience have been so harmed that they cannot trust or sympathize with those that have had the same experience.<br />It may also be true that if you have not experienced the most extreme human atrocity you never can truly understand what the victims suffered. Knowing a survivor may bring you closer, but even that may not be close enough. Mr. Appelfeld makes a reader feel very uncomfortable as the work is read. And perhaps that is the best anyone can do. Bring a reader as close as they can, disturb them as much as they can, and know that still, the true horror of the experience is known only to its victims.does forward. Violence against a fellow survivor would seem to be unthinkable, judgments about another based on religious belief, again would seem impossible based on what was survived, and why it happened.<br />Only the Author knows what he was attempting to portray or perhaps teach. I believe at least one subject was how little some people change, or how little some people change after the most unimaginable experiences. How people of shared experience have been so harmed that they cannot trust or sympathize with those that have had the same experience.<br />It may also be true that if you have not experienced the most extreme human atrocity you never can truly understand what the victims suffered. Knowing a survivor may bring you closer, but even that may not be close enough. Mr. Appelfeld makes a reader feel very uncomfortable as the work is read. And perhaps that is the best anyone can do. Bring a reader as close as they can, disturb them as much as they can, and know that still, the true horror of the experience is known only to its victims.	2001-03-02
2086761:US	53047425	RU6BBZXNJEIG7	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	67	70	N	N	An Exceptional Historian	An exceptional book is like an exceptional teacher; an academic career may only provide one or two memorable teachers, while books because of their constant renewal offer many opportunities for memorable Authors/Teachers. Mr. Joseph Ellis has produced just such a literary rarity with his work, \\"Founding Brothers\\". The events surrounding The American Revolution are familiar in generalities to most, and the information is generally romanticized beyond recognition. The Author has a very informative as well as a strong, appealing narrative style that communicates a wealth of facts but does not induce the drowsiness of many historical works whose pages turn as if made of lead.<br />Some have taken issue with the Author's style as being too loose or informal, and by implication arguably less than accurate. The notes at the book's end are not normally an area I spend a great deal of time with, however in this instance the Author shares his philosophy toward providing \\"sensible\\" documentation to his book. I believe this is refreshing and answers any critics. Firstly, a complete listing of references would be longer than the book, and a completely honest disclosure would require that he dredge up every piece of information that he has read and been influenced by for 30 years. Finally, he comments on those sources he has found to be particularly useful to his work, and they were interesting enough for a reader to enjoy as well.<br />Everyone will have their favorite from amongst the six sections of the book. I believe they all are uniformly excellent, however two were of greater interest to me.<br />\\"The Duel\\" that took place between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton in 1804 is an oft-mentioned bit of this Country's History.  I have read many accounts of the event and none approach the level of detail and perceptive commentary that Mr. Ellis has presented. This death of one man, and the death of another's career is a vastly complicated event. It is true the actual discharging of weapons took only a moment, and that is usually where the analysis stops, and then the consequences that follow are listed. Happily in this work this is not the case as the Author brings nearly 2 decades of acrimony between these two men to bear on why they eventually found themselves in mortal conflict. This background is documented with depth but also with restraint, all the information without needless additional commentary. Mr. Ellis writes very well. He can enjoy an economical use of words, as he does not suffer from the impairment of being fascinated with the sound of his thoughts.<br />\\"The Friendship\\" has to be one of the most eloquent expositions of the final years of relations between 2 former Presidents, Adams and Jefferson. They may have been writing to one another, however they also documented their ideas of what the Revolution was for and what it meant, that the two men were polar opposites, from their style of speech, to their politics, personal conduct, and what they believed they had done for History, only makes the reading all the better. Again the Author communicates grand theories of these men, without getting tangled in minutiae.<br />The Author clearly knows his subjects and he shares and expands his reader's knowledge with the skill that he employs with his pen. He is not a man who suffers from hero worship, nor is he a revisionist. Mr. Ellis does not present these Revolutionary players with the faade of Patriotism hiding faults, nor does he lack the objectivity to present all the players with scholarly detachment.<br />If more Historians wrote in this style we would not be subject to the surveys that routinely demonstrate how Historically illiterate our Children and many adults are. History can be fascinating, or lethally dull. Those who present it will determine what we will know of our past, and happily Mr. Ellis is at the forefront of documenting History with style that is enticing to read, and with content that is meticulous and objective.<br />Unconditionally recommended!ective.<br />Unconditionally recommended!	2001-02-28
2088219:US	53047425	R38V4WHNBJ4CWY	0805210997	986509919	The Iron Tracks: A novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Authentic	I have read three books about the Holocaust in the last several days, 2 that are exceptional, and one that was exploitative trash. The interesting aspect is that the two works that were so emotionally effective, works that left this reader feeling the weight and oppressive horror that is genocide were both novels. They were novels by an extraordinary writer and a survivor of the camps, Mr. Aharon Appelfeld. I do not know the numbers, but I would venture to guess that the non-fiction book which is commented on somewhere on my personal page, will outsell this work 100 to one, or maybe even a higher ratio. The non-fiction work is either the appendage to a lawsuit, or the bacillus that spawned it, either way its type of history is cheap opportunism. The fact the book is full of histrionics, incompetent business documentation, and shrill sound bytes, ensures it will sell. The issue it covers is valid; it's the Author's methods I take issue with.<br />\\"The Iron Tracks\\", is a terribly disturbing look at one man's life to avenge the death of his parents. It is a journey he set out on alone, and one he sees through to its conclusion, again on his own. Like his main character that also survived the camps the Author writes this book because serious subjects, horrifying subjects need to be documented repeatedly. And for those who ask how many books are enough, the answer is there will never be enough, enough of this type. As to the other I refer to the answer is in its specific case, one is too many. Releasing a book within 24 hours of a lawsuit against the company the book is about is the vilest sort of marketing there is, for remember this is about the murder of millions. This is not a topic that requires marketing, Madison Avenue manipulation, and greed to drive it. The horror of Genocide is absolute the evil is absolute. To speak or write of it brings the full weight to bear no enhancements are needed.<br />Erwin rides the same trains endlessly for decades in search of the man and his demise that he believes will end his decades of suffering and wandering. He constantly meets with other veterans of the war who believe that the Genocide was not only correct and justified, but also actually accomplished. He traces his self described oval with his annual stops, and how the oval is chipped away at as his sharing he is a Jew is freely confided with those who have welcomed him for decades, but now turn their backs without hesitation. In his decades long hunt he also retrieves the lost objects of Judaism, be they rare illuminated Haggadah, a mezuza, or a kiddush cup.<br />This is only the second work I have read by Mr. Appelfeld, but based on this and, \\"Katerina\\"; I intend to continue through his published works. The subject matter he has spent his career as a writer sharing with the world's readers is the type that appropriately leaves a reader emotionally exhausted, bearing a sense of futility, and trying to summon the question why, once again.<br />Read both Authors' work and decide for yourself.man and his demise that he believes will end his decades of suffering and wandering. He constantly meets with other veterans of the war who believe that the Genocide was not only correct and justified, but also actually accomplished. He traces his self described oval with his annual stops, and how the oval is chipped away at as his sharing he is a Jew is freely confided with those who have welcomed him for decades, but now turn their backs without hesitation. In his decades long hunt he also retrieves the lost objects of Judaism, be they rare illuminated Haggadah, a mezuza, or a kiddush cup.<br />This is only the second work I have read by Mr. Appelfeld, but based on this and, \\"Katerina\\"; I intend to continue through his published works. The subject matter he has spent his career as a writer sharing with the world's readers is the type that appropriately leaves a reader emotionally exhausted, bearing a sense of futility, and trying to summon the question why, once again.<br />Read both Authors' work and decide for yourself.	2001-02-26
2088637:US	53047425	R2U77WH51SSBWF	0865473897	497372117	Dusk and Other Stories	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Not Always Uplifting But Tremendous Nonetheless	I feel well written short stories are exceptional, and with, \\"Dusk And Other Stories\\", Mr. James Salter again demonstrates that his skills are not diminished when the length of his stories are. Short stories are often complete thoughts or fully played out events, however fragmentary they may be. Others tend to stop. They end. You wonder why. Those in the latter group I tend to dislike as a reasonable ending, even if vague, does not seem to be a great deal to ask. Some that I have read simply stop because the idea stopped. Some find this stylish I find it weak.<br />Mr. Salter offers up the complete and the not so final in this book and they all are enjoyable. Even those that end abruptly like, \\"Am Strande von Tanger\\" feels less casually abrupt as the penultimate sentences or perhaps the paragraph brings closure. The remarks that are the final sentence seem less critical.  In other stories like, \\"Dusk\\", the finality and completeness is almost brutal. The imagery of lost love and a dying bird in a field is poetic as writing and vicious as to the emotion it describes.<br />If you have read any of this Author's other work you may find bits of characters that you have encountered in the past, or similar locales they have transited. The familiarity real or imagined is welcomed as it brings back other great moments in this man's work. I have read 4 of his novels and this collection of short stories, all are excellent some more so than others. If you were looking for a new Author you would be hard pressed to find higher quality writing than this.	2001-02-26
2089599:US	53047425	R16U614G6NIEMZ	0865472106	798946796	A Sport and a Pastime: A Novel	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Accurate Title	In, \\"Light Years\\", Mr. Salter explored a variety of relationships amongst men and women. In, \\"A Sport And A Pastime\\", the topic is revisited with a narrower focus. However when the couple that is the focus of this tale makes their way through France, they explore a variety of activities while never taking on responsibility.<br />Dean is a young bored man who finds that the traditional steps of growth and maturity are not for him. Easily bored rarely satisfied, France becomes a place he escapes to, a locale to meet a partner, a place to once again become restless. He is a clich&eacute;, however the woman that becomes his playmate is not the traditional beauty a clich&eacute; would search out, in this case type does not seek itself. Little about him is as it seems, not necessarily false, rather shallow, a light dew versus a downpour perhaps. These facets of his become even more interesting when the narrator enters the triangle of two lovers and a voyeur.<br />Anne-Marie is his companion at best and better described as an object, and not an unwilling one. The story is a trip, an exploration that is as intense physically as it is emotionally bereft. Anne-Marie seems to know and accept what she has and what he is not, and willingly explores the pristine frontiers of her physicality. One of the more interesting aspects of the writing this time is the intensity of their physical relationship that the Author can share in a few generalities with the details following along.<br />What makes the book unique is either the voyeur who narrates, or the manner the narrator is used. Is this third party truly an intimate of this couple, are their activities his imagination, his fantasies, where does the Author blur and draw the line? The book is interesting but is not one of the best of Mr. Salter's novels. It may be the perspective of the time in which it is written as opposed to when it is read, or it may just be the reader's personal limits that are pushed. Ultimately it matters very little, as even when you may not feel you are reading the best of his work, it is still superior to most other writers.as even when you may not feel you are reading the best of his work, it is still superior to most other writers.	2001-02-25
2089627:US	53047425	R3Q3OVIPUDR6Z4	0385498144	474830346	Gabriel's Story	Books	2	9	12	N	N	One Reason	Mr. Jeffrey Lent the Author of, \\"In The Fall\\" was the only person who supplied a comment on this book's jacket. And that was enough reason for me to get the book, as, \\"Into The Fall\\", was one of the best books I had read last year, and I hoped, \\"Gabriel's Story\\", would approach that work in quality. The book does not, the story does not, and the writing does not.<br />I liked the premise of an emancipated family settling and beginning a new life in Kansas, and I looked forward to the Author providing a fresh perspective on the theme. None of this happened as the portion of the book dedicated to the Family's experience is minimal prior to Gabriel leaving his Family for, \\"higher adventure\\". The majority of the book is Gabriel playing witness to, and hearing stories that are clich&eacute;, brutally violent, random, and basically pointless. A sampling of events includes multiple murders for which there is no motivation other than a thirst for blood. Rape is second on the list but only because there is less opportunity for it to be committed. Victims are not simply killed, they are disemboweled with great descriptive detail, and castration while the victim is alive is another light touch. Staking a person on an anthill is also another form of amusement.<br />Every nauseating historical prejudice is discussed at length, with extended drunken and sober monologue dedicated to racism, and the explanation of why the extermination of the Native Americans is not only correct but also necessary.<br />The very brief description of the book on the jacket should have been a sign of how little was contained within. Gabriel is described as a youth, which is appropriate for a 15 year old, but then becomes a man a paragraph later. You can attempt to place all manner of meaning on this bloody trip across a portion of America, or you can take the book for what it is. This is about a kid who runs away from home, is taken in by and follows a group of serial killers, rapists and racists, and then loops back around and comes home once again. If the runaway theme seems familiar it is, for it has been written dozens of times and almost all better than this example.<br />Trying to raise this to the level of a, \\"Prodigal Son\\" story, or a coming of age story just does not work. The time that passes from beginning to end is not long enough for any accumulation of knowledge. Merely witnessing mindless violence does not qualify as a profound trip through life, lasting just over one year's time.<br />The most interesting character does not speak until three quarters of the book has passed. And when she does the talent the Author may have in later works is shown albeit briefly. When a book lacks an endorsement from even one reliable press or literary source, and relies on an Author with one book to his credit, the blame should fall on the buyer if he or she is disappointed. I made this mistake once before when I accepted a well-liked Author's opinion only to be subjected to mediocre work, I will not do so again. And that's unfortunate, as many new Authors don't always come with endorsements. They were no accolades for this work. They were appropriately absent.loops back around and comes home once again. If the runaway theme seems familiar it is, for it has been written dozens of times and almost all better than this example.<br />Trying to raise this to the level of a, \\"Prodigal Son\\" story, or a coming of age story just does not work. The time that passes from beginning to end is not long enough for any accumulation of knowledge. Merely witnessing mindless violence does not qualify as a profound trip through life, lasting just over one year's time.<br />The most interesting character does not speak until three quarters of the book has passed. And when she does the talent the Author may have in later works is shown albeit briefly. When a book lacks an endorsement from even one reliable press or literary source, and relies on an Author with one book to his credit, the blame should fall on the buyer if he or she is disappointed. I made this mistake once before when I accepted a well-liked Author's opinion only to be subjected to mediocre work, I will not do so again. And that's unfortunate, as many new Authors don't always come with endorsements. They were no accolades for this work. They were appropriately absent.	2001-02-25
2091554:US	53047425	R1LSARMO42G482	067973726X	881602825	A Fortunate Man: The Story of a Country Doctor	Books	5	5	6	N	N	If They All Could Be As This Man	Mr. John Berger calls this work an essay, a word that does not bring to my mind great literary work. It brings back memories of forced reading and documentation. \\"A Fortunate Man\\", is a literary accomplishment, it is another example of this Author's skills and to the man this book is a tribute to. Additionally the photographs of Jean Mohr bring a sense of hyperrealism to this documentary of one Doctor's practice, the world in which he lives, and the lives he cares for. Many of the black and white images brought to mind the Artist Andrew Wyeth as he too has documented the life of those traditionally not thought to be extraordinary, but who are the foundations of our society.<br />Photographs are not generally found in most popular literature. Images are the realm of the Author and the creations he or she can conjure in the mind's eye of a reader. Some would comment pictures are inappropriate; they intrude, or at worst become a crutch for weak writing. Others would say each reader should have their own visual experience, their own reference points they create when reading another's work. But in this collaboration the images and words compliment one another, and like the words that are black and white, the photographer too makes her contribution in shades from black to white, and the result is simply extraordinary.<br />There are moments when the Author becomes a poet adding but a few lines to an otherwise lone photograph, and the feeling evoked has more impact than chapters of lesser writers. Mr. Berger describes a landscape as perhaps being other than a stage where events unfold, and actually being a screen or curtain that hides life's events. Landscapes for him are, \\"biographical and personal\\", read that thought with the photograph it compliments and you feel as though you have experienced an entire novel.<br />Dr. John Sassall is the man that all this excellence in words and images were gathered for and he is deserving of every bit of the talent used. He is a country Doctor, he is pure in his motivation as his patients are what he lives for, his drive is to ease suffering, cure, and be the comforting presence when death is at hand. He is the type of Doctor that any reader would consider himself or herself fortunate to have. He is the confidant of every age, every generation, he is an advisor but never one who preaches, opines or judges. He is part of the lives of his patients, he knows them, and knows that illness is not always a physical ailment. His understanding, and using his seemingly casual, spontaneous questions often cure what no medicine could ever reach. He is a friend to everyone. In him all place their trust that is absolute.<br />This is an overwhelming book to read even though the time you may spend reading and looking through it may be brief. For Mr. Berger and Ms. Mohr raise and document the most fundamental concerns we all have, how this Doctor deals with them, and how most of the world does not.<br />The Author says that our Society wastes by \\"enforced hypocrisy\\"; emptying lives it does not destroy. Dr. Sassall is the answer to this future containing nothing, and his story is presented in a way that will move you, as few books of any genre will do.ry Doctor, he is pure in his motivation as his patients are what he lives for, his drive is to ease suffering, cure, and be the comforting presence when death is at hand. He is the type of Doctor that any reader would consider himself or herself fortunate to have. He is the confidant of every age, every generation, he is an advisor but never one who preaches, opines or judges. He is part of the lives of his patients, he knows them, and knows that illness is not always a physical ailment. His understanding, and using his seemingly casual, spontaneous questions often cure what no medicine could ever reach. He is a friend to everyone. In him all place their trust that is absolute.<br />This is an overwhelming book to read even though the time you may spend reading and looking through it may be brief. For Mr. Berger and Ms. Mohr raise and document the most fundamental concerns we all have, how this Doctor deals with them, and how most of the world does not.<br />The Author says that our Society wastes by \\"enforced hypocrisy\\"; emptying lives it does not destroy. Dr. Sassall is the answer to this future containing nothing, and his story is presented in a way that will move you, as few books of any genre will do.	2001-02-24
2092048:US	53047425	R2PIOWTEFKFPQ7	0679767770	451118892	To the Wedding	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Unconditional	There is an event in this book that demonstrates the wonderful manner that John Berger consistently illuminates his readers, and his characters. The task in and of itself is of no great note; a small boat is guided from the shore to a small island. Gino who is taking his reluctant fianc&eacute; on the trip guides the boat. Ninon is not concerned about the trip rather Gino's insistence that they marry. The trip to the island is accomplished in several steps to allow for currents both known and unpredictable. When the crossing is accomplished and Ninon continues to question the point of the exercise, Gino explains it has nothing to do with the island as a destination, but the trip that illustrates, \\"how we're going to live\\".<br />The couple decides to marry but before they do human weakness steps in and irrevocably alters the future they had planed. Neither conventional wisdom nor anyone who knows either member of the couple believes the wedding should take place. The bride to be is amongst those who wish to see the union forever cancelled. Gino is the only person willing to see through what his love for this woman has become for him, a commitment without condition.<br />The Author surrounds this couple with all the variants of marriage. He includes the innocent moments that lead to the first shared intimacies, and he has the unions that have failed to overcome the difficulties they encountered. Throughout this process he forces the reader to make some difficult observations either personally or through a given character they may identify with. The Wedding that is supposed to take place is like a vortex drawing all the participants and observers to the main event, the core. When all the players have made their own journeys, Gino is no longer the odd man out. He has come to define an ideal; he has always known what is right and what the consequences would be.<br />A cynic might question Gino based upon the issue of time, however this would be an error. Time firstly is an artificial human construct, and even if used as a measure we know nothing about its allotment to each of us, not what will transpire during our portion. Gino does not suffer from the arrogance of presumption of time and its length. And the Author John Berger must understand this as well, for no one could communicate this more clearly, and with the contemporary relevance than he does, if it wasn't his own philosophy as well.ificial human construct, and even if used as a measure we know nothing about its allotment to each of us, not what will transpire during our portion. Gino does not suffer from the arrogance of presumption of time and its length. And the Author John Berger must understand this as well, for no one could communicate this more clearly, and with the contemporary relevance than he does, if it wasn't his own philosophy as well.	2001-02-23
2092480:US	53047425	R17T4OLSUQP6QI	034540100X	274569076	Gangster	Books	4	7	8	N	N	If You Like The Genre	Comparisons to Mario Puzo's work are always going to be made when a new Author adds his work to the organized crime genre, especially when the tale spans generations. Readers seem to be unusually protective of the Godfather Saga so an Author must tread carefully if he or she decides to enter this arena at all. The feeling of territoriality with Mr. Puzo is understandable, as he created the classic by which all others will be judged.<br />Mr. Carcaterra has produced a worthwhile and enjoyable read about his fictional characters in 20th century organized crime. \\"Gangster\\", is familiar in the sense it is derivative, but the Author's knowledge and occasional use of real members of the crime world allow the reader to slip into a sense of reading Historical Fiction. He does not glamorize the lifestyle, his players are very tough, and when violence is used it is with brutal and graphic finality. There are no shades of gray in this depiction of crime, loyalty may be absolute without being forever, and the idea that no one can be trusted extends to the people you have known since you were a child.<br />The three primary characters are all brought together in unusual ways and the Author maintains the entirety and hidden detail of the relationships until the final page. This may sound contrived, and with a weaker Author it would be. Happily, Mr. Carcaterra clearly knows and enjoys that which he writes about. The world he presents is one of obsessive pursuit of power for its own sake. The material gains that are a by-product of \\"success\\" in the word his characters occupy quickly become relatively meaningless. He illustrates this beautifully when far younger generations of Gangsters decide their time has come, and that of the old men has passed. The different motivations of the groups determine conduct, demonstrate the most casual concern for lives, and finally determine the outcome of the conflicts.<br />It was noted that this story was to become a television event. My initial reaction was to leave it and move on, as books/scripts and screenplays hold no interest for me. These tend to be compromises in writing style with the result being mediocre at best. This is absolutely not the case with, \\"Gangster\\"; it is well written and enjoyable to read. And one player accomplishes something even Michael Corleone never did.reaction was to leave it and move on, as books/scripts and screenplays hold no interest for me. These tend to be compromises in writing style with the result being mediocre at best. This is absolutely not the case with, \\"Gangster\\"; it is well written and enjoyable to read. And one player accomplishes something even Michael Corleone never did.	2001-02-23
2092701:US	53047425	R2NTS1E3UWK3KJ	0670893730	295906635	The Hill Bachelors	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Actions/Consequences And There Debris	This is the first time that I have read the work of Mr. William Trevor. If his collection of short stories, \\"Hill Bachelors\\", is any indication of the man's talent I will read whatever else has been published. The volume contains 12 stories that all share parallels, however they do not need to be read as a collection, they all can stand-alone.<br />The stories could be classified as redemptive, however at least one describes a Faustian Bargain. Many of the stories are dark, and others bear results that were never intended. Still others are the results from lack of attention or care, and they are of wreckage both physical and mental. I think it is valid to say they describe the fragility of many relationships, and the ignorance that prevents the forming of contact until a destructive event takes place. It is not a collection of tales that portrays the best in people, but it somehow does not read as oppressively as the storylines would seem to demand.<br />One story details a horrible crime and uses a snapped rose bush as a metaphor. The same unlikely force cleans up the debris from both, before the mess from either becomes too great. A wedding eve party shows how uncertain the next day's events can be when the smallest of unintended events does or does not take place. My favorite had to do with Priests and Ministers, burned out homes and lost congregations. In this story Mr. Trevor illustrates the senseless behavior of a people, a nation, and the religions they adhere to. He brings together that which should not meet, and the result is what should happen but somehow surprises when it does.<br />This is a wonderful set of stories that are all complete, however when read together have enough commonality that the Author's message is not so much repeated as it is reinforced as they are read. Marvelous writing, highly recommended.	2001-02-23
2095158:US	53047425	R10JY4LCDDBP75	0609607995	769420448	IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America's Most Powerful Corporation	Books	3	29	43	N	N	Pure Evil	Genocide is pure evil. There are no special circumstances that<br />mitigate the action. If an individual is complicit in the<br />implementation of Genocide they are part of that evil. If an<br />individual or Corporation facilitates the administration of the<br />genocide, they or the company again are a part of that evil. Genocide<br />is not unique to the Germany of the Nazi's, they were not the first,<br />and they were not the final practitioners of the crime.<br />Because a<br />book documents unethical/amoral behavior by a company, in this case<br />IBM, the book is not automatically deserving of praise. It is not<br />automatically a scholarly work. It is not immune from the same<br />standards that any serious Historian must adhere to. Based on my<br />reading of Mr. Edwin Black's book I believe IBM is certainly guilty of<br />bending every rule they could, breaking them when bending did not<br />work, and allowed business ethics to guide their decisions as opposed<br />to the most minimal ethical standards that should guide any individual<br />or company.<br />Mr. Black has written about a valid topic. His decision<br />to make it a shrill editorial at times, and at others to communicate<br />his ignorance of basic business practices eliminates this book from<br />the level of accuracy and excellence that true scholarship<br />requires. Some examples should be noted to make my point. 1.IBM put<br />the blitz in krieg. 2.He compares Hitler's Brownshirts singing and<br />swaying to their anti Semitic nonsense, to IBM salesmen in Blue Suits<br />singing Company songs in New York. 3.He would have readers believe<br />that the world was aware and enraged about Hitler and his \\"Final<br />Solution\\" in 1933. This is pure nonsense, as any reputable<br />Historian will affirm. Even Mr. Black finally gets to the accepted<br />Historical dates of the final solution. This unfortunately is not the<br />only inconsistency in the book. Mr. Black on more than one occasion<br />will temper inflammatory editorial at the book's beginning with<br />well-known facts at the end.<br />On page 280 Mr. Black begins an<br />explanation of a financial maneuver that IBM implemented that was<br />absolutely motivated by profit, and in no way influenced by events in<br />Germany. However neither Mr. Black, his editors, proofreaders or<br />anyone else corrected an extremely simplistic business event.<br />This<br />is important because it is so basic and so wrong and so repeated to<br />illustrate a very valid point... The issue was IBM taking funds from a<br />blocked account and investing the funds in their German subsidiary<br />effecting the issuance of new stock. In point of fact doubling the<br />company's investment. This action is about as far from \\"any other<br />stock split\\" as can be imagined. The damaging point he was<br />attempting to make was that IBM increased its investment in Germany<br />rather than be limited by 6% dividend caps, and severe tax<br />penalties. A \\"stock split\\" does not increase investment, it does<br />not increase value, it does not enrich shareholders. If you own 1<br />share out of 100, after a split you own 2 shares of 200. You own the<br />same amount of the company nothing changes. It is the most basic of<br />math. IBM doubled their investment with a cash infusion, this is an<br />entirely different event, and totally changes the complexion of what<br />the Author was trying to communicate, and the level of noxious<br />behavior IBM was a party to....<br />You will<br />have to get by nonsense he espouses like; the dawn of technology was<br />the sunset of humane conduct. He evidently missed the Genocide in<br />Armenia, Lenin's and Stalin's Russia to name only three. How about the<br />Genocide of people of color via the slave trade that legally continued<br />for centuries prior to The Corporal showing up. How about the Native<br />Americans in The United States?<br />IBM was clearly<br />interested inmaking money and securing international market share<br />ahead of any concerns about how their machines were being used. Do<br />those that conducted the business during the time deserve<br />condemnation, absolutely. And while we are at it let's be sure to<br />include all the companies that were guilty. If you selectively choose<br />companies, you selectively write History. When this happens you come<br />dangerously close to revisionism, and that is a contemptible<br />act.<br />The book and the subject is valid History...<br />The IBM machine is one of<br />the first displays when entering the museum. It drew so much attention<br />prior to this book, the display had to be scaled down. While this book<br />may be the first in depth study of the topic, it is hardly the<br />exposition of an unknown topic that this Author would have you believe<br />he has introduced to the world.guilty. If you selectively choose companies, you selectively write History. When this happens you come dangerously close to revisionism, and that is a contemptible act.<br />The book and the subject is valid History...<br />The IBM machine is one of the first displays when entering the museum. It drew so much attention prior to this book, the display had to be scaled down. While this book may be the first in depth study of the topic, it is hardly the exposition of an unknown topic that this Author would have you believe he has introduced to the world.	2001-02-21
2103871:US	53047425	R1PHC3E308L4TL	0393311104	605567350	Katerina	Books	4	15	15	N	N	New Look At Terror	\\"Katerina\\" by Aaron Appelfeld is an original look at The Holocaust. This is a piece of history, an event that has been written about countless times, but this writer's perspective is unique. The book is a historical novel; however the circumstances he describes could have, and probably did happen in very similar form.<br />The protagonist Katerina is not a Jew, she is not raised to respect Jews, and her surroundings are that of anti Semitism. However events lead to her working for a Jewish Family, and as the years pass she learns to understand their culture and their religious beliefs. As her knowledge grows so does her respect for them and with it a steady degrading of the hatred for anti-Semitism she can no longer justify.<br />A horrifying act of cruelty to which she reasonably responds leads to her imprisonment. And it is in this prison setting the Author creates for her decades of fear and loathing of those she came from and their hatred of Jews for which she feels such contempt. Her one consistent visitor is her Lawyer, again a Jew. She is kept in this prison where the trains that carry the Holocaust's victims pass by each day. She lives with people who happily celebrate the genocide while clothing themselves in the victim's clothes and other personal effects that were confiscated.<br />After half of her life is passed in prison the War ends and the prisoners walk free. Even her freedom is tainted, as she is forced to endure the celebratory attitude of her fellow prisoners that all the Jews are gone, the killers of Christ have themselves been killed. So even when she returns to her village that she left behind 63 years in her past she does so knowing the people she adopted as equals have been decimated, and people that never knew her then, now know her as the murderess, the legend she has become.<br />The Author portrays a scene of this very old woman coming upon what was a Temple, and the effect of the writing is as galvanizing as any thing you may read. This is a book that is unlike others books about the Genocide of WWII, all the horror is there, but it is left more to your mind's eye than placed before you in all its historical butchery. The emotional trauma this woman endures during the War combined with the balance of her suffering in life, is of a magnitude that is awesome both in its scope and depth of despair.is a book that is unlike others books about the Genocide of WWII, all the horror is there, but it is left more to your mind's eye than placed before you in all its historical butchery. The emotional trauma this woman endures during the War combined with the balance of her suffering in life, is of a magnitude that is awesome both in its scope and depth of despair.	2001-02-14
2104559:US	53047425	R9JH3C81K12QP	0679740732	934590868	Light Years	Books	5	110	122	N	N	Courage	The courage to live life as it changes, as the faults that went unseen in the initial rush of novelty emerge, to adapt, continue and be happy, content, this I believe is the heart of this work. The small imperfections that erode to fatal flaws as the years pass, the union of marriage that grows old, and regret and a desire for something new becomes an obsession.  And if the freedom is regained can it ever be as it was anticipated. How can anything desired for years, embellished and romanticized for decades ever deliver contentment?<br />The marriage of Nedra and Viri act more like a parenthetical that contains the entire novel and its events, than they serve as the focal point. The dozens of friends on almost as many levels of intimacy all revolve around the married couple, the former couple, or the individuals they believe they become for a second time. Is contentment the equivalent of stagnation; is it predestined for most, or voluntary for the few?<br />Mr. Salter continues in, \\"Light Years\\", what he has done in all 3 of the novels I have read thus far. The people he creates transcend whatever story he presents them in. The personalities he creates are wonderful not because they entertain with their uniqueness or their contrived eccentricities, but because of how normal they are, or perhaps familiar. This is not to suggest they are clich&eacute;, they are everything but that, they are people you know, people you may meet, or a character that you find a part of you is within.<br />One of the beauties of what this man is capable of with his writing is reaching very deeply into the thoughts and fears that inhabit almost all of us. He does not presume, he does not judge or lecture, he just lets you look through your minds eye, and decide for yourself. There are the affairs, but even when the most intimate of acts takes place he handles it in a manner that is clear, pure, evocative, but never does he stoop to the profane. His treatment of the females he writes about is done with respect; he does not objectify the women he writes of even if they seem to offer themselves in a manner that would justify the word object. Males and females are flawed, they err, and they can seek answers and redemption, and again he lets you decide, he does not hand down Judgement.<br />This is an amazing writer that I either missed, or many have, as his is some of the best work I have ever read. Comparisons are really unnecessary, take what you like about your favorite writers, and you will find something to love in this man's work.with respect; he does not objectify the women he writes of even if they seem to offer themselves in a manner that would justify the word object. Males and females are flawed, they err, and they can seek answers and redemption, and again he lets you decide, he does not hand down Judgement.<br />This is an amazing writer that I either missed, or many have, as his is some of the best work I have ever read. Comparisons are really unnecessary, take what you like about your favorite writers, and you will find something to love in this man's work.	2001-02-13
2106381:US	53047425	R3SEKCSPROMUPO	0865473218	992432037	Solo Faces: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Individual Again	The first novel I read by Mr. Salter was, \\"The Hunters\\", which while deemed a novel was the result of his experiences as a combat pilot in Korea. In, \\"Solo Faces\\", he again describes an activity that ultimately is as lonely as being the sole occupant of a fighter aircraft. The primary difference would appear to be that climbing and all the danger involved, no matter how compulsive the desire to do it, is voluntary. It is true that in both instances there is a measure of safety, the climber is roped to another; on belay his safety in the hands of another. In Korea his character would have a wingman that was never to leave him, again was his measure of protection. Climbing partners fall, wingmen get shot down, ultimately the pilot and the climber are alone.<br />Again he explores the human motivation of those who climb, the less savory aspects of fellow climbers and the horrific results that can occur. The circle is expanded this time as more space is given to the effect the activity has on those who the climber is personally involved with, who cares about his health. Again the pilot was at war, he was not voluntarily flying dozens and dozens of missions. The climber is where he is by choice, so the fear and concern the activities generate may have similar names, but what catalyzes the emotions is fundamentally different.<br />Mr. Salter's writing is an amazing study of people. He certainly selects an environment that causes a description of what they do and why they do it to be appropriate. For me in these first two novels it is the people you remember more than the circumstances. It is not that the stories lack strength, quite the contrary; his people are just so fascinating.	2001-02-12
2106644:US	53047425	RFU9E0X9M2L6J	0375703926	947999501	The Hunters: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	No Substitute For Experience	Mr. James Salter flew combat missions in jets in Korea; additionally he has earned a reputation as a premiere novelist. So when he decided to take what he had done as a pilot and then to add his literary skills, the result was not only excellent but also authentic, as only a combat pilot can know what the experience was like. No amount of research can approach the realism of a man who has actually done the job. Others may document the history faithfully, however it can never compete with actual first hand experience.<br />I greatly enjoy reading the new novels based on the latest technologies and the capabilities of aircraft that border on what was science fiction a short time ago. This is an entirely different reading experience. Technology is not the focus of the book because it did not exist. The Pilot was the technology, and any supplemental help he had was minimal. These pilots did not fly with massive amounts of weaponry, there were no such things as missiles, no flying tankers to refuel them, and no AWACS plans that could give them an understanding of the overall engagement.<br />The most critical element they relied upon was their sight, their unaided sight. They flew against planes that generally could fly above them, and were able to exploit political lines to hide behind when our pilots could not. These men went in with the ability to fire upon an opponent for all of 11 seconds. That was it. That was the sum total of their offensive capability.<br />Mr. Salter also writes about War without glorification, in fact he often illustrates how artificial the notoriety that can come from war can be on occasion. His writing reminded me of Hemingway and other chroniclers of war that showed the experience in its everyday routine. Mr. Salter shows the fear, the boredom, and the massive amounts of time there was literally nothing to do.<br />The Author of this book flew over 100 missions in Korea. This may be called a novel but its accuracy is probably as precise as any documentation could be. As to credibility, his is a given.ny documentation could be. As to credibility, his is a given.	2001-02-12
2109295:US	53047425	R1DNMM4V80G7CN	0375705341	327480505	King: A Street Story	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Person Could Not	Mr. Berger uses man's best friend to describe the human existence of the homeless. The 24 hours of experiences the canine \\"King\\" relates, had to be told by an animal other than a human, it could not otherwise work. Man as an animal shares many commonalities with the rest of the animal kingdom. As time passes skills we thought unique to ourselves are becoming fewer, I would offer speech as an example. One only has to read of the care that Elephants treat their dead and dying, the ways they revisit their dead to understand that compassion too is something we have yet to master.<br />We can claim something that is unique to our group. We kill our own, we torture our own, we systematically exterminate and ethnically cleanse our own. And as King relates to us we lack the compassion for those we would prefer to ignore rather than to help. There is a moment when the act of dousing a sleeping man with gasoline and lighting him afire is described as the death of a heretic. King muses the heretic's crime, could it be he is poor?<br />This book can be easily dismissed as being nothing new and that perhaps is the point. We have become a group that is nearly impossible to shock, the youngest of our group now kill aimlessly, and older members kill the youngest with no more concern than swatting a insect. Those with power persecute the weak; it has become all but a sport.<br />Mr. Berger's book is important because it shows behavior that should be contemptible, but has become so common, so clich&eacute;, it is rarely even contemplated. He needed to use a dog to bring attention to a human problem because a person is not qualified to comment on how we behave.<br />An important book by a talented man who has lived a long life, and clearly is less than impressed with what he has seen.	2001-02-09
2110368:US	53047425	R3MSR1ND8I3SQ	0679755179	875758790	Photocopies: Encounters	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Neural Net Hardcopy	This is the first work that I have read by Mr. John Berger. Entitled, \\"Photocopies\\", it is a collection of 29 memories that he made more permanent by placing them in print. I don't know at what point a novella becomes a short story, or when the latter becomes something else again. Mr. Berger presents these 29 experiences in 180 pages, and while the number presented can be said to be great as measured by the little space they occupy, it would be an error to judge the quality of what they contain by their brevity.<br />There are not many Authors who can skillfully execute short literary works. By their definition they allow comparatively short spans of space and reading time to take the reader where the Author has mapped his or her trip.  So what level of skill and experience can make a reader enjoy and think when provided with only a handful of words? Quite high for the former, and lengthy for the latter I think.<br />Not many writers can create a sentence that includes the work of both Donatello and Thelonius Monk to explain the achievement of a prison escape. The reader is also treated to metaphors that will become memories. Mr. Berger in describing the aged hands of a laborer could have slipped into clich&eacute;, or a variant on many others. However he compares the hands to, \\"certain old words that today are going out of use\\".<br />This volume is a remarkable collection of thoughts, observations and memories that never exceed a few pages, and in one example consumes only a single leaf. Yet they are all of interest, they provoke thought, and they illustrate what results when skill, gifts, and life experience are placed on paper.	2001-02-08
2112182:US	53047425	R25NDYDED1EX3C	0679748369	825986403	The Great World: A novel (Vintage International)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Takes His Time	Mr. Malouf is a gifted communicator, creator, and conjuror. I am even tempted to use literary alchemist for he does not just take words and arrange them, he selects words, assembles them with care and thought, and truly creates writing that is altogether new. This holds true whether he is dealing in pure fiction, or fiction that is historically based. The books that result from his efforts are almost uniformly excellent, and at there best incorporate the various types of writing he has such a wonderful grasp of. For Mr. Malouf is a Novelist, a Poet, and a Librettist, each an accomplishment, when combined extraordinary.<br />I have one of his novels left to read, and having come this far into his work I recommend them all without condition. \\"The Great World\\", is different from the previous works I have read and commented upon, and this is due primarily to its length. I once read that a movie is an epic if it takes its time. If that is the criterion here, then this work certainly qualifies. If you have read any of his shorter works, and have been amazed with the scope he can cover, the illusion of time and length he conveys, imagine it tripled or quadrupled, and you will get an idea of the panorama of lifetimes this work relates.<br />To narrow the comments on this work to an observation or two is unfair. There are just so much and so many players that are important. However to focus on Vic and Digger and the lifetime's experiences they share, takes a good deal of the book into account. Vic is at once an enigma and a clich&eacute;. This is a man who will continue to removes cookies after being caught in the act, and then risk his life to save that of the friend whose jar he had plundered. He is an exploiter of human friendship a businessman of questionable ethics he is faithful, faithless. He is a montage of all that is meant to be human. Superficially he is in control, beneath the veneer, he is simply human wreckage.<br />Digger is the friend you would like to have, a man that Vic feels he justifiably targets and exploits, but I never felt that Digger was the person who was deluding himself. Even \\"simple\\" Jenny always knew what Vic was. Vic was accommodated by Digger when others who would meet him instantly were put off. He was his silent apologist, his passive defender, not because he believed Vic to be good, merely in need of pity.<br />There are many events in the book that are important, but one is critical. It is one of those moments when a person finds out what they are or are not capable of. As a solitary experience it can be painful, when it involves another it can be shattering. Vic has this experience while a POW with Digger and others, and it governs his life forever. His time as a POW finalizes who Vic is, while others integrate it as an episode of their life.<br />Mr. Malouf has written a remarkable study of men in captivity, men who spend the majority of the War as prisoners without the opportunity to prove themselves, defend their Country, or earn the right to say, \\"I was there\\". This study of human nature alone makes the book worthwhile, but as I mentioned it is one of many human explorations Mr. Malouf takes the reader upon.<br />For anyone who enjoys excellent writing, Mr. Malouf will greatly enhance your reading experiences, even with topics you might not normally tend to choose. He is certainly an Author who will never disappoint you.that Vic feels he justifiably targets and exploits, but I never felt that Digger was the person who was deluding himself. Even \\"simple\\" Jenny always knew what Vic was. Vic was accommodated by Digger when others who would meet him instantly were put off. He was his silent apologist, his passive defender, not because he believed Vic to be good, merely in need of pity.<br />There are many events in the book that are important, but one is critical. It is one of those moments when a person finds out what they are or are not capable of. As a solitary experience it can be painful, when it involves another it can be shattering. Vic has this experience while a POW with Digger and others, and it governs his life forever. His time as a POW finalizes who Vic is, while others integrate it as an episode of their life.<br />Mr. Malouf has written a remarkable study of men in captivity, men who spend the majority of the War as prisoners without the opportunity to prove themselves, defend their Country, or earn the right to say, \\"I was there\\". This study of human nature alone makes the book worthwhile, but as I mentioned it is one of many human explorations Mr. Malouf takes the reader upon.<br />For anyone who enjoys excellent writing, Mr. Malouf will greatly enhance your reading experiences, even with topics you might not normally tend to choose. He is certainly an Author who will never disappoint you.	2001-02-07
2112783:US	53047425	R2VC0SAZH9UZDM	0375400257	125650386	Two Moons: A novel	Books	2	8	12	N	N	No Unified Theory Here	In the real world Scientists have been and continue to pursue a Unified Theory Of Everything. In the genre of Historical Fiction, Mr. Mallon with, \\"Two Moons\\" appears to be searching for the literary equivalent. The period of History he chose to place his story in was a controversial and colorful period to say the least. Unfortunately this book communicates very little of those events, and when it does it tends to dull them.<br />The Author had a great deal of History to work with as a stage for the fiction he chose to set upon it. Senator Conkling, the scandals surrounding the New York Ports, and elections so manipulated they make our most recent seem perfectly sane. None of this comes through in the book; the History that is there is a faded backdrop and no more. The fiction that is added is aimless, lacks any sort of focus to prioritize whom we are supposed to be interested in, and vaguely wanders around a goal of an Astronomer that is simply ridiculous.<br />It's difficult to care about characters when they care so little for themselves. Lack of empathy for the players is compounded when their Histories are fragmented and scattered throughout the work. You could literally remove many of the Observatory staff and the story would lose none of the minimal interest it struggles to generate.<br />Nineteenth Century Washington D.C. was a very interesting place, both in terms of the miserable place it was to live and work, the issues that resulted from the Civil War, and finding new bodies in the Heavens generally should fascinate as well. In this story the reader is given a great amalgam of gray. Even when the climax of the book's central male character takes place, as a reader you will wonder why it did, and find it difficult to care. The philosophical topic of infinity or eternal existence is so clich&eacute; and thin, as to be patently absurd.<br />This Author may have written some good work, this is not one of them. It is also the first I have read, so it may be the poor exception.r exception.	2001-02-06
2114634:US	53047425	RT6FE3IHT2VMP	0156005719	751976716	Celibates & Other Lovers (Harvest Book)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Kinder Gentler Ireland	The last few books I have read that have taken place on this particular island have been depressing even by the stories that normally come from this geographic point. Mr. Walter Keady presents a wonderful tale with, \\"Celibates And Other Lovers\\", that is a charming change of pace.<br />There is great humor both in quantity and quality, however it is not trying to lighten a general tragedy or the misfortune of others. This is not dark much less black humor; this is just great amusing interaction among people that is almost uniformly without rancor of any kind. The book is not explicit either in language or human relations. A word here and there that would generally be considered profane, are so few they go almost unnoticed. And because they are not scattered through every bit of dialogue, they have the same impact as hearing an expletive from a source you have never expected it from. Writers, who rely on vulgarity as a cornerstone of their work, are like comedians that do the same with their standup, after a period of time passes, you become numb to it.<br />Mr. Keady also treats relations between couples with a consideration that is rare. He shows touching intimacy, not to be confused with graphic and explicit which is what lousy writers place on a page, embarrassing situations, in all, very human. A couple may be caught behind a haystack, but the event is of note not because of what they have yet to get to, rather who it is that finds them, and the dialogue that ensues.<br />Religion too is dealt with in a manner that is not without its controversy, but the Author does not sink to the Priest as a pedophile that has become the staple of so many stories. Such Priests exist, but they are not to be found on every Church Altar a person may enter. I would imagine the young man on his path to the Priesthood, and the struggles and stumbles he makes, will leave readers with the idea these men are human, they have weaknesses, but those weaknesses are not by definition that of a felon or a seriously damaged mind.<br />The title of the book is not indicative of prevailing behavior among the book's Clergy, so please don't pass the book because of it. The book is a well-written story that on balance leaves you feeling good about virtually all the people you have read about. The characters are not perfect, but they are not at the other end closing upon deviance either.a felon or a seriously damaged mind.<br />The title of the book is not indicative of prevailing behavior among the book's Clergy, so please don't pass the book because of it. The book is a well-written story that on balance leaves you feeling good about virtually all the people you have read about. The characters are not perfect, but they are not at the other end closing upon deviance either.	2001-02-05
2117377:US	53047425	R2K25TIVPIUR61	0231115156	732900849	On My Country and the World	Books	5	30	33	N	N	The Book Itself Is History	It was not that long ago when a person would have been thought foolish if they believed a former, General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, would be writing books for anyone who was interested. It also is not very long ago that a person writing about any one of the dozens of issues in this book, would have spent many, if not their remaining years in a Siberian Camp. Since Mr. Gorbachev became General Secretary in 1985 until he resigned as President in 1991, history has been made that will fill countless books for many years to come.<br />If there is one aspect of this book that I were to state as particularly fascinating it would be the transcripts from Politburo Meetings. Here are the same men expressing their thoughts in reality, when the same members of this inner sanctum of The Kremlin have been the foundation for spy and Cold War Novels for decades. If you are looking for \\"the evil empire\\", plotting the destruction of the West, you will be disappointed. The arguments and the positioning that continually deteriorate into political and personal feuds as the former USSR became the target of varied interests, reads like much of what we listen to and watch here with our elected officials.<br />Mr. Gorbachev is not an apologist for the Former Soviet Union. As someone who grew up with the USSR portrayed as the ultimate evil, the book requires a major change in perspective for the reader. A willingness to listen to a man that is extremely well informed, a Statesman, and a thinker far and away the superior to those who now rule the remains of the USSR, and its kleptocratic economy. I found his words to be remarkably candid when criticizing his own mistakes, and those of the USSR, and his criticisms of US Policy were more often valid than not. The world was divided into two camps with each side portraying the other as the ultimate threat for most of the 20th Century. The truth of course is never that simple. The stories shared by Mr. Gorbachev have another facet; they are absolutely terrifying at times.<br />It is not possible to comment on even a portion of his ideas. His writing is very dense, and takes getting comfortable with to complete the book. This may in part be due to translation issues, and there are footnotes where ambiguity may have been critical.<br />His narration of the USSR coming apart is not only fascinating, it was infinitely more complex than many care to recall, and the complexities are by no measure solved. The USSR was never a monolithic beast. It was composed of 15 distinct republics that were made all the more complex by forced immigrations, ethnic complications, and the arbitrary creation of borders. Borders that became not only critical but also disputed to the point of war, when the Union was dissolved.<br />During his book he covers the history of his country and the larger union, the problems then, and the challenges now. He also takes the reader through the removal of The Wall In Berlin, the first border disputes in Azerbaijan and Armenia, and all the drama of the Baltic States and their pronouncements of independence.<br />I certainly would not presume to rank what is important in this book, or what was of the greatest importance to Mr. Gorbachev. A critical passage for me was when he made the issues he spoke of personal for him, and those of his Countrymen.<br />He spoke of the sense of loss felt by citizens during the turmoil and breakup. He acknowledged why people on the outside may have their views, but as a private citizen he and many others had and do have their own. Because there is one fact you cannot get away from; the homes, countries, borders, and lives that were lead were the only life most had ever known. The times of the Tsars are none too fondly remembered either. So on the human level, not the handful that is destroying the remains, the pardoned thieves like Yeltsin and his Family and others, many miss the life they had. For many it was not only the life they knew, it was far better than the one they now live.<br />A remarkable opportunity to view History from a different perspective, by one of the men at its center., it was far better than the one they now live.<br />A remarkable opportunity to view History from a different perspective, by one of the men at its center.	2001-02-02
2117869:US	53047425	RKRO3RUQX5CDT	0151004943	685572016	Our Fathers: A Novel  by the Author of The Missing	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Grim	\\"Our Fathers\\", by Mr. Andrew O'Hagan is a piece about a Grandfather, a Father, and one Son who has gone to great lengths to prevent becoming the third Parent in the generational series. Readers can judge his reluctance, or possibly fear, to become a Father, however if he were to approach his predecessors in conduct, the world has more Fathers from this type as is. Granted this is a novel, but as they often do, this story is and has been played out forever.<br />Scotland is the locale and three generations are the subject. This story is well written; it is also brutal physically as well as emotionally. If you are offended if an institution you may cherish is portrayed in very poor light, even in a work of fiction, this book may not be for you.<br />The issues dealt with in this book are unfortunately not unusual, however the number of books written portraying domestic brutality, and conduct bordering on heinous, seem to abound. It is the exception that we read of a Family that is not the victim of many or all of what this book contains. I do not doubt these situations exist; I do question the need for bookshelves upon bookshelves documenting them.<br />As a comparison, for those who have read, \\"Angela's Ashes\\", you will possibly find that memoir lighter by several degrees than this novel. There is misery and suffering everywhere in the world; it is not exclusive to the Northern areas of Great Britain. However if one were to read much of the newer works about Ireland, and in this case Scotland, you would have to wonder if there is a happy, contented Family in either Country. There are of course many such Families, perhaps they just choose not to write, or publishers not to publish.<br />Many of the books I refer to and have commented upon have used humor however dark to break the misery of the lives of their characters, real or imagined. Mr. O'Hagan has written a very good book deserving of great praise, however be prepared for unbroken emotion that is uniformly negative, and conduct that at times is repugnant.ive, and conduct that at times is repugnant.	2001-02-02
2118422:US	53047425	RV1M68W6CV3TR	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	?THX?	As someone who generally gets new Stars Wars books on the day they become available, I freely admit I am not as hard on these books as I probably should be. However I think most fans enjoy the Universe of Lucas so much, minor or irritating issues are less noted. There is one idea that is not an issue. To suggest this book lacks any suspense or surprise because virtually all readers have seen Episode I is completely absurd. All fans already know what happens to Anakin, and a variety of others from Episode I, as we have seen Episodes IV, V, and VI. There are over 150 other written works that take place before, during and after all the movies, and as readers know the whole epic is more enjoyable as influenced by how much of the reading you have done. There are hundreds a bits of information that are and will remain unknown to those who have never picked up a book. The movies are still great, but the reading adds another level of detail.<br />Michael Reaves does an average job with his entry as a Star Wars Author. The storyline is enjoyable, and much is learned about Darth Maul and the embargo that takes place in Episode I. Not only does the movie not detract from the book, the background information gained, enhances Episode I.<br />On the down side the information about Maul's entry to the Sith is fragmented, and placed in several spots in the book. They are not clean transitions, and the questions foremost in your mind are never dealt with. There is a training sequence that would be great on film, but it will remain in the book unless many more movies come to pass. Maul like other \\"bad\\" characters before him, has developed a huge following among fans, even though his part in the movie was short, critical, but short and quite final.<br />The book is loaded with light saber battles both single and double bladed, so the snap hiss fans will love it. The Jedi Philosophy is both nobly portrayed and practiced, and as always new pieces of information are shared with readers.<br />The book is one great chase with the last sentient in the Galaxy you would wished to be pursued by. And as the action takes place almost exclusively on Coruscant, the possibilities and endless locations of the City-Planet make for great reading. Some new and clever life forms are introduced, and the battles that are fought are not easy victories for either side of the force that is wielding a blade.<br />The next installment will be another Maul based adventure, and for the first time it will only be available as a download online. It's appropriate that the greatest science fiction epic ever created will be delivered via cyberspace and silicon.<br />I have one small issue and another I found annoying. Why did this Author decide to have one Jedi constantly introduce himself, as only James Bond would do? The other is a larger issue. When disbelief is suspended the reader should not be snapped out of it with the issue I already mentioned, even if it too is fictional. It is totally inappropriate to attempt to insert a reference to the fact-based world. It is even worse when done badly, and in this instance it certainly was. For future Authors, kindly do not rip me out of a tale and insert me into the electronics store down the street, or into a multitude of industry magazines that have zero bearing on the story. Promoting real world products not only kills the moments while it lingers, it is appalling when it is used for another Lucas owned consumer product.br />The book is one great chase with the last sentient in the Galaxy you would wished to be pursued by. And as the action takes place almost exclusively on Coruscant, the possibilities and endless locations of the City-Planet make for great reading. Some new and clever life forms are introduced, and the battles that are fought are not easy victories for either side of the force that is wielding a blade.<br />The next installment will be another Maul based adventure, and for the first time it will only be available as a download online. It's appropriate that the greatest science fiction epic ever created will be delivered via cyberspace and silicon.<br />I have one small issue and another I found annoying. Why did this Author decide to have one Jedi constantly introduce himself, as only James Bond would do? The other is a larger issue. When disbelief is suspended the reader should not be snapped out of it with the issue I already mentioned, even if it too is fictional. It is totally inappropriate to attempt to insert a reference to the fact-based world. It is even worse when done badly, and in this instance it certainly was. For future Authors, kindly do not rip me out of a tale and insert me into the electronics store down the street, or into a multitude of industry magazines that have zero bearing on the story. Promoting real world products not only kills the moments while it lingers, it is appalling when it is used for another Lucas owned consumer product.	2001-02-01
2118817:US	53047425	R3LK1STBKNXSZY	0670885142	413630215	44: Dublin Made Me	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Lines Are So Fine	When you read a McCourt memoir you read of bleak reality, a reality rarely tempered with happiness much less joy. There is humor, however of the sort that more often increases your respect for those who are able to find humor where few could even imagine it. At times the light moments are not so light, just bright in comparison to what you have read. At the other end there is Brendan O'Carroll and his trilogy of, \\"The Mammy\\", \\"The Chisellers\\", and \\"The Granny\\". This is fiction and it is outrageously funny, so much so that when there is a tragic event the pain you feel from laughing often tempers the darker moments. And then there is Peter Sheridan's work, \\"44 Dublin Made Me\\". And this work lies somewhere between the two others I have mentioned.<br />I enjoyed the book a great deal. At times it is almost a hybrid of the other three Authors I mention, for even though it is a memoir and does contain painful events, they are not as painfully presented as I think they need to be for readers. I am in no manner diminishing the pain of the Sheridan Family; I am expressing a writing issue, or perhaps a stylistic point.<br />There seem to be more of these Irish Memoirs as of late, and as they have been widely read, they by definition either create or reinforce notions people may have already brought to the book. The issue that I struggled with was the manner in which some material was presented, some was absolutely funny, and other issues were anything but humorous. I don't believe they ever can be humorous. And this is the part of the book that failed for me. The writing was a bit too neat and slick for want of a better word. The experiences of a young child read as an accomplished Author had written them rather than a talented writer bringing the thoughts of a young man across as a child may view them, but as an adult would read them.<br />The book is very good and it's one I would recommend. I felt it worth noting that the story of any country or the people that live there can become a commodity. I don't believe that to be the case with this book, but I feel the first steps on a slippery slope are waiting to be trod upon.can become a commodity. I don't believe that to be the case with this book, but I feel the first steps on a slippery slope are waiting to be trod upon.	2001-02-01
2118991:US	53047425	R19D75WVG4F55S	0679776702	861730671	Fly Away Peter	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Mores Pages Or Less Material	I have read most of Mr. Malouf's novels and he is an Author of remarkable talent and consistency. It has generally not been whether a given work is good, just how very good it is. He almost competes with himself alone when he pens another work. This work, \\"Fly Away Peter\\", is closer to a novella in length, but felt a bit crowded when read. It would seem examining an issue in depth, or a general theme in breadth can be accomplished without a regard for length, rather just skill. This time out I felt there was room for two or three times the length of the actual work.<br />This book promises to deal with the issue of men from different classes of life, how they place the strata of society aside and become partners. And then to narrate how the First World War draws the two different men into its maw. These men are not the only characters, and it is not just their histories the Author must communicate. When all of these aspects are brought together in barely 134 pages, it became incomplete for me, almost claustrophobic. Mr. Malouf is a remarkable writer and poet. To read any of his work is to read great literature from this admired Australian Author.<br />The four stars may seem to contradict what I have said, however I cannot go back and change all of the previous books of his I have commented upon. This is excellent reading when placed next to much of what is available; it only comes up short when compared to the balance of his work. It certainly is worth the time to read and enjoy, it should probably be placed at the beginning of reading his body of work, rather than near its end.	2001-02-01
2121176:US	53047425	R1M2UHZPQQ3T2Q	1567920977	638320065	Mefisto	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Another View	The partial list of Authors who have put their talents to this tale include giants in literature, J.W. Goethe, Christopher Marlowe, and Thomas Mann.  \\"Mefisto\\" is John Banville's entry into this legend and into the company of those who have interpreted it. This story of &quot;Faust&quot; can be read in prose form like, \\"Mefisto\\", or as a play by Goethe. I enjoyed this version, as the message remains the same, the challenge to the Author is to make it relevant to now, and to make it his or her own. For any who have read another Author's version the changes required to make the tale more contemporary cannot be simple and make the version worthy. This is not about changing period costume and taking the work from The Medieval, to the Renaissance, to the 20th century.<br />I think this legend is particularly valid today although any contemporary reader of another century would say the same. The difference is the lines we stand at, and the lines we cross because we can, with little regard for whether we should, are very real. Superstition still exists. Recall the recent millennial change and all that was feared and did not happen, all the apocalyptic prophesies that never were.<br />\\"Mefisto\\" is, as it has been, about crossing a line, what bargain must be made, what compromises negotiated, and with consequences vicious in their finality. Two scientists this past weekend were featured in a prominent newspaper saying they are moving forward with cloning a human. Others claim the cloning has taken place already. What deal have they made metaphorically speaking, and with whom?<br />This legend like a select few of others of its kind is always valid, always worth reading. Even if you read the oldest written version it is possible to substitute a situation that exists today. And this is how it should be as this is about the human condition and one of its fundamental flaws. Always has been with us, always will be.<br />The enjoyment here devolves from an extremely talented man of thought who can then place on paper the wicked and wickedly funny players like Felix that entertain, teach, and horrify. Mr. Banville gets inside your head if you let him, and, \\"Mefisto\\", is a carnivorous guest.<br />So enter his world where nighttime becomes downtime, and bandages are made from aluminum foil. And here it is not just the red or blue pill, but how you receive it, tablet, powder, liquid, or perhaps with a syringe assist?f thought who can then place on paper the wicked and wickedly funny players like Felix that entertain, teach, and horrify. Mr. Banville gets inside your head if you let him, and, \\"Mefisto\\", is a carnivorous guest.<br />So enter his world where nighttime becomes downtime, and bandages are made from aluminum foil. And here it is not just the red or blue pill, but how you receive it, tablet, powder, liquid, or perhaps with a syringe assist?	2001-01-30
2121206:US	53047425	R30712HSVSSPMD	0679776478	477190229	Harland's Half Acre (Vintage International)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Family Tree	Generational Family Trees are often found at the beginning of Biographies. Mr. Malouf's, \\"Harland's Half Acre\\", is a novel so the Families are fictitious, however the complexity of the relationships are very real, so a pen a paper may help keep all in order. The Author is not a writer of clich&eacute;s, and the people and how they relate are in no way contrived. There is some unusual movement of players, and they sometimes concur with the death of another key character, it may just have been me, however there seemed much to follow.<br />This is the fifth work of the Authors that I have read, so I have by no means even reached the halfway mark in his work. Of the works I have read this is my favorite. This book is neither as complex as, \\"An Imaginary Life\\", nor as seemingly straightforward as, \\"The Conversations At Curlow Creek\\".  The works I have read that were about the settlement of Australia were placed at the beginning of the earlier settlers history while this work shows the results and failures of the descendents of those pioneers.<br />The artist in the book reminded me of another Author's portrayal of a painter in. \\"The Moon And Sixpence\\", by W. Somerset Maugham. The artist's personalities are very different, and the issues they struggle with differ as well. I make the reference as it may cause an association to the better-known work. Mr. Malouf's work is every bit as good a read.<br />All of the attributes about the Author's work I have mentioned before I will try not to repeat, however in this work the manner with which he had his characters experience death was interesting to me. His writing of death and its dismantling of life is very well done, however the way he chose to deal with the actual instant of death was new as a reader for me. It occurs more than once, so I believe the note is something the Author wanted to make a point of. Death is hardly a new area, but as he has done in his previous books, he writes about aspects of what you believe you are familiar with and he brings a fresh perspective. His work is not derivative, it is unique as he takes a detail, a moment in time, and causes it to be a noteworthy event.<br />A wonderful writer, I look forward to the balance of his work.iar with and he brings a fresh perspective. His work is not derivative, it is unique as he takes a detail, a moment in time, and causes it to be a noteworthy event.<br />A wonderful writer, I look forward to the balance of his work.	2001-01-30
2124830:US	53047425	R3VTGZ6P7O551O	0679737863	984713450	Falconer	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Picked The Wrong One To Start	It's difficult to argue that Mr. Cheever is not a writer of deserved renown. His work, \\"Falconer\\", is extremely well written and generally critically admired. The subject matter and the eyes belonging to Farragut through which we see this story held little appeal to me. I plan to try another of his books to see if this was the odd book out, or I am the odd reader out.<br />This is a not quite so typical prison story, which appears to be historically based predicated on the time periods and the names of prisons he uses. Why he chose to change them in this work of fiction I found puzzling, as they and there histories are well known even infamous. Farragut has been imprisoned for the crime of Fratricide. His version of the crime, and those related later in the work are so entirely different in detail and degree, the reader may reasonably ask what other events may fall into this category. Farragut's sexuality in and out of prison, his wife's and many of those we meet are discussed at length, and they compete on several levels none very pleasant. It may be that the haze or thread of a variety of addictions from sex to heroin blurs the message of this book. It may be the time he speaks of was so defined by what the Author emphasizes, that you either are absorbed in it, or feel that it is tired.<br />Mr. Cheever did not earn the repeated notice of his skills as a writer and the awards that followed without reason. So in the end it may have been my lack of interest in the self absorbed characters, and pieces of plot I found absurd, that doomed the book for me. Jody and his escape plan is pure farce, and Farragut's final act was also stretching credulity for me. Farragut's wife was the person he should have been imprisoned for harming, I cannot readily remember a more nauseating character.<br />Hopefully just the wrong book picked first, you will have to decide for yourself.	2001-01-27
2125715:US	53047425	R33FAOK4OMIPHE	0679749519	741639462	Remembering Babylon: A Novel	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Fear And Ignorance	Mr. David Malouf has the ability to take familiar topics, amend them, and create a new viewpoint, a valid book, and worthwhile reading experience. Fear generated by the unknown as perceived by ignorant or well-educated simpletons is not new. That these feelings are often expressed in terms of racial tension; hatred and violence are routine, not an exception, and anything but a novelty.  In, \\"Remembering Babylon\\" the Author tells the tale in a manner new for me, and even though the behaviors of many involved were predictable, the new perspective and quality the Author brings to it made for very good reading.<br />As he has in previous works he sets the tale in Australia, and once again brings settlers from Europe, in this case Scotland. Mr. Malouf then takes a familiar human interaction, which is by definition tragic, and it is here he makes it his own. In terms of Race, Gemmy is as white as any of the settlers. He spent thirteen years in London, and then was washed upon the coast of Australia where he then lives amongst the Native Aborigines for sixteen years. As Gemmy has lived the better part of his life is the harsh sun he is no longer as light in complexion as the self-described white newcomers. Gemmy one day happens across the path of some children, and in fear of his safety announces he \\"is a British Object\\". The irony of this statement could be dwelt on for pages by itself.<br />There are many relationships a reader can explore in this story. I felt a key one was that between Gemmy and the Family headed by Jock that takes him in. Jock does so to please his wife, as Gemmy is not a person he would bring into his home with his Wife and Children. The reaction of the balance of the settlement ranges from degrees of fear, to desire to destroy the race that Gemmy has morphed into from the viewpoint of the duller of the participants. Gemmy at once becomes a trusted member of Jock's Family, and the focus for every evil fantasized, imagined, or counterfeited by others.<br />The storyline must be left for the book, however one experience shared by Jock and Gemmy is of note. Gemmy treated like the savage he is not, routinely stays several steps ahead of those who attempt to exploit him to gain knowledge of his tribe, and then extinguish them. Far from being intellectually inept, he combines the street smarts of the former London Urchin, with the practical knowledge of sixteen years of learning to live in harmony with the same land the settlers come to conquer. He becomes a harmless, productive and trustworthy part of Jock's Family if not the community.<br />Gemmy knows his own heart, and that of those he has come to live amongst. He is under no illusions as to how he is viewed, or how he sees the world. Jock goes through a major reassessment of what he thought he was, as events build around Gemmy. The Author explores in a thoughtful manner what our thoughts are made of, how they change, and whether it is we that change, or our views of others that change us.<br />The book is filled with smaller observations that are material for contemplation. The loneliness of settling a new land is a reality, but when the Author takes one player and has her ponder the thought of being the first dead to be buried here as well, and the loneliness of knowing no Family that has gone before, no one to join in the new resting place, is beyond poignant.<br />Another great piece of work from this Author.<br />The storyline must be left for the book, however one experience shared by Jock and Gemmy is of note. Gemmy treated like the savage he is not, routinely stays several steps ahead of those who attempt to exploit him to gain knowledge of his tribe, and then extinguish them. Far from being intellectually inept, he combines the street smarts of the former London Urchin, with the practical knowledge of sixteen years of learning to live in harmony with the same land the settlers come to conquer. He becomes a harmless, productive and trustworthy part of Jock's Family if not the community.<br />Gemmy knows his own heart, and that of those he has come to live amongst. He is under no illusions as to how he is viewed, or how he sees the world. Jock goes through a major reassessment of what he thought he was, as events build around Gemmy. The Author explores in a thoughtful manner what our thoughts are made of, how they change, and whether it is we that change, or our views of others that change us.<br />The book is filled with smaller observations that are material for contemplation. The loneliness of settling a new land is a reality, but when the Author takes one player and has her ponder the thought of being the first dead to be buried here as well, and the loneliness of knowing no Family that has gone before, no one to join in the new resting place, is beyond poignant.<br />Another great piece of work from this Author.	2001-01-26
2126524:US	53047425	R2V4GS6F1T469	0684854864	610777862	The Mysteries Within: A Surgeon Reflects on Medical Myths	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Thriller Mystery And Medical History	This is a remarkable book written by a gifted surgeon, who wields a pen perhaps a touch less brilliantly than a scalpel. The only reason I say less, is that after reading one specific part of the book, I was overwhelmed with what can happen in an operating room. This is why I used the word thriller for the book, but other sections are as mysterious as Holmes versus Moriarty, and the historical perspective is brilliantly shared and summarized without losing the cadence of the book.<br />Dr. Nuland with his third work, \\"The Mysteries Within\\", brings a view of medicine unlike any I have read before. He takes you through a procedure that he claims brought dumb luck to the operating table for both he and his patient, luck that saved a life that was almost a guaranteed loss. He shares the inspiration that Residents and Interns bring with their youth, and calculated daring. Do you know what a bezoars is? I didn't until I read this book. And if the detective work that solved this enigma does not leave you marveling at just how wide and varied a surgeon's skills must be, I don't know what will. The example for you is perhaps in another section of the book.<br />He and the men and women he speaks of are remarkable, yet he always puts what is known and observable into relation with less tangible ideas. Whether it is religious faith, or faith in the Doctor or a pill, or hope in the unproven, he is never dismissive. The only intolerance he shows is for those who lack the openness of mind that welcomes all possibility, or deals in absolutes. His statements on religion and science and how they legitimately coexist, are not incongruous, and perhaps essential to each other, is stated as eloquently as I have ever heard the issue summarized.<br />It is rare person who can reach inside the ill, the broken bodies, and the lives that should end but do not. The pressure they operate under is explained, but I believe true understanding is left only for those who are the participants. Hopefully most will never need the skills and the \\"luck\\" that you will experience in this book. However in the event you or someone you care for does, hope that it will be a surgeon like this man, the men and women he learned from, or perhaps those he has taught.<br />Unconditionally recommended!ully most will never need the skills and the \\"luck\\" that you will experience in this book. However in the event you or someone you care for does, hope that it will be a surgeon like this man, the men and women he learned from, or perhaps those he has taught.<br />Unconditionally recommended!	2001-01-26
2126681:US	53047425	RLI5Q3VAX2T7	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The Less You Know Now The More This Book Will Upset You	At the back of this book is the list of men that survived not only the sinking of The Indianapolis on July 31st 1945, but also the days of suffering that followed. 316 men survived, which represents 26.4% of the crew. All the survivors agree that the majority of the crew safely evacuated the ship. If the number that reached the water was 850, only 37.1% survived the four and one half days they spent in the water. The men who survived, and how they and the tragedy were treated are the subject of this book, \\"Abandon Ship\\", by Mr. Richard F Newcomb.<br />The survivors represented 40 of the then 48 States of The Nation. It is not much of a stretch to say that the nearly three fourths of the men that died would complete the list of 48 States, Native American Reservations, and possibly other locales as well. As this is the largest loss of life from a single ship, it may also be unique in that families in every single State were affected, I don't know this, I am making a presumption. I have often read of this ship when the subject of its cargo was raised. For this book, and the men that died and lived, what it carried is meaningless relative to their ordeal. To use this issue to glorify or to denigrate the sacrifice of these men is equally obscene, and misses the point.<br />This is a book about human nature at its most brilliant, and its most pathetic. It is a story of a crusade that survivors carried on until the spring of 2000, the story of a 9th Grader who was integral to their efforts, and the bureaucracy that lobbied 55 years after the sinking to minimize any blame they deserved. The part of the Navy that is obsessive about placing blame as far from the top as possible appears to still be in working order. A few years ago a gun turret exploded on a battleship with loss of life, who was to blame, the easiest scapegoat they could find.<br />I mean no disrespect to The Navy as a branch of armed forces that have defended us for hundreds of years. This is not about the \\"Navy\\" the institution; this is about the Navy as headed by insecure, politically paranoid, career bureaucrats. You will read of a four and one half day length of torture that is nearly unimaginable. Hundreds of men, many wounded, with virtually no food or water, and sharks and other flesh-eating creatures sharing their space. Reading about men, who wore life preservers that slowly drowned as the 48-hour useful life of the device ran out, is painful. What follows is even worse.<br />The moronic policies, the preoccupation with placing blame on the most irrelevant of players, and the 55 year odyssey to clear the Captain's and the crew's name, is nauseating at its best. That after half a century the Navy was still more concerned with its history than the truth, is whatever comes after nauseating.<br />The Captain took his own life in 1968 about an hour from where I write. The Navy had so vilified him that the letters accusing him of murder that continued for decades must have become too much. Only 134 of the original crew lived to see a Congress pushed, kicked, and dragged into passing resolutions that were the result of outrageous behavior 55 years before. And even when the resolution was passed, it was a resolution watered down by The Navy.<br />The Navy that was protecting what? Tradition? What Tradition? The only people that were deluded enough to think that what was done in 1945 was legitimate sent sacrificial lambs to face the questioners, the accusers. The transcripts of some exchanges are included, and are so ridiculous as to be farce, and are in the best traditions of nothing.<br />\\"Flags Of Our Fathers\\" is another book that has enjoyed well-deserved success. This story was originally published in 1958, and is as important now as it was then, perhaps more so. Time never runs out for the truth, no matter how blockaded it may be by self interested parties that are supposed to serve those they vilify or fail to vindicate.<br />A spectacular book about amazing men.avy\\" the institution; this is about the Navy as headed by insecure, politically paranoid, career bureaucrats. You will read of a four and one half day length of torture that is nearly unimaginable. Hundreds of men, many wounded, with virtually no food or water, and sharks and other flesh-eating creatures sharing their space. Reading about men, who wore life preservers that slowly drowned as the 48-hour useful life of the device ran out, is painful. What follows is even worse.<br />The moronic policies, the preoccupation with placing blame on the most irrelevant of players, and the 55 year odyssey to clear the Captain's and the crew's name, is nauseating at its best. That after half a century the Navy was still more concerned with its history than the truth, is whatever comes after nauseating.<br />The Captain took his own life in 1968 about an hour from where I write. The Navy had so vilified him that the letters accusing him of murder that continued for decades must have become too much. Only 134 of the original crew lived to see a Congress pushed, kicked, and dragged into passing resolutions that were the result of outrageous behavior 55 years before. And even when the resolution was passed, it was a resolution watered down by The Navy.<br />The Navy that was protecting what? Tradition? What Tradition? The only people that were deluded enough to think that what was done in 1945 was legitimate sent sacrificial lambs to face the questioners, the accusers. The transcripts of some exchanges are included, and are so ridiculous as to be farce, and are in the best traditions of nothing.<br />\\"Flags Of Our Fathers\\" is another book that has enjoyed well-deserved success. This story was originally published in 1958, and is as important now as it was then, perhaps more so. Time never runs out for the truth, no matter how blockaded it may be by self interested parties that are supposed to serve those they vilify or fail to vindicate.<br />A spectacular book about amazing men.	2001-01-26
2128950:US	53047425	R1LECEK3C9ZOG1	0679779051	934079288	The Conversations at Curlow Creek	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Fade To Gray	David Malouf is not only a novelist, but a published poet as well. His work, \\"The Conversations At Curlow Creek\\", contain passages that could stand alone as solitary poems with little change to their form. This is only the third work of his I have read, so even if combined with the fourth I am reading, I still feel this Author's range is remarkable. Australia is not a place where the word confine would seem to be appropriate, however with this story Mr. Malouf creates a very intimate setting that even when expanded, rarely grows larger.<br />As he has done before he brings people from Scotland, or Ireland and tells his story in Australia. When I said he expands the setting without literally enlarging it as well, I meant that his players might roam their memories and share those of others, while remaining all but immobile during the tale. Two men from Ireland share an evening. One represents the authority of law in its most final form, the other a man whose outlaw life should hold values in complete opposition to his jailer. An then there is a third man, also from Ireland, raised as a brother to the lawman, and the possible leader of the group the prisoner is the only surviving member of.<br />The night can be a strange time for thoughts and memories, and when one of the men is supposed to be hung at dawn, every minute is arguably critical. The passage of time seems to obsess the jailer more. When asked the time he wonders if he should just say the half hour, or the actual 28 minutes past. He contemplates the value these 2 additional minutes would mean to the condemned. He uses time to gain information about this man's leader, probing to see if the man is his foster brother last seen when 16 years of age. The jailer sensitive to the man's diminishing time is desperate for the knowledge, but becomes increasingly respectful of the convict.<br />The travels outside the room they share often read as a recollection, until the waking of the dreamer disturbs the memory. It's a more subtle form of recall than just turning the page and finding you are jumping back and forth between dates. As the night passes the ides of forgiveness, redemption, and morality are discussed with the jailor playing the reluctant philosopher/priest. Mr. Malouf is very clever in taking issues that seem so black and white, and making them gray. He examines the two paths in life these men have followed, and the possible life of the third man. All three are very different, but two may have decided to live outside the confines of society's laws, while the third became a custodian of the same society's structure.<br />The book comes to an ending that I doubt many will find expected, and some may argue is ambiguous. Mr. Malouf leaves a great deal of room for his readers to either find the thread he leaves, or to allow space to be filled by the reader. His writing is unique and compelling, and will either hold great appeal, or certain frustration for readers.s a more subtle form of recall than just turning the page and finding you are jumping back and forth between dates. As the night passes the ides of forgiveness, redemption, and morality are discussed with the jailor playing the reluctant philosopher/priest. Mr. Malouf is very clever in taking issues that seem so black and white, and making them gray. He examines the two paths in life these men have followed, and the possible life of the third man. All three are very different, but two may have decided to live outside the confines of society's laws, while the third became a custodian of the same society's structure.<br />The book comes to an ending that I doubt many will find expected, and some may argue is ambiguous. Mr. Malouf leaves a great deal of room for his readers to either find the thread he leaves, or to allow space to be filled by the reader. His writing is unique and compelling, and will either hold great appeal, or certain frustration for readers.	2001-01-24
2129177:US	53047425	R358XPAFXW85MT	0151002304	1488898	Too Far Afield	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An Entirely Different Viewpoint	Unless you have the personal experience of living in Germany, before, during, and after the Berlin Wall fell, this book will be a very new view on how those that were affected may have felt the changes they experienced. The person that wrote on the 31st of October has the on site experience and he felt this novel was very accurate. Mr. Grass is not known for writing that can be read with ease, and you must want to know about this subject with above average interest, or you may find the book daunting. I did get through it over a period of time, and I frequently was lost amongst the various historical pieces that intruded into the present. Initially the players are none too easy to follow. All that said, this man did not win the Nobel Prize for writing badly. The book is excellent, it just required a great deal of effort for me, and my experience does not seem to differ from others.<br />Conventional presentation of The Divided Germany always was portrayed as those that did not escape, were in effect imprisoned. Various US Presidents would speak at the Brandenberg Gate and challenge Soviet leaders to take down the wall. The wall finally fell and the impression brought to viewers was one of a great celebration, the reunification of Germany became a reality.<br />Mr. Grass presents a different perspective that readers will find interesting, as even Germans found the book controversial when it was first published there.<br />He suggests that the unification was more like an annexation, an acquisition, almost colonization. His portrayal is not of one nation cleaved in two, with citizens counting the moments when they will be reunited as one. There is jealousy, resentment, and even hatred between the two sides, and the ideas he puts forward are not hard to imagine.<br />This was not a merger of equals. In many ways the Western and much more prosperous side of Germany understandably was placed in a position of strength, even if it took on the appearance of benign investment and rebuilding. It is not difficult to believe that in the rush to erase the part of Germany that had been taken, that many in East Germany may have felt as though they had been run over.<br />This book is well worth the effort required to experience the Germany of Theo Wuttke and Ludwig Hoffstaller as created by Mr. Grass. His views and the story he uses to express them were very new to me. If you have the time, or have an interest in German History, this book is well worth the effort.and rebuilding. It is not difficult to believe that in the rush to erase the part of Germany that had been taken, that many in East Germany may have felt as though they had been run over.<br />This book is well worth the effort required to experience the Germany of Theo Wuttke and Ludwig Hoffstaller as created by Mr. Grass. His views and the story he uses to express them were very new to me. If you have the time, or have an interest in German History, this book is well worth the effort.	2001-01-24
2130336:US	53047425	R1PYTLXRGCMC2T	0679767932	491749312	An Imaginary Life	Books	5	45	51	N	N	Of shapes transformde to bodies strange	The title of this review is from Ovid's Metamorphoses. It has been quite some time since I read of Hercules, Pygmalion, Thisbe, and a host of others. I do not believe the original Ovid must be read to enjoy Mr. David Malouf's book, but it certainly add to the experience. The irony is Ovid's work is probably four or five times the length, and even a greater consumer of time. A general grasp of what he wrote will suffice. The book also can be read with no reference material, and perhaps that is as the Author intended, each reader will have to decide.<br />In his work, \\"An Imaginary Life\\", the Author takes you to an Ovid in exile. His Emperor has sent him away to a place he knows nothing of, amongst a people as different from he as perhaps can be imagined, and without the ability to communicate at all. Time facilitates the learning of language, and the differences that first are so extreme between Ovid and his fellow inhabitants moderate if they do not disappear.<br />The catalyst for much of the effort to learn is a \\"creature\\" that also is present among Ovid and his neighbors. This is what I believe to be the \\"shape transformde\\" in Mr. Malouf's tale. Many are changed when the story is complete, perhaps most importantly Ovid. Mr. Malouf makes many points about nature, the definition of what it is to be human, and human relations. However for me this was not the most fascinating event while reading.<br />The Author places Ovid in the midst of a situation where everything is unknown to him. Perhaps the most dramatic unknown is a young child that lives among the Deer that he is said to have grown up amongst. When Ovid becomes aware of the child, he desires to capture the boy. His experiences with his plan, his preconceptions, and the very different views of those he hunts the Child with, are fascinating, and wonderfully original. Some may argue that since this work flows as a result of the writings of one of History's great poets the work by definition cannot be unique, only derivative. And such a point is well taken.<br />But to label this work derivative is to do the Author an injustice. He has taken a man who has greatly influenced literature, and in a manner of speaking dropped Ovid into an environment where Ovid is no longer the creator, the narrator, he is the subject. He is the subject not only of his ideas, and preconceptions, he is subject to them as well. Mr. Malouf places Ovid in an environment and with players that contain what Ovid so often wrote of. In this book he being subjected to the experience, not creating it, and Mr. Malouf pays tribute to the man by the quality of what he has created.<br />Again the more of Ovid you bring with you, the deeper you will be able to involve yourself in the Author's purpose. I was forced to go back and refresh my memory, and because I did, I do not believe I experienced all the Author intended. If you read this after Ovid's own work, I believe the experience will be even better.nly derivative. And such a point is well taken.<br />But to label this work derivative is to do the Author an injustice. He has taken a man who has greatly influenced literature, and in a manner of speaking dropped Ovid into an environment where Ovid is no longer the creator, the narrator, he is the subject. He is the subject not only of his ideas, and preconceptions, he is subject to them as well. Mr. Malouf places Ovid in an environment and with players that contain what Ovid so often wrote of. In this book he being subjected to the experience, not creating it, and Mr. Malouf pays tribute to the man by the quality of what he has created.<br />Again the more of Ovid you bring with you, the deeper you will be able to involve yourself in the Author's purpose. I was forced to go back and refresh my memory, and because I did, I do not believe I experienced all the Author intended. If you read this after Ovid's own work, I believe the experience will be even better.	2001-01-23
2130631:US	53047425	R394YPZ430NCHF	067974472X	908754395	The Fire Next Time	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Perspective Determines Change	Originally published in 1963, James Baldwin's, \\"The Fire Next Time\\", is an indicator of what society was like as many viewed it, and forces questions about the degree of change that has happened since he originally wrote the work. The position or the perspective of the reader, will greatly affect how each reader reacts. One issue that I do not believe can be doubted is that this is a powerful, and passionate book, written and published at a time the Author risked all manner of hatred and violence upon him. Published when Mr. Baldwin was 39, the book is not the rose colored view of youth, nor the writing with an entire lifetime to reflect upon. It does not suffer from the first, nor does it fall short do to the latter. It is writing that will elicit powerful emotions by all those who read it.<br />Great change for the better has taken place. Former Joint Chief Of Staff Colin Powell will soon occupy the most powerful post ever held by a person of color in this Country's History. This was probably unmanageable in 1963. However this example does not represent the state of change in our Society. As an argument for how much change has taken place for the better between the races, a person pointed out to me the march on the anniversary of the sick events in Selma Alabama, and the lack of any violence. My feeling was that if the President Of The United States had made the same march with the same people in 1965, as the President did recently, the violence would surely have been different. The participation of The President and all that surround him tend to minimize Civil Rights abuse in his presence.<br />There is no definitive measure of how much change has taken place, who is responsible, and who if anyone is to blame. The ease with which \\"The Race Card\\" is played by individuals of any color, at any level of our Country may not measure change, but it certainly does indicate that whatever change is needed is not yet completed.<br />A very powerful work about a conflict that still occupies too much time as an issue in our Nation. This book is one man's views, and his shared personal experiences. He writing is not the final word, but after 38 years, the fact that his work and his thoughts are still relevant, speaks for the work and the man who wrote it.t still occupies too much time as an issue in our Nation. This book is one man's views, and his shared personal experiences. He writing is not the final word, but after 38 years, the fact that his work and his thoughts are still relevant, speaks for the work and the man who wrote it.	2001-01-23
2135153:US	53047425	RI3H9LLMKDJY2	0375701419	286668089	Child's Play	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Remarkable Human Study	The act of taking of another life, an act further degraded and depraved by its mechanical nature, an act bereft of any rationalization a society could remotely understand, the death of one at the hands of another, here, is reduced to a job.<br />Mr. David Malouf through his novella, \\"Child's Play\\", brings the mind of a killer very close to the reader, for some perhaps uncomfortably close. There is nothing in this work of the traditional hired assassin, the master of weapons, disguises, and as many passports as there are Nations. Nothing here is familiar much less clich&eacute;. The Killer does not seem to even know what he feels his action is to be. He refers to it as a crime, a work in progress, and an act of violence, plain butchery, and much more.<br />He seems also to grapple with what he is in this act with so many descriptions. Is he a terrorist, murderer, a break from the normal progression of life, is he against Nature, or a part of the Natural Order? The Author even explores when in fact this killing will become fact. The easy presumption is at the moment it takes place, however Mr. Malouf goes much deeper. He suggests the moment and location of the death is meaningless until it is known, until it is reported. And here again he treats us to a barrage of interpretations.<br />I have become attracted to the skill that certain Authors have to communicate volumes of information in very short spaces. This particular work is only 145 pages in length, but due to its density of thought, it reads and feels much longer. You may well feel more drained from this comparatively brief work, than others of much greater length.<br />Mr. Malouf is an Author with multiple awards, and nominations to his credit. I enjoyed this first book immensely, and look forward to many more.	2001-01-18
2136514:US	53047425	R2ML1VMPEAWEOG	089886741X	90421724	The Wildest Dream: The Biography of George Mallory	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Primarily About The Man Not The Mountain	This biography of George Mallory written by Peter and Leni Gillman is excellent. It is exactly what it claims to be, so while climbing must be a part of any book about Mr. Mallory, this really is about the person who was a climber. This book ranges over his whole life; this is not an \\"Everest Book\\". The book does extensively document an enormous number of climbs he made, the first ascents, and of course the years he spent in his attempt to conquer Everest. The book does explore the question of whether or not he and his climbing partner Sandy Irvine were the first to Summit Everest, however like all other positions, the final proof is lacking and may or may not ever be found.<br />If you are looking for a great book on its own, or as a companion to this work, \\"Ghosts of Everest: The Search For Mallory And Irvine\\", is excellent. This second book is a documentary of the expedition for the answers to the fate of the two climbers, and it is extremely well done. \\"The Wildest Dream\\" also does much to clarify the rock climbing abilities of Mr. Mallory, which some historians have called into question, and have used as a basis for their position he never made it. Both these books (for this non-climber) put this issue to rest.<br />This book explores Mr. Mallory as a Family man, a Father, a Soldier, as well as the skills for which History remembers him. The Biography explored the vast differences between climbing as a sport today, and climbing as an activity dominated by a class system, that at times increased the danger of their activities. With any comparison today, the equipment, the risks that were taken, and the weather they survived with their primitive clothing, is nearly beyond belief. That Mallory, Irvine, and others reached such heights on Everest is nothing short of a type, effort, and endurance that put one in awe of these men.<br />The book also deals with those who coped with the extremely long absences these attempts required. Mallory's Wife and Family played a large if intermittent role in his shortened life, they stood by and waited for him through World War I, and his Mountaineering. We gain insight into Mallory the Professor, and other aspects of his life that were unknown to me.<br />After all the reading I have done it has become less an issue for me of whether the final piece of that last climb was completed. It is likely we may never know. But what Mallory and his friends did was so extraordinary, and so many years prior to the summit being reached, in many ways the final mystery may be more of a curiosity for the ages. For I believe what they did do, secures their place in History as extraordinary people.<br />An extremely interesting, and well-documented Biography.large if intermittent role in his shortened life, they stood by and waited for him through World War I, and his Mountaineering. We gain insight into Mallory the Professor, and other aspects of his life that were unknown to me.<br />After all the reading I have done it has become less an issue for me of whether the final piece of that last climb was completed. It is likely we may never know. But what Mallory and his friends did was so extraordinary, and so many years prior to the summit being reached, in many ways the final mystery may be more of a curiosity for the ages. For I believe what they did do, secures their place in History as extraordinary people.<br />An extremely interesting, and well-documented Biography.	2001-01-17
2137768:US	53047425	R25RU2USZP2KFO	0679761616	152707885	Letters from London	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Not Like Any Letters I have Read	This collection of \\"letters\\" by Mr. Julian Barnes, are actually a collection of articles that he wrote during his 5 years as the London Correspondent for The New Yorker Magazine. His predecessor held the position for over half a Century. However if judged by the quality of this collection of work, tenure is in no way related to talent. A book's preface is rarely mentioned as a great piece of writing. This preface is, and that's before the true collection begins.<br />If you have never read a work by Mr. Barnes, this would be a great place to begin. I have read almost all of his work, and this series of articles or short stories are really tremendous. I don't know how writers feel about the topic, but it would seem to be more difficult to be constrained by actual events, than having the ability to let their imaginations fill their books. Mr. Barnes takes some topics that are truly mundane on the surface, and transforms them into extremely clever pieces.<br />One of the comments on the jacket commented the table of contents alone justified the price of the book. A bit of hyperbole perhaps, but they are clever and more often than not lead to subjects that are very distant from what a first glance may suggest. \\"MPTV\\" gives his take on how one of the older operating institutions of Democracy is changed when cameras put the MP'S on public display. \\"Britannia's New Bra Size\\" has nothing to do with undergarments, but is full of his unique wit on the peculiarities of British Bureaucracy and the imaginative ways it consumes years.<br />His pen strays From England to France, The United States, and the Nation's Leaders. He is even handed with his crisp wit, but he never sinks to levels lower than his subjects have generally sunk before him.<br />I also enjoy the writing and humor of Christopher Buckley. If you do as well you will enjoy Mr. Barnes. He is certainly a British Practitioner of the art of satire, and while I never have heard a satisfactory explanation of what \\"British Humor\\" is, this man excels at it.h Humor\\" is, this man excels at it.	2001-01-16
2139951:US	53047425	RN08S5OHXTMXI	1929175043	486366689	Mary's World : Love, War, and Family Ties in Nineteenth-century Charleston	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Work For A Whole New Audience On A Familiar Topic	The Civil War that this Country suffered through is probably one of the more heavily documented periods in our History, and by extension the topic of many books. I believe this book is quite unique, and by its nature will be of interest to a much wider group of readers than many other books on this period of History.<br />I have read several works on the Civil War, however I claim no extraordinary knowledge. My reading has generally been confined to the memoirs of the more notable participants, and on the events that lead to the conflict, the carnage that ensued, and the remnants that many would argue still echo to the present.<br />This is not a book based on the life of a soldier, rather a woman who had 13 children some who were sons, and several that were lost to the war. This book is not about battles, but the results and the damage they caused on a human/familial scale, not a North versus South scale. The view is not completely without bias for these are the papers of a woman of The South, a Plantation Owner's Wife, and a woman who literally lived at the flashpoint for the war. Despite these facts, this was a woman who was well educated, thoughtful, and held ideas that would appear to be in opposition to what a reader would expect.<br />This woman had children fighting in the war, located in The North during the war, in San Francisco, and in Europe during the war. Nothing usual about this woman, whether one considers the Family she produced, the diversity of personalities they became, or how she coped with them all while sitting atop the peak of society, and then traveling to its absolute opposite in the wake of the war.<br />This book may appear daunting from its size, but this is not the case. The book is happily filled with an unusual number of photographs that are placed in context, not isolated in the midst of the book, forcing the reader to copy and paste their memories and pictures to the relevant passage. The book is also filled with excellent source notes befitting a work of scholarly writing.<br />The war is a critical part of this book, but it is a part. The economics of rice growing and the methods of cultivation are explained, and I found it fascinating. The daily life well before, and well after the war is also explained and experienced. This is not a snapshot of a Family over the period of a war. This is the biography of a Family that stretches across the centuries until the Author brings you to the home on the cover that stands to this day.<br />The material that is the basis for this book is first hand source material. This is not hundreds of pages of editorial from the Author's point of view. The records certainly must be viewed through the eyes of those who they were written by, but as I said, they often surprise.<br />Mr. Cote has created a memorable work; he has produced a biography that can be applied to so many categories. This book is Mary's story, the story of her family that came before, and followed her. This is the story of a way of life, the events that lead to the deadliest war this Nation has ever fought.<br />This is a Biography of a part of our History, perhaps not of our entire Nation's, but certainly one of the most critical and perilous times our Nation ever faced. An extraordinary, and scholarly work that is not only a monument to the time that was spent creating it, but to the Author who gave his time to bring it to all of us.<br />Unconditionally Recommended!tes befitting a work of scholarly writing.<br />The war is a critical part of this book, but it is a part. The economics of rice growing and the methods of cultivation are explained, and I found it fascinating. The daily life well before, and well after the war is also explained and experienced. This is not a snapshot of a Family over the period of a war. This is the biography of a Family that stretches across the centuries until the Author brings you to the home on the cover that stands to this day.<br />The material that is the basis for this book is first hand source material. This is not hundreds of pages of editorial from the Author's point of view. The records certainly must be viewed through the eyes of those who they were written by, but as I said, they often surprise.<br />Mr. Cote has created a memorable work; he has produced a biography that can be applied to so many categories. This book is Mary's story, the story of her family that came before, and followed her. This is the story of a way of life, the events that lead to the deadliest war this Nation has ever fought.<br />This is a Biography of a part of our History, perhaps not of our entire Nation's, but certainly one of the most critical and perilous times our Nation ever faced. An extraordinary, and scholarly work that is not only a monument to the time that was spent creating it, but to the Author who gave his time to bring it to all of us.<br />Unconditionally Recommended!	2001-01-15
2156253:US	53047425	RBG5U9E5LBA0X	0679748202	239334084	Staring at the Sun	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Maybe There Is An Absolute	There are some questions that men and women have been asking since questions were formed and given their name. And for these questions there still are no answers, no proof that a person who has fears can rely on, can take absolute unconditional comfort in. For me this is what Mr. Julian Barnes was addressing in his book, \\"Staring Into The Sun\\", for you it may be different, but I believe you will share the enjoyment I had.<br />This is the 9th book I have read by this Author. While I would not presume to claim I know what his message has been on the other 8 books, I do feel I had a better grasp with those I previously read than with this novel. All of the writer's work leaves plenty of room to drill down and experience his books as a reader. This time he was not just exercising his talents creating either a uniquely interpretive work, or a wholly original one, rather he was addressing what is common to us all.<br />Jean Sarjeant is described on the jacket as, \\"having an extraordinary disdain for wisdom\\". Another character in the book describes her as abysmally stupid. This book tracks her life for a century, and she is many things, however not those descriptions I have just mentioned. Jean is extremely inquisitive; she also is unconventional to the point that some may find her a bit eccentric. In the course of the book she has a son that shares all of her disinterest in what normal society defines as normal.<br />The issues at hand and the answers to the questions they have generated for millennia having nothing to do with conventional wisdom, nor do they shed their answers when confronted by a high I.Q. or the most technologically advanced man-made machine. This is not so much a story about answers, but of differentiating between knowledge and understanding, and acceptance or the rejection of an idea due to lack of definitive information.<br />The Absolute Truth, which takes the form of T.A.T. in the book, is embraced by many and rejected by Jean. In the latter parts of the book, radical changes have taken place in society's views of death, but death itself never has changed nor does it here. Jean pursues those big unknowns that everyone struggles with at one point or another in her own manner, while her son pursues the quest he is on through technology.<br />I found it interesting that I finished this novel just as we embark on the year 2001, a date that has been anticipated for so long due to Arthur C. Clarke and his Space Odyssey. We have not reached the levels of technology that he envisioned, and I believe the same may be said for our own development as well. Mr. Clarke delved into the most fundamental of issues, and Mr. Barnes takes his turn here. This time the story stretches to 2021, the issue is what more have we learned if we have learned anything at all.<br />The book is striking, and the special sunrises and a sunset are very dramatic. The questions may be old, and they may also never be answered. However as long as the topic is dealt with using the talent of Mr. Barnes and others, their ideas will always be interesting to read.<br />As to the absolute comment, it may be that certain questions have never had answers, and that they never will.s of the book, radical changes have taken place in society's views of death, but death itself never has changed nor does it here. Jean pursues those big unknowns that everyone struggles with at one point or another in her own manner, while her son pursues the quest he is on through technology.<br />I found it interesting that I finished this novel just as we embark on the year 2001, a date that has been anticipated for so long due to Arthur C. Clarke and his Space Odyssey. We have not reached the levels of technology that he envisioned, and I believe the same may be said for our own development as well. Mr. Clarke delved into the most fundamental of issues, and Mr. Barnes takes his turn here. This time the story stretches to 2021, the issue is what more have we learned if we have learned anything at all.<br />The book is striking, and the special sunrises and a sunset are very dramatic. The questions may be old, and they may also never be answered. However as long as the topic is dealt with using the talent of Mr. Barnes and others, their ideas will always be interesting to read.<br />As to the absolute comment, it may be that certain questions have never had answers, and that they never will.	2001-01-02
2157486:US	53047425	R1GADMWCV1UE3G	0679736859	317828516	Athena	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Open To Interpretation	This is the 4th work by Mr. John Banville that I have read, and I am nearly finished with his fifth. There is much that is factual about this writer, amongst these would be, his intellect, his range as a writer, and the competency he writes with while ranging through very different subject matter and material. As others have noted he is adept with metaphor. I feel his talent is not that he uses the device so frequently, but does so with such a subtle touch, it is more akin to absorbing his thoughts, as opposed to checking them off, or making a list.<br />This is easily the most difficult of his works that I have been through. This is not because he is vague, or style overrides substance. He is clear in what he says; placing it all into proper context and order is another matter. I do not suggest this book is an exercise in chaos. I do feel it is a reading experience that is in fact as far from definitive as the book jacket suggests it to be. Another reader has suggested that prior to reading this book that, \\"Ghosts\\", and \\"Book Of Evidence\\", should be read first. I am sufficiently unsure that I came away from the book with the Author's entire message, so if you can read the other two first, it may help.<br />Primarily written in the first person in the voice of, \\"Morrow\\", a new name to distance himself from a past, allows the reader to listen in as he recounts his period of time with, \\"A\\". At times we witness events in the present, but more frequently we are told of what has already taken place, what decisions were made and why. Just the explanation of how Morrow arrived at his new name will either bore you, or entice you into Mr. Banville's narrative style. For Morrow nearly everything is the result of, or likened to another, be it an event, a person, a name, or a moment in time. The relationships he devises are indicative not of a man who was an unsuccessful felon, but more of a mind bordering on that of an Oxford Don.<br />Regardless of how well educated our narrator is, he is also willing to engage in a relationship with \\"A\\" that evolves into what some may compare to Nabokov, although this time age is not the issue. And then there are the balance of the cast all that are creatures that might be termed, \\"Banvillian\\", just as Marley and Drood are classified Dickensian. Dickens players had their kinks just as Banville's do, although Banville's are closer to seriously bent than kinked.<br />The plot line that is sketched on the jacket of our Morrow and some paintings of dubious status together with a mention of \\"A\\" does not begin to explore the depths of this work. As has been the case with all the books I have read, his writing is so well constructed, his characters so well detailed, that even if the surface storyline is as far as you choose to go, you will be rewarded. However, to do so would cheat you, of all that is there to be interpreted, and all that is almost there, or almost definitively referred to.<br />This Author's more existential work may be more of an acquired taste, than, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\", or, \\"Kepler\\". In any event any reader who enjoys talented writing will find time well used that is spent with Mr. Banville's work.tor is, he is also willing to engage in a relationship with \\"A\\" that evolves into what some may compare to Nabokov, although this time age is not the issue. And then there are the balance of the cast all that are creatures that might be termed, \\"Banvillian\\", just as Marley and Drood are classified Dickensian. Dickens players had their kinks just as Banville's do, although Banville's are closer to seriously bent than kinked.<br />The plot line that is sketched on the jacket of our Morrow and some paintings of dubious status together with a mention of \\"A\\" does not begin to explore the depths of this work. As has been the case with all the books I have read, his writing is so well constructed, his characters so well detailed, that even if the surface storyline is as far as you choose to go, you will be rewarded. However, to do so would cheat you, of all that is there to be interpreted, and all that is almost there, or almost definitively referred to.<br />This Author's more existential work may be more of an acquired taste, than, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\", or, \\"Kepler\\". In any event any reader who enjoys talented writing will find time well used that is spent with Mr. Banville's work.	2001-01-01
2157743:US	53047425	R2BZ2SE4O1QFYY	0679767479	801720322	The Untouchable	Books	5	5	6	N	N	With This Author It Reads As New Material	Prior to reading this work, \\"The Untouchable\\", I had read, \\"Athena\\", also written by Mr. Banville. I have read 5 of his works, however at this point these are as different and far from one another as novels can be. That Mr. Banville is able to write at tremendously separated points on a literary map is a testament to his work as an Author.<br />As in, \\"Athena\\", the events of the novel are told primarily in the first person by Victor. The difference this time through is that Victor is a historically based individual, as are many others in the novel. Victor is one of,\\"The Cambridge 5\\", the group of Soviet Spies that maintained there cover for so very long, with the 5th man not being identified publicly until many decades after others had fled to the Soviet Union. Victor is not the name of one of the spies as they existed for so many years, and the names placed on the others are not precise either. If you have read about this group or even one of its more flamboyant members, Kim Philby for example, all the players become readily recognizable.<br />Mr. Banville delivers a remarkable mosaic of what this particular man may have written had he placed his memories on paper. Victor never wavered from viewing himself as a Royalist, yet he worked for the Communists, without pay. He also worked for the King arranging the Royal Art Collection. His sexuality produced a marriage that lasted until his wife's death, produced two children, while he was discovering and acknowledging his homosexuality. He was raised a Catholic, he married a Jewish woman, and was amazed when she was buried in the traditional Jewish manner, and that his children were conversant in their Mother's religion as well. Even his wife, referred to as Baby until she had one of her own, was able to pass as a man dressed in formal wear and her androgyny. There is nothing about this man that is simple, he is not publicly exposed as a spy until he has ceased from the activity for over 30 years.<br />I found this to be the finest study of an individual by Mr. Banville, with the possible exception of his, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\". The latter is not necessarily better, and which you prefer may depend on the historical period during which their lives take place.<br />This is an excellent piece of work, and yet another example of this Author's range and depth of knowledge. Whether he is dealing with Kepler, Copernicus, 17th Century Flemish Art, or World War Two, his competency is absolute.e the finest study of an individual by Mr. Banville, with the possible exception of his, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\". The latter is not necessarily better, and which you prefer may depend on the historical period during which their lives take place.<br />This is an excellent piece of work, and yet another example of this Author's range and depth of knowledge. Whether he is dealing with Kepler, Copernicus, 17th Century Flemish Art, or World War Two, his competency is absolute.	2001-01-01
2158350:US	53047425	R2ISNQHDARCMB7	0452281229	17793490	The Chisellers	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Without Qualification, Flawless The Sequel	A sequel to a wonderful book is inherently at risk. For when it is to be read by a person familiar with the initial experience, part two is almost predestined to be disappointment. Book one has the advantage of introducing all that is new. The final of the three can tie all the experiences together, can bring closure. But the middle event must maintain the reader's enthusiasm. When the story and its execution are excellent, the reader is enthusiastic for the final event. The last book is not read just to complete the cycle. Happily there are no absolutes, exceptions ensure that there will be pleasant surprises, not all repeated experience need be as expected.<br />With, &quot;The Chisellers&quot;, Mr. Brendan O'Carroll has repeated the brilliance of, &quot;The Mammy&quot;, without resorting to repeating himself as a writer, or forcing his characters to remain unchanged. This writer brings all of the people you love in part one and he allows them to evolve as a person would in their own life. The mood of this book is different, but is also a natural progression. The Browne Clan is getting older; adulthood envelops some, while it still awaits the younger children. Agnes too is aging, adapting to the dramatic changes she was forced to cope with in the first book. However as I mentioned when commenting upon, &quot;The Mammy&quot;, Mr. O'Carroll tells a wonderful story, which happens to take place with an Irish Family. While it is true this brings with it some detail that may be familiar, the fact that this is an Irish Family is never what drives this book. He never allows his work to cheat and use the easy clich&eacute;.<br />The Author also brings to this wonderful trilogy people that are not Catholic, that are not Irish, and they are not by default the evil players. His story is inclusive; the world he writes about is not a fantasyland where the pains and trials of life are absent. But neither is it a world that when suffering appears, it appears as a certain brand, a certain nationality, a certain group of worn clich&eacute;s.<br />And in this second book there is great pain, there is senseless destruction and loss. And while it would be very easy of accusing the Author of being a bit too neat with finding the lining of silver in one cloud too many, it is no more than most tales of Ireland when every cloud contains a granite mountain.<br />This amazing writer is two for two, and now it remains to be seen if he has the final third of the hat trick within him. For this middle installment is as good as number one, so he has nothing to improve upon, as the first two were uniformly tremendous.in nationality, a certain group of worn clichs.<br />And in this second book there is great pain, there is senseless destruction and loss. And while it would be very easy of accusing the Author of being a bit too neat with finding the lining of silver in one cloud too many, it is no more than most tales of Ireland when every cloud contains a granite mountain.<br />This amazing writer is two for two, and now it remains to be seen if he has the final third of the hat trick within him. For this middle installment is as good as number one, so he has nothing to improve upon, as the first two were uniformly tremendous.	2000-12-31
2159094:US	53047425	R17BSCZSEZEVEO	0452281849	524990728	The Granny	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Completion Of The Perfect Trilogy	Mr. Brendan O'Carroll has created with, &quot;The Mammy&quot;, &quot;The Chisellers&quot;, and, &quot;The Granny&quot;, a trilogy that is exceptionally well written, a joy to read, and an alternative Irish Tale. I differentiate this work from the more familiar read about an Irish Family, for while the life of this Family is far from perfect, it is not extreme in its portrayal of the darker sides of people, be they Irish, or in the case of this book, French or Jewish as well. Of the three books this could be noted as the one that brings events together too neatly, especially when a given outcome is positive. I believe this appraisal would be unfair, as the Author balances the experiences of his characters, and even if he had favored the positive, why would that be deserving of scorn?<br />This book does bring certain threads of the story to a conclusion. The Author could easily continue the stories of this Family, or a given member, but the trilogy; I believe should stand by itself.<br />Once again the third book takes place when additional time has passed. The Browne Children are children no longer, and with offspring of their own the cycle begins again with the newest of the Brownes. Agnes transitions from Mammy to Granny, as her children take their place as Mammies and Dads to children of there own. Some of the new Families are traditional, some less so, however as in the previous two books while ignorance and the ugly behavior it breeds is not hidden, overall acceptance and tolerance are great virtues of this man's work.<br />The three works are as close to faultless storytelling as I have read, and I hope I can look forward to many more books by this Author. He will have a tremendous challenge to repeat this success, but as he has done it three times in succession, waiting for additional novels should not be a wait in vain.<br />If you come to the end of this book and your eyes are not at least full, see your Doctor. Your tear ducts are clogged.<br />Mr. O'Carroll my sincere thanks.ll my sincere thanks.	2000-12-31
2164431:US	53047425	R1F5FC8C04MW07	0452281032	825719637	The Mammy	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Without Qualification, Flawless	The photograph on the cover of this book is spectacular, and everything Mr. Brendon O'Carroll includes within is wonderful! This Irish tale is unlike any other I have read. The book is not cluttered with Irish clich&eacute;'s, which even if true to one degree or another, can nonetheless become tiresome. It has often been said that there are no happy endings in an Irish tale, and while this is the first installment of three, it would take multiple disasters to change the overall mood of this Family and Friends.<br />The story is about two female friends, the joy they share, their everyday lives, and the pain that all relationships eventually suffer. However this friendship is not subject to damage or limitation. The dialogue is a riotous tear from beginning to end. Your own laughter will continually interrupt your page turning, but the intrusions are part of the fun. The characters laugh until they hold their sides, and you will be as well as Mr. O'Carroll's dialogue is brilliant. There is a scene when a driving lesson is to take place. If I have read better humor I cannot remember what it was.<br />The wonderful part of the laughter in this book is that it is not only for covering the pain of daily life. The lives you encounter are far from consistently ideal, but the laughter and joy these women share and spread is genuine, not dark, and not meant as emotional misdirection.<br />This is a brief work, however the Author managed to include so much more than emotional extremes. The 15-year-old eldest son of Agnes meets a man who offers him money for a job that makes no sense to the boy. Think of every negative direction this opening can take and then forget them all. Mr. O'Carroll takes this vignette within, \\"Mammy\\", and shows so much of what Humanity could be. The beauty of this mini-tale is that it is not the nave thoughts of wide-eyed youth. It is a look at how people should treat each other, what should be important when we meet someone, and most importantly how foolish our normal reactions routinely are.<br />This is one very talented man with a pen, and he made this Christmas a memorable one for me.sh our normal reactions routinely are.<br />This is one very talented man with a pen, and he made this Christmas a memorable one for me.	2000-12-26
2165792:US	53047425	R2KZX4SIHZOED3	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Mr. Le Carres Work Sets The Standard	Mr. Le Carre has written a collection of novels that can stand as the equal of virtually any Author, and generally his work towers over most. He is one of living legends of the genre he occupies, and in this, his 18th novel he demonstrates the elegant writing, the intricate story, and the diverse characters that have won him such respect as an Author. This novel, \\"The Constant Gardner\\" brings back the Author who brought sweeping novels like \\"A Perfect Spy\\", and the stories of Smiley and his people to readers.<br />Many Authors, who were dependent upon The Cold War for material, stumbled when the wall came down. Many recovered to various degrees; many others deservedly have faded, as their limited area of expertise became History. Still others try and concoct storylines from the former USSR, but the results are as fragmented as the Former Republics.<br />Mr. Le Carre never paused, as he is a writer, not a one trick hack. With, \\"The Constant Gardner\\" he has once again delivered a novel that is sweeping in scope, attentive to detail, highly relevant, and thankfully a work that takes its time. This Author does not write books that are meant to be skimmed. He writes thoughtful, cerebral, and often introspective work that takes time to read. He can write, so he does not need to fill his books with mindless violence, every techno-gadget real and imagined, or absurd and irrelevant love polygons.<br />The central player in this book is hardly computer literate. Not many Authors could pull this off without it reading as farce. However if you are tired of the banker/lawyer turned super-hero that assembles a massively parallel computer from 2 soup cans and his watch, this book is for you. If you like writing that can take the death of a single innocent person, and create more emotion from the reader than the writer who kills thousands while you yawn, again this is for you.<br />What extremely sparse and intelligent criticism of this book I have read can be remedied in the 4 page Author's note at the end of the book. This Novel is so close to the edge of non-fiction that the notes will surprise you. This is not a medical textbook, this is about very large international pharmaceutical companies and the impact they have. If you want detailed knowledge about drug testing, go to the Centers For Disease Control Website. This is not a short book; it would be impossible to create what this writer produced if satisfying the attention span of a gnat was the goal. Thankfully as many books get shorter and more repetitive, there are Authors who can still take the time, and have the talent to write a work of length. A work that is neither shorter nor longer than it need be.<br />If this were a movie it would run 3+ hours in length. This is not a pre-packaged insipid screenplay, designed to produce a sound bite movie that can be run the maximum number of times at the local Cineplex. There are brilliant writers of short stories. Penelope Fitzgerald, Julian Barnes, and John Banville produce more impact in a couple of hundred pages than many Authors can produce in one thousand pages, and half a dozen books. However like Mr. Le Carre they use the space they need, they use the space their talent allows them to use; their work's length does not indicate quality. They are writers not some former occupant of a profession, turned wannabee novelist that runs off yet another Xeroxed bit of mediocrity.<br />This is an important work that uses the novel to bring very real issues to an audience that an Author of Mr. Le Carre stature commands. That he chose to do this, as opposed to another version on a tired theme is a tribute to him as an Author a person, and to those he believes will be the readers and the beneficiaries of this book.<br />A book does not have to have a message of critical contemporary relevance to be important. This work does, and as such is not only a book to be read for entertainment, but a work that asks some very tough questions after showing very disturbing realities.ery disturbing realities.	2000-12-25
2166050:US	53047425	R3UXJAEGHQ18C8	0679743707	855740623	Kepler: A novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Nice Progression From Dr. Copernicus	John Banville's, \\"Dr. Copernicus\\", was excellent in its entirety, and sections of the work were exceptional. \\"Kepler\\" which is a sequel in a Historical sense, may not match the former for its consistency of excellence, however it is still a very good novel, it takes the work of Copernicus another step, and is a piece of work that is 5 star material when compared to much of contemporary writing. The four star ranking is only relative to, \\"Dr. Copernicus\\".<br />The idea of whether these early stargazers believed their work documented truth or merely supported what they observed is taken a step further with Kepler and his work. When Kepler and his peers were working, mathematical proof was becoming the essence of what they would eventually publish. Work that appeared to explain what was seen was no longer enough, proving it to oneself and one's peers was the new test. One of the great enigmas that Kepler sought to solve was the orbit of Mercury. His findings were to change the Copernican view of the Universe, while Galileo was extending the very reach of it.<br />The science, and the math employed are raised a couple of steps from the previous novel, and are part of why I liked this work less. Understanding complex ideas should not be brought down to such simplistic levels so that no effort to understand is required, and whatever is learned is of little use as it relates to the true and complete idea. I always enjoy a writer that can explain complex theory in a manner that allows an inquisitive mind to be challenged, and the science enjoyed. In \\"Kepler\\", this did not happen the majority of the time. So the reader must just take on faith what is said, or study some pretty advanced geometry.<br />\\"Kepler\\" also does not have characters that gain your empathy, and at times you may struggle to find them interesting. Money, position, prestige, all conspire to intrude upon the greater goals, and I found them distracting. However the treatment of the Church and the Schism, and the effect on Kepler and his work, was very well done, interesting, and demonstrated the Church's constant interference with the scientists they were terrified of, for their work would undermine the Church's long taught fictions.<br />Mr. Banville is a writer of remarkable skill. I am reading the fourth of his books, and the quality of writing, his skill with a pen is never an issue. How he presents his story may or may not be enjoyable to a given reader, but all will appreciate the skill with which he writes.the effect on Kepler and his work, was very well done, interesting, and demonstrated the Church's constant interference with the scientists they were terrified of, for their work would undermine the Church's long taught fictions.<br />Mr. Banville is a writer of remarkable skill. I am reading the fourth of his books, and the quality of writing, his skill with a pen is never an issue. How he presents his story may or may not be enjoyable to a given reader, but all will appreciate the skill with which he writes.	2000-12-24
2167052:US	53047425	R10C1NZWR9IDO2	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	2	20	26	N	N	Did George Lucas Adopt Skywalker	\\"The Eye Of The Needle\\" by Ken Follett was the first book I ever read in this genre. It remains to the present one of the best of the entries in the category it occupies. It was damaged by a movie, but many books share the same fate. Unfortunately, for me at least, subsequent books never reached the level of the mentioned novel, and Mr. Follett chose to explore other subjects and I stopped reading his work. When I read of the release of, \\"Code To Zero\\", I thought he had returned to his earlier subject matter and style. \\"Pillars Of The Earth\\", and other works were very good, but not the type of work that introduced me to him as a writer.<br />Little issues when they multiply are annoying, when combined with a story that lacks originality, has characters that are a bit on the shallow side, and ridiculous coincidence is the order of the day, the book became a disappointment.<br />Luke Lucas is the star of the show. I understand that not everyone has read or even cares about Star Wars, but for those who are familiar, this name was one of the sillier contrivances for a name I have read. So when this name appears laughter ensues. When Luke is trying to regain his memory he reaches a point of discovery and declares, (I'm not kidding), \\"I'm a rocket scientist\\"! And the clich&eacute;s keep on coming.<br />Imagine that you entire memory is gone, even to the point that you have forgotten this book. What would be a plausible period of time to regain any clue as to who you were? Virtually any length you would suggest is more believable than this storyline. Probably the weakest aspect was the Author's decision to just introduce his cast, and then pick them up, fast forward a few years, and place them all down in circumstances that are less likely than winning the lottery, twice. Members of this group who serve time in the military and describe their first lethal event recall events so similar, you will wonder if you read incorrectly, you are reading a clue, when all it is, is laziness.<br />I had very high hopes for this work as Mr. Follett has written some wonderful novels. This book is many things but wonderful it is not. No Author writes a brilliant book every time out, and this is such an example. If you choose to pass on this, you will have missed little.<br />I had very high hopes for this work as Mr. Follett has written some wonderful novels. This book is many things but wonderful it is not. No Author writes a brilliant book every time out, and this is such an example. If you choose to pass on this, you will have missed little.	2000-12-23
2168287:US	53047425	R3TVN7S5NTX5D7	0679737995	226184041	Doctor Copernicus	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Exceptional Piece Of Writing	This is the second work by Mr. John Banville I have read. The first was said by critics to be \\"the finest\\" introduction to this Author's work. I have now completed, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\", and can state it is immeasurably better. I have also started his work, \\"Kepler\\" and it shows all the same talent that Copernicus held.<br />Mr. Banville has at his command a wide scope of knowledge together with the talent to know when to put it to use. He places the thoughts of other noted thinkers within his story, so that they are seamless, as opposed to sound bite flourishes. The thoughts of Soren Kierkegaard, Albert Einstein, and Max Planck all join the writings of Dr. Copernicus, all assembled by Mr. Banville, as needed, appropriate, and without pretense.<br />Science is too often presented in a manner that the layperson is discouraged from pursuing the information. Historical fiction certainly should not be the only source for fact-finding, but when handled as well as this Author presents the material; it's accessible for anyone that is inquisitive. Copernicus's idea of Heliocentricity, the Elliptical Orbits of the Planets, which is dealt with humorously, and all the trials of defining new science are both readable and enjoyable. Particularly well presented was the whole concept of how theories, and published material was viewed by the Scientists in the 16th Century. Did Copernicus believe that his explanation was in fact a picture of reality, or that what he documented merely agreed with what he observed? Sounds a bit dry, but the writing is brilliant.<br />The last 19 pages entitled, \\"Magnum Miraculum\\", are some of the best writing I have had the privilege to read. Life, death, redemption, and a dozen other concepts are presented in a totally original manner, and with an irony that is painful and beautiful as well.<br />Somewhere else I read that this was the Writer that would bring back the Nobel Prize For Literature to Ireland. The Isle has already brought forth writers who have won the award that has Ireland in the top 10 Countries for the first 100 years of the prize. If the balance of his work is this good, the prediction will become fact.o have won the award that has Ireland in the top 10 Countries for the first 100 years of the prize. If the balance of his work is this good, the prediction will become fact.	2000-12-21
2171056:US	53047425	R24MIGG4OHAOFF	1567920969	417648554	The Newton Letter	Books	3	4	9	N	N	The Best Introduction	This is how a major newspaper describes Mr. Banville's book, \\"The Newton Letter\\". It is the first work of his that I have read, and I have his work, \\"Doctor Copernicus\\", up next. This is a very brief piece at 81 pages. As such the Author attempted to include all his thoughts in a form that the reader could grasp in the briefest of space. I do look forward to his longer works, or at least the reading of one, as this was not just subtle, it was vague to the point of being incomprehensible.<br />His writing is thoughtful, and thought provoking. It also, in this instance is so light on detail, and so brief, I find it impossible to believe this is his best. It seems that it more likely parallels the Author in the story who has an unfinished book, and then perhaps Newton who has a life/career finished too soon. Newton's problem according to Historians was that his great work was done before his life had run its course. He was reduced to interpreting the Book Of Genesis, and spending countless and wasted weeks/months/years with the fiction of alchemy. But what is the basis for the comparison with the Author's \\"Breakdown\\". Newton's accomplishments were extraordinary leading up to his frustrations, what has this fictional Author done?<br />The fictional Author has accomplished nothing but an unfinished book about a man I feel he believes was disenchanted when he finally understood that what he spent the greater part of his life upon, was not what he had believed it to be. That perhaps what he saw was remarkable for what it was, but as a man of science he contributed nothing but observation. Newton felt he was a spectator, nothing more. This thought also appears to be the excuse the Author uses to explain his own emotional difficulties. He has spent all of 7 years to discover his subject came to understand that what he thought \\"did not matter\\", so by extension this Biographer's work could not matter either.<br />What saves this book is the writing. Others could have served the role of Newton, and the months his Biographer spends with one romance while thinking he desires another was tiresome. Had I been the recipient of his letters instead of his fictional counterpart in the book, I probably would have even less sympathy for him, than I did as a reader.<br />The Author of the book also makes enigmatic comments about seemingly unrelated ideas like DaVinci's, \\"Virgin On The Rocks\\", but again I ask why? The painting was not admired when first viewed, but it was not a problem for the artist. Leonardo rarely finished many of his works.<br />If this work is indeed his best, then I don't know if I will even get through, \\"Dr. Copernicus\\". This may be an example of critics creating much more from a work than actually exists. I certainly hope so.e role of Newton, and the months his Biographer spends with one romance while thinking he desires another was tiresome. Had I been the recipient of his letters instead of his fictional counterpart in the book, I probably would have even less sympathy for him, than I did as a reader.<br />The Author of the book also makes enigmatic comments about seemingly unrelated ideas like DaVinci's, \\"Virgin On The Rocks\\", but again I ask why? The painting was not admired when first viewed, but it was not a problem for the artist. Leonardo rarely finished many of his works.<br />If this work is indeed his best, then I don't know if I will even get through, \\"Dr. Copernicus\\". This may be an example of critics creating much more from a work than actually exists. I certainly hope so.	2000-12-19
2172402:US	53047425	R1LCW3QQW75ZN4	1582430950	28078022	The Knox Brothers	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Beautiful Tribute	Penelope Fitzgerald produced some of the finest short novels written. Before she started her career as a novelist she wrote these collected biographies of her father and his 3 brothers in 1977. It seems appropriate that this collection of familial histories was updated and placed in its final form by Ms. Fitzgerald shortly before her death.<br />For those that believe Genetics play a role in the hereditary talent of later generations, this book certainly will reinforce that view. Whether when reviewing her Father's life, or that of his 3 brothers, all these men were exceptional in there own manner. There were characteristics they held in common; amongst them were brilliant wits, and integrity. The latter trait would seem redundant, or perhaps should be one we hope someday will be for all men like her Uncle Wilfred and her Uncle Ronald.  Both of these men were Priests, but even here these Brothers maintained their own identities. Wilfred was an Anglo-Catholic Priest, and his Brother was a Priest of The Roman Catholic Church. The History of these men's lives are all of great interest, however the differences in the Religious Denominations, at first so similar to the ear, and then so different theologically, provided some of the more interesting aspects of the book.<br />Father Ronald went beyond the normal duties of his calling, and expanded his talents not only into journalism, but I believe rather specially as an Author of Detective Novels. All this was in addition to being The Chaplain At Oxford, and a man who translated a revised form of The New Testament, so that so many more could enjoy the writings.<br />For readers familiar with World War II, the word Enigma has a meaning in excess of the dictionary definition. Enigma was the machine that the Germans used for enciphering their communications, had it remained a secret, the War if nothing else would have been lengthened, perhaps dramatically. Uncle Dillwyn was repeatedly promoted and was critical to \\"finding a way in\\" to Enigma, and was credited with contributing to several strategic victories that without the understanding of Enigma could not have taken place.<br />Her Father was again a man of many gifts, but it is his time as Editor of the legendary \\"Punch Magazine\\" that seemed to best define the man's many traits. He too was a writer, journalist, humorist, and devoted Husband and Father. He may or may not have foreseen that a short 6 years after his death his Daughter Penelope would begin her own literary career with a book that paid tribute to he and his brothers.<br />Ms. Fitzgerald does honor to the memories of her family members without appearing to lose objectivity, and succumbing to fawning over her subjects. If you have read her books, or the interviews she gave none of this will come as a surprise. She was a woman of great talent, minimal ego, and she happily, for readers, shared all her gifts.ay in\\" to Enigma, and was credited with contributing to several strategic victories that without the understanding of Enigma could not have taken place.<br />Her Father was again a man of many gifts, but it is his time as Editor of the legendary \\"Punch Magazine\\" that seemed to best define the man's many traits. He too was a writer, journalist, humorist, and devoted Husband and Father. He may or may not have foreseen that a short 6 years after his death his Daughter Penelope would begin her own literary career with a book that paid tribute to he and his brothers.<br />Ms. Fitzgerald does honor to the memories of her family members without appearing to lose objectivity, and succumbing to fawning over her subjects. If you have read her books, or the interviews she gave none of this will come as a surprise. She was a woman of great talent, minimal ego, and she happily, for readers, shared all her gifts.	2000-12-18
2172502:US	53047425	R23WPFUMHJP646	067976755X	652404007	Cross Channel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	This Time 10, Not 10.5	Mr. Julian Barnes wrote his History of the world in 10 and one half chapters. In this collection of short stories he decided to be a bit more conventional, and confine his 10 stories to only 10 chapters. It is here the similarity stops, for while this Author is not the only writer to have published shorter versions of their written thoughts, just like his novels they are special, unique, and share place with only a few peers.<br />The commonality here is not as apparent as in his \\"History Of The World\\", or other collections that carry a continuous thread. There is the consistency of the experiences of the English and the French, and the events they share, memorialize, desecrate, and impose upon one another. The most interesting manner by which these stories are linked is literally explained in the final sentence. It is not a clumsy device, but a bit of insight typical of Mr. Barnes.<br />While a given story may not encompass a great swath of time, when taken as an assemblage the reader tours the Centuries ranging from the 17th to the 21st. And while not heavy handed, he manages to bring together the farthest stretches of time in his stories to common points. They are often subtle, other times less so, but always inventive. Two aspects I enjoyed were the use of \\"The Dragons\\", and the part wine played in this writing.<br />Many of the stories are lighter, highlighting relationships, shared positive experience, and success. Mr. Barnes brings balance to this anthology by also exposing the darker sides of man's history, as well as his attributes. We watch Religious fervor visited with a cruelness that is painfully unique to the religiously persecuted, one person's vision of a time when sacrifice will not longer be remembered much less honored, and the events that the future does unfold.<br />Memories play a variety of roles even when uttered by the same individual. The reader can decide if the recalled thoughts are revisionary, romanticized, or outright fabrication. But whichever category you choose you will be greatly entertained.whichever category you choose you will be greatly entertained.	2000-12-18
2176791:US	53047425	R2VW6W6Y093APY	0375705503	776660814	England, England	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Orlando, A Sovereign Nation	A stretch perhaps, but as it approaches Rhode Island in size, Statehood may be the viable alternative. Imagine for a moment that all the international pavilions at EPCOT decided they were on soil as sovereign as an embassy. That the area in question is landlocked presents difficulties, but certainly nothing an ambitious developer could not resolve. The Panama Canal is ancient from a technological standpoint, so just add the personality of Mr. \\"Art of the Deal\\", the drive of Attila, and presto, Orlando the Island. Or perhaps the peninsula, just hack off the bottom of Florida, they cause so much trouble when voting anyway.<br />In The Booker Prize finalist, \\"England England\\", the megalomaniac that is the developer is Sir Jack, a sort of Demented Disney. This Nation Builder thinks at a speed so swift an idea catcher is present to record and date stamp every inspiration. Sir Jack feels that England is old, dusty, and requires far too much time to view. So The Isle Of Wight is designated to be remade into a one-stop Nation tour, complete with people playing the appropriate historical roles. Nothing is to stand in the way. An assistant raises the issue of the Puffin population, and Sir Jack leads a chorus of, \\"  the Puffins\\". A sort of total immersion for the actors is required for authenticity, that brings with it the ingredients for a human version of Jurassic park. Humans are never feasted upon, but when Robin and his merry men/women/politically correct cast get cranky with their designated food, well the original England had food on the hoof, so they become self-sustaining.<br />The SAS are brought over from the Iranian Embassy they raid on a regularly scheduled basis, and once the Centuries and their actors are made into an amalgam performance, all gets rather complicated.<br />Nothing is left off the list of Julian Barnes for skewering. The European Union, Monarchies past and present, The Hague, International Banks, the list is limited only by the book's length. The closer Jolly Old' England is to your heart, the farther away from the book you should stay.<br />Now the folks that hand out The Booker Prize decided this was the volume that deserved the recognition of finalist, and although I have only read 6 or 7 of this man's books, I must dissent as follows, Martha Cochrane, why is this woman in the book, how does she vault from adolescent Pee grower to CEO of this menagerie. And why must the Achilles heal of Sir Jack be as deviant and repellent as it is, without one whit of originality or wit?<br />Mr. Julian Barnes still is a brilliant writer, he wields an insightful, and at times razor sharp pen. The result is that even when a book is less than this reader has come to expect, the man still writes so well, nit picking is about all there is to do.<br />Sir Jack could have been brought down several notches without the tastelessness that was his weakness, so if this is your first foray into the worlds that Mr. Julian Barnes examines, dissects, and either rebuilds or lays waste to, do not be put off. The man is a great writer, an original thinker, and a gift to readers.he closer Jolly Old' England is to your heart, the farther away from the book you should stay.<br />Now the folks that hand out The Booker Prize decided this was the volume that deserved the recognition of finalist, and although I have only read 6 or 7 of this man's books, I must dissent as follows, Martha Cochrane, why is this woman in the book, how does she vault from adolescent Pee grower to CEO of this menagerie. And why must the Achilles heal of Sir Jack be as deviant and repellent as it is, without one whit of originality or wit?<br />Mr. Julian Barnes still is a brilliant writer, he wields an insightful, and at times razor sharp pen. The result is that even when a book is less than this reader has come to expect, the man still writes so well, nit picking is about all there is to do.<br />Sir Jack could have been brought down several notches without the tastelessness that was his weakness, so if this is your first foray into the worlds that Mr. Julian Barnes examines, dissects, and either rebuilds or lays waste to, do not be put off. The man is a great writer, an original thinker, and a gift to readers.	2000-12-14
2178110:US	53047425	R3CIX4ULVCTVWW	0060195932	389500091	Singing My Him Song	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Totally Unexpected	Not only was I prepared not to like this book, I knew with certainty it would dwell near the bottom of the books I had read this year. The Brothers McCourt had produced a quartet of books, and I was sure this was just a volume to ride the Frank McCourt wave for all it was worth. I was wrong, I was wrong huge, Orca huge! (A nod to Kevin Spacey). Of the 4 books offered thus far, this is easily the better of the 2 from Mr. Malachy McCourt, and second only to, \\"Angela's Ashes\\". Judging by the ranking of the book, and the comparatively few reviews, perhaps I was not alone in my error.<br />This second work from this Author starts and is unremarkable. His life at the beginning of the narration is afflicted with every complaint a reader would expect. When the end of the book arrives you have shared a long, painful, and brutally honest assessment of a life by the man who lived it. I don't know that I have read an autobiographical work that is more personal, pointed, and candid. This man transforms himself from bitter, angry, and sick, whose solace is found in a variety of chemicals, to a man who comes to terms with his life, and changes its course. The book is not a fairy tale. The man at the end is one you would likely be as fond of, as the younger version would have repelled you.<br />There are some remarkable stories within this man's life. A Daughter who is handicapped, the system that she enters that would be the delight of The Marquis De Sade, and a then young reporter, who helped change the system, and is a household name today. Mr. McCourt takes a trip cross country, and tends to a mouse that has found a spot to hitchhike its way to The West Coast in a small hole in the auto. There is the encounter that he and his wife have with one of the more notorious murderers of the 20th Century prior to his crimes. And there are dozens more.<br />This book has a great deal of the wit this man is known for, however to describe this work as humorous or funny would be way off the mark. This was a man who was angry, who marched when it was unpopular to do so, he even had the tapes of one of his radio programs confiscated by The Secret Service, after The Saturday Night Massacre of Nixon fame.<br />To say Mr. McCourt has lived a full life would illicit from him a quip about the wildest form of understatement. He is unique, a one time original. How else do you describe a man who tried to divert the minds of passengers in the midst of skimming the Atlantic Ocean because a door was insecure, by asking if the other passengers would like to meet his Mother? The most normal of questions except when uttered by Mr. McCourt, who when the passengers agreed, produced the ashes of his deceased Mother, whose remains he was bringing back to Ireland to bury. Bad taste...if you find yourself on a plane that may or may not make its destination, hope there is a man or woman aboard who has a sense of humor, who thinks of his fellow passengers.<br />A wonderful book that deserves much more attention.mark. This was a man who was angry, who marched when it was unpopular to do so, he even had the tapes of one of his radio programs confiscated by The Secret Service, after The Saturday Night Massacre of Nixon fame.<br />To say Mr. McCourt has lived a full life would illicit from him a quip about the wildest form of understatement. He is unique, a one time original. How else do you describe a man who tried to divert the minds of passengers in the midst of skimming the Atlantic Ocean because a door was insecure, by asking if the other passengers would like to meet his Mother? The most normal of questions except when uttered by Mr. McCourt, who when the passengers agreed, produced the ashes of his deceased Mother, whose remains he was bringing back to Ireland to bury. Bad taste...if you find yourself on a plane that may or may not make its destination, hope there is a man or woman aboard who has a sense of humor, who thinks of his fellow passengers.<br />A wonderful book that deserves much more attention.	2000-12-13
2178431:US	53047425	R1L27IY07SDZBH	0679731369	62087535	Flaubert's Parrot	Books	5	53	61	N	N	Nothing But Net	This is not the book that landed The Booker Prize for Mr. Barnes. I have read the novel that did win, \\"England, England\\", and I feel this is every bit as good. There are some familiar variants on phrases he has used before, and while not entirely new are not boringly repetitive. I also enjoyed the abrupt changes in point of view, a perspective change that altered the cadence of the novel.<br />Mr. Barnes has truly assembled this work as opposed to progressing from one chapter to the next. The first clever use of this is when you come upon a Chronology of Flaubert's life. Nothing-unusual here. However Mr. Julian Barnes is anything but another quick wit with a pen. So the reader is treated to 3 distinct Chronologies, the subject is essentially the same, however the only true commonality is on the date they end. The voice they are written in changes, and with this modification the mood as well.<br />We have a Narrator who loosely guides us through the tale, however a range of stylistic changes intrudes upon his narrative. Intrude is probably too strong a word for it all works, it all makes sense when placed in the complete context of the book. For one example, I cannot remember the last time I read a novel and found myself subjected to a test, complete with parameters, what is not acceptable regarding the form of answer, and finally a time limit. It did cause uncomfortable suppressed memories of literature exams, but the unpleasant moment is blessedly short. It will depend on how fond you were of written tests.<br />The Parrot is much more than a bird, and even when it does appear as an ornithologist would describe the creature, the number varies widely, as do the locations and clues to the one true bird. Throughout the balance of the book the word Parrot and the countless variations of language are not only extremely clever, they show the range of this man's grasp on language, his, and many others. This could have been a vacuous display of the use of a thesaurus, but Mr. Barnes does not use various words as decoration, he uses them because they are precisely what he needs.<br />There has only been one book that I would not recommend starting with, and that is \\"Metroland\\". This book is as good as any of the 6 or 7 I have read, and so far is one of the top 2. So start where you may, odds are this man's work will delight.Mr. Barnes does not use various words as decoration, he uses them because they are precisely what he needs.<br />There has only been one book that I would not recommend starting with, and that is \\"Metroland\\". This book is as good as any of the 6 or 7 I have read, and so far is one of the top 2. So start where you may, odds are this man's work will delight.	2000-12-12
2179553:US	53047425	R3NF8XLZNC3JEG	0679736093	859677839	Before She Met Me	Books	3	8	11	N	N	No One Escapes	I am well into reading a sixth book by Mr. Julian Barnes, so while I may have yet to complete his entire body of work, I do think I can say this is not only a dark exception to his writing, but contains topics that are deviant. Individual conduct may be more appropriate than topic, as the most bazaar behavior is reserved for one player. Others in this book are eccentric bordering on the repugnant, but no literary rules states we must like who we read about.<br />For example, if a writer/amateur psychologist, who revels in his flatulence can be endured, you will get through the book. There is no gray area with this particular character, no compromise, be amused, or be repelled, those are the options. There are many other minor players that all are people you would not miss meeting, however the main character will test your thresholds for the bizarre.<br />A man marries for the second time. He brings to this union his own history of relationships with women from earliest unfulfilled fantasies, to complete biblical knowledge of his female counterparts. Like her Husband, the Wife too brings her own life experiences both real, and the fictional, as her career as a \\"minor actress\\" occasioned the illusion of intimacy on the screen of silver.<br />As his curiosity of seeing an old film, becomes an obsession of repeated viewings, and videotaped collecting, the Husband departs reality, pauses for bizarre ritual, and finally plummets with finality.<br />The effort here is tolerating the sideshow freakish behavior that is repellent. If the reader can do so, the reward of this writer's skill is the only satisfaction you will have. This is certainly not a book I would recommend as an introduction to this man's work. If this were the first of his I came upon, it surely would have been the last. However once read in the context of his body of work, while divergent, annoying, and filled with players who may only gain your contempt, the effort is worth it.	2000-12-12
2179961:US	53047425	R19V1SQGBLU1O8	0812924029	516193414	Closed Chambers: The First Eyewitness Account of the Epic Struggles Inside the Supreme Court	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Closed Minds	The Supreme Court is supposed to be a place where the finest legal minds/scholars of the Constitution rule on the ultimate validity of a laws' application, a new laws' legitimacy, and whether or not it adheres to the Constitution that is meant to govern our nation. Like many grand institutions it can no longer be counted on to deliver blind justice to our Nation. As very public events of only 24 hours ago demonstrate, it is as partisan, and bi-polar as any other political forum. I am not suggesting this is a novelty with the current court, rather they have allowed themselves to deteriorate as a functioning unit, into the same fractured groups that are pleading their own self interested views of the law before them.<br />When I first read this book I was surprised by the conduct of many of the court members. I know this sounds naive, however I had held on to the idea that Justices appointed for life, men and woman who had risen as far as they ever could, would bring all their expertise, and over time leave some of their prejudices behind. I thought that the junior members of the Court would respect legal legends in this Country like Justice Thurgood Marshall and his peers. Not automatically defer to them, but not openly disdain them either.<br />Mr. Edward Lazarus is not the first to write on this topic, but he was inside the Court. If only a portion of the occurrences he describes took place, the court is as partisan as Congress.<br />The role that Law Clerks play, and the impact they can have are obscene. Regardless of their academic performance and the potential they may hold, that is still only what they are, very junior novices that lack the decades of experience of those they should be serving. Their influence on a decision should be nil. That the justices allow themselves to be influenced by efficient clerks is appalling.<br />This book is readable by the layperson, however those with a legal background will certainly gain more from it. It is also true that not every source is identified, but I do not believe much of this information would be shared on the record by anyone who planned to remain in his or her position in government. This allowance having been made, this book will inform you, and either confirm what you knew, or dishearten the reader. The last several days have made this book, and others like it, critically important.<br />As the recent continuing election has demonstrated beyond any dispute, candidates confuse their egos with The Nations' Best Interest. They place themselves before and above those they pretend they wish to serve. Their political careers are limited, but that is no defense for their infantile, selfish behavior.<br />The Justices of the Supreme Court have no term limit to use as an excuse or justification for their conduct; as they may hold their places until they are carried from the building as inert as the system they do not serve.t every source is identified, but I do not believe much of this information would be shared on the record by anyone who planned to remain in his or her position in government. This allowance having been made, this book will inform you, and either confirm what you knew, or dishearten the reader. The last several days have made this book, and others like it, critically important.<br />As the recent continuing election has demonstrated beyond any dispute, candidates confuse their egos with The Nations' Best Interest. They place themselves before and above those they pretend they wish to serve. Their political careers are limited, but that is no defense for their infantile, selfish behavior.<br />The Justices of the Supreme Court have no term limit to use as an excuse or justification for their conduct; as they may hold their places until they are carried from the building as inert as the system they do not serve.	2000-12-11
2181638:US	53047425	RLIMRB0I79VRO	0679736085	756407804	Metroland	Books	4	3	6	N	N	True, True, However, And True	True, the coming of age story has been written ad nauseum. It is also true the coming of age in the 1960's slant will also cause a reader to contemplate the feeling during the moment just prior to the aspiration of food particles. However it is also true that this version of the oft-told tale is the first offered to readers by Mr. Julian Barnes. And finally it is, or should be true, that whether or not an Author is the first or one thousand and first to pen his or her version of a familiar tale, it should be judged on it's merits, not graded upon its location in time relative to other familiar themes.<br />That's as far as I can go in defense of this particular work. I have read 5 novels by the Author, and this I enjoyed the least. However, Julian Barnes writes with a qualitative consistency superior to most novelists, that his weaker work can be so described is valid, only when placed in relation to other of his works.<br />The two young men we follow were just a bit too clever in their own estimation to be enjoyable. Their faith in change, which we expect to fail, rings true in the narrowest of confines, between only themselves. Their antics when younger quickly dissolve as time and their proximity to each other changes.<br />One of the young men has an encounter on a train with a more elderly gentleman, one who by definition of their teenage beliefs is deserving of only scorn. And while there is no epiphany at the moment of the exchange, the faith of all he believes are proved to be false, and further are proven to be in terminal health, he just isn't prepared to accept defeat.<br />The stars and my comments may be contradictory. The only defense I offer is that when this man writes, he is very good, and even this work has moments that are exceptional.<br />Not his best, but better than most that have gone before.	2000-12-10
2182355:US	53047425	RSVV0AIZ2M3IE	1852309121	50787363	Faith and Compassion: The Life and Work of Mother Teresa	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Without Distinction Of Cast And Creed	Mother Teresa was one of the most remarkable people to have lived, and the only source of hope and happiness for those she and the Sisters of her order cared for. She lived in the 20th Century so her work is known, her actions are fact. She is not subject to the passing of centuries and the romanticizing, and embellishing, that time and lack of knowledge allows.<br />She was an internationally powerful woman who lived among the poorest and powerless of people. She could summon help from heads of state with a phone call, lecture them on policies she believed were morally wrong when she was their guest, and then return to those no one else would help, touch, or even notice.<br />While most talk about what should be done she did what she believed was her responsibility every moment of her life. She cared for those who needed care unconditionally, and it is this that causes me to place her above the others. There was no we and they, no us and their, for her there were only people who needed care.<br />She was Catholic, I say so what. To categorize her with any confining label is to insult her and her life's work. She did not offer her care based upon religion, or a person's view of their God. She was criticized by The Roman Catholic Church for not converting those she helped, for not seeing that more of those that no one else cared about were baptized.<br />The dandified occupants of The Vatican whose custom tailored frocks would feed hundreds of people were concerned with what was and is of no value, they still pompously howl at the moon that their religion is the only true way. While they were offering a jeweled ring to be kissed, The Mother was caring for a Leper, or for one who was dying, for she believed no one should die alone.<br />One of my favorite stories...<br />One of her buildings was near a shrine, and the Monks wanted her and her inconvenient destitute patients evicted. They wanted nothing to do with leprosy, death, and reality. They brought the appropriate Magistrate to tell The Mother she would have to move. They entered the building and located The Mother tending to a patient. There was a pause, and the Magistrate announced that when the Monks were prepared to do her work, he would ask her to leave. At the time of the visit The Mother was using tweezers to remove live maggots from the face of a person brought in off the street. The fact that no Monk stepped forward is no surprise; the fact that eventually more than one of those same Monks died in her care is the most perfect of ironies, and a great tribute to this woman. Health and well-being bring arrogance. When death approached they sought The Mother's care. There was no doubt she would provide it, she was free from hypocrisy.<br />Mr. Navin Chawla has written eloquently about this wonder of a person before, and this time his words are complimented by the exceptional photography of Mr. Raghu Rai. There are many books about Mother Teresa, and even more that she wrote herself. If you buy only one, this volume gives you her words, the words of her biographer, and the pictures of a very talented photographer.<br />This woman was more important than a given named faith, she did not give her life to the helping of Catholics, she helped anyone who needed her WITHOUT DISTINCTION. She did not qualify her love, classify those deserving of her time, or impose her beliefs on those that needed her.<br />She represented and represents all that a human can be, and how absurd it is to label a given faith, or hold it above that of another. She transcended all religious boundaries, did so without distinction, and her actions were beyond any reproach.<br />She was a woman of faith who offered the world a reason to still believe that hope actually meant something, and unconditional love exists. If History is any indication we will learn little from her, from this gift that was given to all. We will continue to divide into groups, argue about theological minutiae to which there are no absolute truths. And we will continue to slaughter using religion as justification, whether we are the killers or the victims.<br />I hope I am wrong, I fear I am not.e no absolute truths. And we will continue to slaughter using religion as justification, whether we are the killers or the victims.<br />I hope I am wrong, I fear I am not.	2000-12-09
2183811:US	53047425	R3D5OPZBNJUM3F	1930541058	668445539	Side Effect	Books	4	6	7	N	N	So This Is What Happened In Florida	Author Sandra Feder has introduced herself to readers with a very good book, \\"Side Effect\\". If this first effort is any indication of how she will continue to develop as a writer, there are many very good books to come. The only reason for the lack of a fifth star is that I believe Authors get better with time.<br />Ms. Feder also brings a level of credibility to her story that many works of fiction lack. This book revolves around Pharmaceutical Science and is endorsed by the Chairman of this discipline at The University of Connecticut. Too many writers of fiction take such liberties with what is credible when set in contemporary time that their work lacks legitimacy. Research is skipped, and the expeditious glossing of subject matter is what the reader has dumped upon them. Many Authors should have their work transferred to Science Fiction, as the demands for accuracy in the genre are by definition what are congruent to the world the writer creates.<br />The story takes place over 9 days, and this serves to maintain a sense of urgency throughout the book. I remembered an episode of M.A.S.H. when a clock was placed in the bottom right hand corner throughout the episode. A life had a certain number of minutes to be preserved, and the clock raised the level of tension considerably.<br />Ms. Feder had a more difficult task here, and she handles it beautifully. There can be no clock, and the book will be read well before 9 days have past. So the tension is her writing, her dialogue, misdirection, and sleight of hand. Like Michael Dibdin's \\"Aurelio Zen\\" series she maintains the uncertainty until the very end. The last card is not shown until nearly the final page.<br />She does not use clich&eacute;s, people who pop back up after being thought dead, or the 100 other 3rd rate literary devices the bookshelves are packed with. There were other Authors who I was reminded of when reading this book. I choose not to mention them as readers might feel I exaggerate.<br />But I will say this; \\"Side Effect\\" is better than many marquee Author's works. The tale is better than many of the so-called \\"Masters Of This or That\\". This book will be the one you wish you had bought when she earns her place on The Bestseller Lists.<br />And as a bonus she brings two others players into the book that could have been oh so tired. However she handled them deftly. One aspect I felt was a bit over the top, but this story has a little boy you will enjoy, and a Dog that anyone would love to have. I really hope she brings these characters back; she has created some very special personalities.this; \\"Side Effect\\" is better than many marquee Author's works. The tale is better than many of the so-called \\"Masters Of This or That\\". This book will be the one you wish you had bought when she earns her place on The Bestseller Lists.<br />And as a bonus she brings two others players into the book that could have been oh so tired. However she handled them deftly. One aspect I felt was a bit over the top, but this story has a little boy you will enjoy, and a Dog that anyone would love to have. I really hope she brings these characters back; she has created some very special personalities.	2000-12-07
2186540:US	53047425	RGFAT1AZD0DTZ	0679744827	604682897	The Porcupine	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Mirror Image Show Trials	The elaborately choreographed show trials of Stalin are as well known, as they are infamous. There are few examples in History when one, malformed creature, both mentally and physically, could rule as a dictator for so long, and without challenge. Even Kirov cannot be considered more than a potential challenge, as the murdered do not compete. The number, who rules a Country that they were not born to, narrows the numbers further. Hitler did come from Austria, but in any measure of terror, killing, and longevity, he is not even close to Stalin.<br />In, \\"The Porcupine\\", by Julian Barnes, it is the tyrant that is on trial, not Stalin, for the country of this Dictator's origin is never mentioned. Much historical detail is used, and the quandary the Prosecution faces would have been the same if Stalin had ever been tried. Some of the circumstances that span from the beginning to the end of the book, in a manner of speaking, can be witnessed today. What was \\"The Evil Empire\\" when viewed from here, is a way of governed life that would still be welcomed back by large portions of not just Russia, but members of the former union as well. Life may not have been ideal, but if \\"the two words\\" have not made them better, why not go back?<br />Who charges the dictator, who can sit in judgement when those passing a verdict were a part of the machine themselves? Who is qualified to prosecute, what can the charges be, and what is the punishment to entail? Crimes Against Humanity as tried in Nuremberg, placed the defendants before those that had defeated them. The crimes were appalling, but even bringing that trial to the point of beginning was anything but certain, and certainly not with precedent.<br />Mr. Barnes pens a great Counter Factual bit of \\"what if?\\" History. That it has not happened as described does not detract from the fascination the idea provokes. The issue seems easy in theory, the outcome preordained. But wishing and wanting don't just make it so, or does it?	2000-12-05
2186885:US	53047425	R208DNVZ0E2O97	0679731377	62087535	A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A Sardonic, Original, And Mischievous Mind On A Tear	A stowaway that narrates the trip of Noah's Ark, simple animals tried for blasphemy in the 16th Century, an incredible stream of thought on language's three very famous words, all this, and more from an extremely original and perspective bending Author. This book is easily one of the more original works I have read in quite some time.<br />These collections of stories, and in one case a story within another, are all wonderful when confined within their own borders. They certainly were intended to be elements of a much more transcendent work, and when the reader finishes the parts, and becomes a ruminator of the whole, the effect is brilliant. Mr. Julian Barnes is a new Author for me, fortunately this book is not his debut so much remains to be read, and on his side, I hope, to be written.<br />A short time ago I read \\"Ghostwritten\\", a book that was divided into 9 tales that all had an element of commonality. I thought it was very well done. This work takes the joining of elements that could at times be superficially viewed as disparate, but are all of a singular piece when the entire book is read. The bridges that bring the reader and the elements of the books through the tale can seemingly be obvious. They are also incredibly well disguised. A cursory read through what may seem to be just a satirical romp will no doubt please, but attention paid with more vigor will yield a much more richly crafted work. And the added gift is that even when you think you have taken what the Author has offered, this work lingers, and the more and longer it is thought of, the better it continues to grow. This is a work that can easily be started again immediately after the final page is read.<br />Some would argue that for a work to be excellent it must be entirely original. I think that would be nice, and it does happen occasionally. Much more frequently what is offered has all the originality of a clone. Taking the familiar apart, changing the perspective, adding stylistically original and provocative thought, is as original as one can get. Generally accepted ideas or truths are not necessarily either. The ability to step back and present stand alone pieces that are fresh, that then become a symbiotic whole is a remarkable talent, and Mr. Barnes is incredibly inventive.<br />Show this man a Rubik's Cube with all of its colored sides intact. Then scramble the object and present him with the multi-colored curiosity. Not only will he place all the colors back so that each side is uniform, he will have changed all the colors as well.<br />Read this man's work, it's a wonderful trip.ginal and provocative thought, is as original as one can get. Generally accepted ideas or truths are not necessarily either. The ability to step back and present stand alone pieces that are fresh, that then become a symbiotic whole is a remarkable talent, and Mr. Barnes is incredibly inventive.<br />Show this man a Rubik's Cube with all of its colored sides intact. Then scramble the object and present him with the multi-colored curiosity. Not only will he place all the colors back so that each side is uniform, he will have changed all the colors as well.<br />Read this man's work, it's a wonderful trip.	2000-12-05
2187199:US	53047425	R3L6DW01TWYIZ9	0679736875	681832218	Talking It Over	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Ready To Be a Confidant	Prepared or not, while you still must read, what you read is almost entirely directed to you. You are told what has happened, what your new friends think, and what they are to do. Turn the page and then be told of the effect their actions were upon another of your new acquaintances. This book almost becomes interactive. If it were to be read to you, instead of by you, you would undoubtedly answer, interrupt and question them, and then yourself for talking to those who are not there. You would likely take sides, and wish you could conspire to help the party you favor.<br />The Author Julian Barnes places you in the midst of a triangle, albeit one with tangential appendages, and the story that transpires is only a bit less unusual than the form the book takes. The reader is expected to be the listener, provide a shoulder, and sometimes to refuse the proffered cigarette less neutrality is to be compromised. The menagerie Mr. Barnes provides as your newfound pals, range from the mundane, to the brilliantly eccentric, and when brought together form an eclectic group. The cameos played by the briefest of speakers often come under the heading \\"He/she lies like an eyewitness\\". All believe they speak the truth, but truth is relative, perspective is everything.<br />Mr. Barnes is egalitarian as you are chosen to lend your sympathetic ear to men, women, the young and the not so young. He also offers the occasional insight from a player whose appearance doesn't even rate that of a cameo, florists as psychologists.<br />He also takes the most familiar range of human emotion and demonstrates with an ease that is a bit disconcerting, how double edged and painful they can be, This is true whether he cuts a swath with a broadsword, or slips a stiletto from the hand of one friend to the vitals of another.<br />Triangles are used to describe the actions between 3 individuals. Mr. Barnes uses the same shape, but the complexity of his writing requires more than one. A pyramid might result, at once the most stable of shapes, and repeatedly pointed as well.<br />A wonderful commentator on the human condition.lt, at once the most stable of shapes, and repeatedly pointed as well.<br />A wonderful commentator on the human condition.	2000-12-05
2192675:US	53047425	R2X3593US28N1K	042516862X	954832518	Star Wars, Dark Forces: Rebel Agent (Book 2)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Out Of Step	It has been years since I originally read this series, this particular episode, \\"Rebel Agent\\", is the second in a three-part cycle. This trilogy is based upon the role-playing games and I believe some of the video experiences. However they are out of synch with the rest of \\"Star Wars\\", and this is an issue.<br />Previously I have commented on how seamlessly the books that now approach 200 in number have fit together, how all were worth the reading time, for bits and pieces of history were to be gleaned from their review. This particular cycle offered full-page paintings by a noted artist of the Science Fiction Genre, and while some readers would have preferred their mind's eye, I think they are good, if inconsistent. Specifically the image that is supposed to portray Princess Leia looks like her less than attractive sister. There is no sister, and there should not have been this image.<br />At 128 pages in length, backtracking the story as if the reader decided to start in the middle is simply wrong. Star Wars readers tend to read everything, and if the story is weak, or too brief, then perhaps there should be a different story.<br />Characters like Boba Fett have developed their personalities over the decades, and the version of Fett in this book reads as though the writer never read a word about this character before. Fett sounds like a bad lounge act. Fett actually sounds like someone else dressed in the Mandalorian Armor. This caricature speaks more in this book, than in a dozen other novels, and trite is being kind as to the dialogue.<br />If someone were to start with this series after viewing the movies, they would be correct in feeling lost. These books populate the galaxy with Dark Side Jedi at every turn. They must have been hiding in the movies.<br />There is one interesting bit as to Yoda's history, and it may sound strange to some, but if you are as addicted to this world of George Lucas as I am, it nearly justifies the balance.	2000-11-30
2196318:US	53047425	R1EH2A0SN1NPV0	0860686116	833435079	Liza's England	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Familiarity Breeds Contempt	I have read 5 books by Ms. Barker recently. Reading a number of works in succession by a writer that is new to me is a frequent event. There was a recurring problem within what could have been a very good book that made this the weakest book of Ms. Barker's I have read. In fairness, had I read this first, my opinion would have been different, but then her later books would have suffered the same repeated flaw.<br />The story began with a charming premise, a young male social worker, meets an 84 year old woman who must be moved from her home, where she has experienced the greater part of her life. She is virtually the last occupant in this neighborhood of memories and wraiths. Her memories are all she has left of what has been a long and painful life. Her sole companion is an eccentric Parrot, which again could have been an interesting facet/a nice aside to the story. The social worker Stephen is characterized as being gay, unlike the World War I trilogy when a main character's lifestyle was a central part of the story, a character trait that was a large part of what defined him, in this book it was meaningless. If it had merit it was far too subtle for me to grasp.<br />The book's failing is that many stories within the book, or metaphors that are memorable, not only appeared here, they also appeared verbatim in the other books I had read, or were so slightly changed as to be nearly indistinguishable. World War I experiences are related here and then in the trilogy, metaphors that are memorable, again appear here and again in the trilogy. It does not happen once or even 5 times, but many times. The result is this reader kept thinking about the other books I had given such high marks to, but I now know I was reading recycled ideas from an earlier work.<br />The exposition of Liza's life, and the shifting back and forth to present day, and the life that is Stephen's is clumsy at best. Far from being seamless, they are incongruous, jarring, and prevent any sort of cadence from developing for the reader.<br />Stephen's relationship with Liza pretended to be the Grandmother to this young man who had come into her life to serve bad news, but became someone she was fond of in spite of the change he represented, as Grandmothers tend to do. However, the end of the book while not predictable, makes a mockery of all that has gone before, destroys the structure of what had been written, and is so out of character with the balance of the book as to be absurd. The actual event will leave you with strong feelings about many people and issues, but none that would bring you back to Ms. Barker's work, were this the first you had read.<br />This is book number 5 for me, and the first 4 I still enthusiastically recommend.<br />On this one, pass.nce from developing for the reader.<br />Stephen's relationship with Liza pretended to be the Grandmother to this young man who had come into her life to serve bad news, but became someone she was fond of in spite of the change he represented, as Grandmothers tend to do. However, the end of the book while not predictable, makes a mockery of all that has gone before, destroys the structure of what had been written, and is so out of character with the balance of the book as to be absurd. The actual event will leave you with strong feelings about many people and issues, but none that would bring you back to Ms. Barker's work, were this the first you had read.<br />This is book number 5 for me, and the first 4 I still enthusiastically recommend.<br />On this one, pass.	2000-11-27
2197120:US	53047425	R25YWQ924PZ2B5	0439139309	944932660	Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice #11: The Deadly Hunter	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Might Give Fett Pause	The \\"bad\\" characters often seem to become very popular, whether for their appearance, or for their infinite array of gadgets. This has been the case in the past with Darth Vader, Boba Fett, and in the early days of Talon Karrde and Mara Jade. Another issue has also been the lack of \\"female\\" players in the Star Wars Universe. This book solves both issues.<br />A Female Bounty Hunter makes her appearance, or several appearances in this episode, and she appears to be nearly as capable as the formidable Boba Fett. This unnamed adversary has tricks that Fett cannot manage, and while we learn her species, we learn little else, other than the array of tricks, and deceptions of which she is capable. In a way she is even nastier than Fett, He keeps his actions to his quarry, while this Hunter seems pleased to engage as many adversaries as she can. The more the better.<br />The messages being sent to younger readers are still for the most part positive. Aggression is a last resort even when dealing with formidable foes, and setting reasonable goals for oneself, and not judging yourself too harshly are taught well. The violence is still fairly mild, but is a bit more than previous episodes.<br />The downside of this book is that it barely rates a book. Star Wars readers of all ages rarely complain that a book is too long, but even the youngest of readers will find this story annoyingly short. There are still many years that this series could cover; there is no shortage of material for as many books as George Lucas chooses to publish. However this book is a low point for what young readers get for their money, and if any reading group deserves more, it is the newest fans of Star Wars. Young readers don't read less, and they should be encouraged to read as much as possible.<br />The ending goes beyond a cliff hangar and becomes just an abrupt halt. Only stopping in mid-sentence would have made it worse. So to George Lucas, Jude Watson, and anyone else who makes the decisions, it was the Grinch who was the stingy one, and even he lightened up. So give the readers more rather than less, they have supported this series, and readers in general are who provide a demand for all the Star Wars Books.was the Grinch who was the stingy one, and even he lightened up. So give the readers more rather than less, they have supported this series, and readers in general are who provide a demand for all the Star Wars Books.	2000-11-27
2199671:US	53047425	R1HB8JVSUQ55KY	0452276721	129425029	The Ghost Road (William Abrahams)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The End	This was a people perishing from the absence of war.<br />\\"The Ghost Road\\" ends the 3-book cycle written by Pat Barker of her study of World War I, the men who were part of history in the form of Dr. Rivers and Siegfried Sassoon, and some fictional like William Prior. This also marks the book that added The Booker Prize to her list of achievements. This work differs from the first 2 as a good portion consists of the flashbacks of Dr. Rivers. These are experienced while he is suffering from Influenza, and the fever induced memories the illness recalls.<br />No one comment can summarize his experiences as an Anthropologist living among a tribe that he studied, but the one I mention above does justice, if incomplete. This is an anti war trilogy of books, so to find one of the main players reliving his past while tortured by his present, witnessing his society's destruction by war, as another was destroyed from the lack of it, is interesting counterpoint to say the least.<br />Like the second volume, Billy Prior lays a prominent role in this final installment as well. He remains an interesting character, but his obsessions, which at time are in conflict, became a bit tiresome. His personal life that once offered a continually more complex and disturbed man began to be repetitive.<br />Ms. Barker brings her work to a close as late as the 3rd of November in Prior's journal, and implies some of what is read is even later. By resolving some lives, and leaving others to continue to deal with the madness they will never escape, and doing this in the last week of the war, is acutely cruel. It is also appropriate as when the fighting ended on the 11th day of the 11th month at 11 in the morning, the weapons may have stopped, but the damage had only begun.<br />The War did not end for those who survived, and a second war was to appear in the lifetime of many of those we met. And perhaps that was one of the points she wished to make, nothing was accomplished, millions died, countless numbers who lived were permanently damaged. And the final Treaty Of Versailles ensured it would all happen once again.<br />Dr. Rivers helped men only to send them back to the cause of their terror. Other soldiers returned to the front to meet what fate had to offer. But futility was the result, for what did Dr. Rivers have to show that he was productive, that he as a Doctor had healed? And how did the patients that were in his charge benefit from his care and the decisions that followed from it.<br />A tremendous piece of writing.ess numbers who lived were permanently damaged. And the final Treaty Of Versailles ensured it would all happen once again.<br />Dr. Rivers helped men only to send them back to the cause of their terror. Other soldiers returned to the front to meet what fate had to offer. But futility was the result, for what did Dr. Rivers have to show that he was productive, that he as a Doctor had healed? And how did the patients that were in his charge benefit from his care and the decisions that followed from it.<br />A tremendous piece of writing.	2000-11-24
2199743:US	53047425	R2AAJB9HSL4794	0743212576	23410205	The Immaculate Deception	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Thanks to The Fingerpost	Mr. Pears authored the brilliant work, \\"An Instance At The Fingerpost\\". His newest work, \\"The Immaculate Deception\\", is his first since writing that novel, which elevated him as an Author, and greatly expanded his audience. This book is the latest of his series that feature Jonathan, Flavia, and the balance of the Art Theft Squad, and I enjoyed it more than any other episode. His skills from Fingerpost are evident here, and the briefer work is the beneficiary.<br />This ongoing storyline is light fare if compared to Fingerpost, but a comparison would be without merit, for these are a group of novellas and not a singular expansive work. This addition to the series is much stronger than previous works. The dialogue is sharper, the wit more clever, and most importantly, more original. Like Michael Dibdin who Authors the Aurelio Zen series, Mr. Pears sustained the tension throughout the work. The plot twists were well placed, and benefited from the 40 plus years the story uses to unwind itself.<br />This book is clearly the last, as we have known the series, Mr. Pears seems to be making irrevocable changes, but future works will branch from this work, and the potential for further originality of plot without the loss of the familiar, is clearly their for Mr. Pears to create. I thought his handling of the adjustment to the series was particularly well managed. He did not resort to melodrama, rather he begins a transition that is logical, untainted by literary clich&eacute;, and will give new life to a series that has steadily improved.<br />Good reading, good fun, enjoy.	2000-11-24
2201282:US	53047425	RSFLNA0UBT4M1	0452272726	296956896	The Eye in the Door	Books	5	46	48	N	N	a strip of empathic wallpaper	If \\"Regeneration\\" were to be considered the story of Dr. Rivers and his patient Siegfried Sassoon, \\"The Eye In The Door\\" might be said to be the story of the same doctor and another patient, Mr. Billy Prior. I also would say that the opening comment is an oversimplification. The first two volumes of this trilogy are amazingly rich in detail and personality, and part three, \\"The Ghost Road\\", is proving to be no different.<br />The title of this review is a quote expressed by Prior early in his treatment with Dr. Rivers. It describes a fictional character, but it also demonstrates Pat Barker's brilliant use of words. She has the ability to transform a clich&eacute;, to make it fresh, her own, as when she speaks through a female character, \\"In her world, men loved women as the fox loves the hare. And women loved men as the tapeworm loves the gut.\\" A bit more thought provoking than, men are from Mars, women from Venus.<br />Mr. Prior becomes an amalgam for many, and perhaps most of the issues the first two books explore. He also through his complex of issues, greatly affects Dr. Rivers. The Doctor cannot maintain complete detachment; one scene even has them switching roles, with Prior drilling into the painful childhood of his advisor. The relationship between Rivers and Prior becomes so psychologically intense, the doctor finds himself dreaming the nightmares \\"of others\\". He starts to identify with a critical event that may have damaged Prior as a child. The timing and location of their respective young fears is amazingly similar.<br />Ms. Barker seems to use the doctor as a metaphor for his patients and their collective experiences. Prior has more going on within his world than anyone could be expected to cope with and remain sane. Prior exists in many states, almost all of which are in impossible contradiction. His mental state eventually reaches a point where his mind makes a severe adjustment in an attempt to cope. With him Ms. Barker has created one of the more complex characters in fiction.<br />Prior is a decorated soldier who returns to the War four times. Prior is a man whose childhood friends are pacifists. He meets with several and contrary to his duty as a soldier does not turn them in. He tries to have one objector released from jail, the justification is perjured testimony, the truth is quite different.<br />This installment takes place during the trial when Lord Alfred Douglas made his famous statement in court, that Robert Ross a friend of Oscar Wilde, was \\"the leader of all the sodomites in London\\". This too was the time of the black book with 47,000 names of \\"degenerates\\" that were \\"causing\\" the War to turn against England.<br />In the midst of all of this, Prior is working for the Government, he is a soldier, he empathizes with pacifist friends, helping them while denouncing their philosophy. He is a bisexual male who also is engaged to marry. His relationships with men do not abate when he decides to wed. He has been wounded and sent back to fight, he has been treated for shellshock and has been sent back to fight, and he is an asthmatic who is sent to fight in the gas of Flanders, twice.<br />This is one patient amongst many Dr. Rivers has and continues to treat. He has begun to suffer in ways that were once the purview of his patients. His feelings about the War do not change; at least he believes they do not. And guilt becomes a catalyst for his own terrors and nightmares.<br />And to make sure the reader is kept working, Ms. Barker brings back Siegfried Sassoon, a new version of him perhaps, but extremely interesting as well.<br />The small number of reviews surprised me for so acclaimed a work. My thought is that some material, while important to the story, is just too graphic for some readers. Ms. Barker holds nothing back when describing the horror of War, so it would have been inconsistent to back off on issues or actions that are potentially contentious for some. As I said in my review of the first book, I make no judgment on the subjects or readers. I believe the writer wanted to bring the full force of all aspects of her work to the reader, and for that I believe her courage is to be admired. She does not vary the intensity to the sensibilities of what may be an issue for some, she writes her books, as she needs to tell her story, she is a gutsy lady.I make no judgment on the subjects or readers. I believe the writer wanted to bring the full force of all aspects of her work to the reader, and for that I believe her courage is to be admired. She does not vary the intensity to the sensibilities of what may be an issue for some, she writes her books, as she needs to tell her story, she is a gutsy lady.	2000-11-22
2201618:US	53047425	R1HZWEAJB9FTO3	0452270073	779881568	Regeneration	Books	5	55	61	N	N	You must speak	\\"You must speak, but I shall not listen to anything you say.\\"<br />A Doctor who is engaged in helping a World War I Soldier to regain his speech makes this statement. For anyone who has read of this war, you may agree it was a particularly gruesome event, abetted by the latest in weaponry. This Doctor who is supposed to heal, has the medical ethics of a Mengele. \\"Regeneration\\" by Pat Barker is the first of three acts, that examine War, its advocates, the objectors, and groups that society continues to marginalize to this day. This book is a brutal assault; it offers no respite, no quarter to the reader. Some have compared her writing of War to Hemingway, a comparison to Erich Maria Remarque may startle some, but this woman's grasp of the war is remarkable. All three parts of the trilogy were honored with awards, the final volume with The Booker Prize.<br />Many of the players, locations, and events in this work actually exist or transpired. Part of the intensity of the writing derives from the impact only true history can make. The balance of the impact is due to Ms. Barker, and her skill of creating the sense of an epic in a scant 250+pages. There are no innocents in this book; guilt is another emotional commodity that prevails.<br />I don't know that philosophically a pro war book could be credible. Such a book could be written, and few will argue that conflict at times is inevitable, if only because it is part of our nature. What Pat Barker does is to bring back the horror of war without sanitizing or sensationalizing the events.<br />We no longer fight wars like the one that brought us Versailles. The barbaric behavior continues, but the exposure it gets to the public is measured. Death in combat has not changed. However if CNN were in the trenches I believe World War I would have been shortened. The infrared bombing that is more akin to a video game when watched does not have the impact of a soldier removing pieces of a friend from his gasmask.<br />Ms. Barker also writes about a variety of other social events/practices that are as contentious today as nearly a century ago. She examines the need for scapegoats when the truth is unpleasant. This ranges in her work from a German bred dog that is disemboweled for sport, to the issue of those who object to serve, and those that do, but under the double life of what we have named, don't ask and don't tell.<br />I have nearly completed the second volume, \\"The Eye In The Door\\", and I can say without hesitation, that if the discussion or graphic description of the subjects I have mentioned are not what you choose to read, pass these works by. If you can put her writing into context, and read through pages that will make some readers very uncomfortable, this is a phenomenal written work. I use the word uncomfortable not as a judgment on topics, individual's choices, or reader's personal views, rather only as an adjective that may apply to how some may feel.<br />I don't know how these grounds can be covered without discomfort. The writer chooses the degree to which detail is used. Whether it is appropriate or not, is an individual decision.also writes about a variety of other social events/practices that are as contentious today as nearly a century ago. She examines the need for scapegoats when the truth is unpleasant. This ranges in her work from a German bred dog that is disemboweled for sport, to the issue of those who object to serve, and those that do, but under the double life of what we have named, don't ask and don't tell.<br />I have nearly completed the second volume, \\"The Eye In The Door\\", and I can say without hesitation, that if the discussion or graphic description of the subjects I have mentioned are not what you choose to read, pass these works by. If you can put her writing into context, and read through pages that will make some readers very uncomfortable, this is a phenomenal written work. I use the word uncomfortable not as a judgment on topics, individual's choices, or reader's personal views, rather only as an adjective that may apply to how some may feel.<br />I don't know how these grounds can be covered without discomfort. The writer chooses the degree to which detail is used. Whether it is appropriate or not, is an individual decision.	2000-11-22
2204147:US	53047425	R10O5IXGL7AMT2	0743204123	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed And The American Boom	Books	5	73	82	N	N	One Very Good Reason NOT To Be The Next President	I thought it was never going to happen after reading a series of books about Alan Greenspan and The Federal Reserve. Prior books seemed to have had as their goal convincing any reader that a PHD in Pure Math was required to understand The Federal Reserve. Those who felt readers needed to have the English Language explained to them authored a book I recently reviewed. Just as I believe there are literally millions of Americans who have learned more about The Electoral College in the last 10 days than they did during how ever many years of school they attended, anyone who reads this book will find that The Federal Reserve while far from a simple agency performing simple tasks, it is understandable to anyone who has an interest in learning.<br />Mr. Bob Woodward has assembled a highly readable book, together with a brief index of terms, which makes this work invaluable. This would be so at any point in our History. But as we now have more Families and individuals whose finances are directly related to the financial markets, the book is important for everyone to read.<br />During the campaigns the voters are warned/scared into thinking of the evil that will befall them if a given Candidate becomes President, and appoints Supreme Court Justices. The congress that will assemble in January is so balanced, especially the Senate, that no matter who eventually wins, what was an election and now is a disgrace, is not going to get any judges confirmed that are at either end of Constitutional Interpretation.<br />But what of The Chairman Of The Federal Reserve? Mr. Greenspan is currently in the midst of a remarkable 4th term as Chairman, and many would argue a Chairman whose performance has been unprecedented. At 74 years of age how much longer will he want this position? He comments that having the job \\"is like eating peanuts\\" in that a person cannot stop, and I hope he does not. However I don't believe immortality is amongst his skills, and whoever is President when he ceases to be The Chairman, is going to have a huge problem.<br />Mr. Woodward explains why this is so by using some of the very public, and some not so public events/crises that any reader will have knowledge of, if not all, then some of the events he describes. October 1987 is familiar, it also moved into the background rather quickly for such an event. This book will rewrite those days of 1987, and explain just how close to a true financial disaster it was. After you read what went on to restore the markets, you will be pleased that firstly, you didn't know how bad it really was, and secondly, that Mr. Greenspan was at the helm.<br />Other events that are reviewed are, Mexico's idea of running an economy, and the US Bankers that lent your money to the Country, and how that situation was delicately finessed. The LTCM near disaster, while perhaps not as familiar to some, lays bare the wonderful world of arbitrage. For it is here that 5 cents gets you a dollar, winning is spectacular, and the consequences of losing are almost difficult to fathom. If you count stocks as a form of gambling, arbitrage make stocks look as safe as keeping the money in your mattress.<br />The book is full of actual transcriptions of various Federal Reserve meetings. This brings the reader into the room as a witness to a Chairman who not only clearly understands the economy better than anyone, but who is also a master politician and consensus builder. Universally liked he is not, as several Vice Chairman learned. The Federal Reserve has become Mr. Alan Greenspan, and since he was first appointed by President Reagan, then President Bush, and finally President Clinton, you will learn why.<br />I found his relationships with the Presidents he served to be fascinating, and I was surprised by the President he felt best understood the economy. The material if accepted by the reader may cause one to reevaluate some long held beliefs about a variety of powerful Washington figures.<br />This book works asBob Woodward is as knowledgeable about Washington D.C., and has access to the players that is possibly without peer. He has earned the credibility he brings to his work over decades of writing, and the meticulous notes he includes give even more validation to the reader who requires it.<br />A book for all to read, for when was the last time a specific Supreme Court case directly and immediately affected your life? When was the last time The Chairman of The Federal Reserve changed your net worth with 2 words?<br />Remember \\"Irrational Exuberance\\"?Bob Woodward is as knowledgeable about Washington D.C., and has access to the players that is possibly without peer. He has earned the credibility he brings to his work over decades of writing, and the meticulous notes he includes give even more validation to the reader who requires it.<br />A book for all to read, for when was the last time a specific Supreme Court case directly and immediately affected your life? When was the last time The Chairman of The Federal Reserve changed your net worth with 2 words?<br />Remember \\"Irrational Exuberance\\"?	2000-11-20
2204800:US	53047425	R1MGKPGNWNRBR6	0312203977	453372686	Another World: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Apple white it says on the tin. Alzheimer white.	Pat Barker is yet another tremendous discovery for this reader. Added to my introduction to Penelope Fitzgerald several months ago, 2000 has been a great year.<br />The accolades she has earned include, The Guardian Fiction Prize, and the highest award in Great Britain, The Booker Prize, for the final installment of her trilogy, \\"The Ghost Road\\". I have begun the first book of the three, \\"Regeneration\\", and I look forward to finding the words to express how remarkable a work it is.<br />\\"Another World\\" is a tremendous piece of writing containing complex characters, multiple plot lines that are distinct but not independent, and primary players that are uniformly disliked with ease. Secondary players don't quite rise above dysfunctional, save perhaps the very youngest in this tale.<br />The initial stage of the book seems a bit slow, however it still communicates the misery that will underlie the book. And when the writer introduces, or perhaps allows the cover to be taken from past terror, the pace indeed was never slow. Ms. Parker just lulls the reader into a false sense of security. Comfort may be a better word, for it is a rare book that truly disturbs a reader, I suggest this is just such a book.<br />The truth of what happened in this story is never completely clear. Reasonable conclusions can be drawn, and careful attention to detail makes all the difference. However much of the time A truth, as opposed to The truth, is what we are offered.<br />A 101-year-old man, a veteran of World War I and all the horror that entails complains of a scar and the pain it inflicts. The problem is he chooses the scar that is 80 years old, and not the days old incision that physically is the site that should cause the pain. A Grandson who tends to this man, who wants to know what personal horror tortures the old man, the horror that pains him more than his failing health. Eventually some information is shared, but I don't believe it is The information.<br />The Grandson has his own Family, most charitably called eclectic, as each parent has brought children from a first marriage, and a life they have created is en route. When the cover I mentioned earlier invades this family, they face an obscene result, a visual dementia, which immediately threatens them. And this initial shock is only the beginning.<br />An act of violence from the past that can be argued as humane is followed by the most nightmarish atrocity. The past does not repeat, or has the outcome just been delayed? I had written of another novel \\"she did not hand this one to you\\". I feel the comment here is equally valid. The Writer does bring closure to some issues, she leaves at least on event suspended, not ambiguous, but specifically left in abeyance. I don't know what her intent is, but this issue, combined with one other that can easily be missed by the reader, and perhaps the key players in the book, would make for a great continuation if Ms. Barker chose.<br />I really look forward to the balance of this lady's work. Her work is sophisticated, clever, and the major events that shock, hide much deeper, and darker issues. I may be wrong, if I am, then the book is probably better than I believe it to be.own Family, most charitably called eclectic, as each parent has brought children from a first marriage, and a life they have created is en route. When the cover I mentioned earlier invades this family, they face an obscene result, a visual dementia, which immediately threatens them. And this initial shock is only the beginning.<br />An act of violence from the past that can be argued as humane is followed by the most nightmarish atrocity. The past does not repeat, or has the outcome just been delayed? I had written of another novel \\"she did not hand this one to you\\". I feel the comment here is equally valid. The Writer does bring closure to some issues, she leaves at least on event suspended, not ambiguous, but specifically left in abeyance. I don't know what her intent is, but this issue, combined with one other that can easily be missed by the reader, and perhaps the key players in the book, would make for a great continuation if Ms. Barker chose.<br />I really look forward to the balance of this lady's work. Her work is sophisticated, clever, and the major events that shock, hide much deeper, and darker issues. I may be wrong, if I am, then the book is probably better than I believe it to be.	2000-11-20
2207016:US	53047425	RXHLCQO0BCKEY	0071349197	495433747	The Greenspan Effect: Words That Move the World's Markets	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Reinforcing a problem	One of the problems that our next President does not want to face is the resignation, or the removal from the Federal Reserve Chairmanship by Mr. Greenspan. As I write we still have no President, thankfully we do have Mr. Greenspan.<br />For those readers who follow or invest in the markets, you all are acutely aware of the power this man wields, 2 words can literally have an impact on markets measured in the hundreds of billions of dollars. Who will forget \\"irrational exuberance\\"? Those words were not even a declaration, but part of a rhetorical comment, and terror still ensued.<br />Contrary to what often is reported, Mr. Greenspan speaks English. However the word parse has become connected with any statement he makes. So the routine is, Mr. Greenspan speaks, and I truly believe the vast majority understand him, but like any event the press and their \\"experts\\" take apart every word, whether his brow is wrinkled, and essentially try to graph each appearance and comment to find the \\"true meaning\\". I have always found this annoying and condescending. People who are sophisticated enough to manage their money, can manage to understand our Fed Chairman.<br />I made it through this book, but I would not recommend you bother. There is a new book about the man I am reading, and so far it is excellent. This work reinforces the idea that experts need to break down every word, and then explain what Mr. Greenspan means. There are no great insights offered, nothing is simplified, you will learn virtually nothing about the workings of The Federal Reserve, and if you feel comfortable listening to the Chairman now, this book will only make you question whether you should.<br />If you are looking for the opinions of these Authors, if you want to follow a needlessly complex maze of an attempt to find a pattern to everything the man has said, this is for you. As I said, Mr. Greenspan speaks English, and were it not for the emphasis placed on pairings of words out of context, and the emotions they generate, people would understand we have a brilliant Fed Chairman, who at times chooses to be vague, and at times cannot give definitive answers about the future, who can.<br />He has been a remarkable Chairman, appointed and reappointed by 3 presidents from both parties. Now you can take that statement at face value, or have the talking heads dissect it for you. The answer is the same either way, and the time you save listening to what you hear, and skipping the experts, is time better spent on anything else.emotions they generate, people would understand we have a brilliant Fed Chairman, who at times chooses to be vague, and at times cannot give definitive answers about the future, who can.<br />He has been a remarkable Chairman, appointed and reappointed by 3 presidents from both parties. Now you can take that statement at face value, or have the talking heads dissect it for you. The answer is the same either way, and the time you save listening to what you hear, and skipping the experts, is time better spent on anything else.	2000-11-17
2207288:US	53047425	R5BKGZWJ512KC	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	5	70	87	N	N	A Variant On A Tale Thats Eternally Valid	Referring to this novella, as a variant is in no way meant to detract from the work, or suggest that it is lacking in originality. The two other works Steinbeck's book \\"The Pearl\\" is sometimes linked to, add to the reading experience, and reinforce the transcendence of its message.<br />\\"The Pearl Of Great Price\\" from a parable in the Gospel of Matthew, attempts to teach with the same jewel from the sea. Mr. Steinbeck was also a great reader of medieval texts, and one of these morality plays was in the form of a poem written in the 14th Century, entitled \\"Pearl\\" although the Author is unknown. These three works are separated by millennia, but their commentary on the human condition is consistent.<br />Mr. Steinbeck wrote this after his triumph \\"The Grapes Of Wrath\\". The work was a monumental bestseller, it brought The Pulitzer Prize to the Author, and was rapidly made into a movie that is a classic in it's own right. Superficially one could argue Mr. Steinbeck achieved all that a writer might conceivably want, fame, fortune, and critical recognition.<br />Unfortunately, like his work, often when you feel something good is about to happen, a positive change for his characters that have struggled, and fought to survive, he slams you face down on bedrock's reality. The acclaim for his work brought him great discomfort as well. He was labeled a socialist, a communist, an agitator, and became the focus of FBI attention, and not because they liked his book. He viewed and detested the treatment the racism toward Mexicans in Southern California, and witnessed the so-called \\"Zoot Suit Riots\\" that resulted.<br />\\"The Pearl\\" might be called the lottery if it was written today. The ticket that vaults a person from the troubles of day-to-day life, and is thought to leave them \\"set for life\\" all too often is a quick financial ride up and a crash back down.<br />Sudden wealth when thrust upon a person, changes the person, and everyone around them. All their reference points, their friends, and all that their lives have not prepared them for, surround, threaten, and many times destroy them.<br />This book is very brief, but it communicates as much as a novel 10 times its length. The ending is brilliant, tragic, and redemptive. It is a story that few could write, and even fewer could make work. The emotional scenes he brings the reader to are at times almost violent in there reading. And then with a turn of phrase he can change the mood time and time again.<br />A wonderful novella from an Author known for sweeping sagas.friends, and all that their lives have not prepared them for, surround, threaten, and many times destroy them.<br />This book is very brief, but it communicates as much as a novel 10 times its length. The ending is brilliant, tragic, and redemptive. It is a story that few could write, and even fewer could make work. The emotional scenes he brings the reader to are at times almost violent in there reading. And then with a turn of phrase he can change the mood time and time again.<br />A wonderful novella from an Author known for sweeping sagas.	2000-11-17
2207711:US	53047425	R2YR13O4MMZX33	0767903501	671795868	Beethoven's Hair: An Extraordinary Historical Odyssey and a Scientific Mystery Solved	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Oh, it would be so lovely to live a thousand lives.	The quote is from Ludwig Van Beethoven, which was a part of a letter to Franz Wegeler.<br />Mr. Russell Martin has crafted a beautiful piece of work that is much more complex than it initially appears. The difference between writing a book on a subject this narrowly defined and having it succeed, and producing nothing more than a mind numbing recitation of facts, is extremely fine. In this case the Author did a brilliant job. My only wish is that a few photographs were included, as they would have added to the work. This criticism is very minor, and the book is outstanding.<br />To have written as narrowly on a subject as suggested by the title would have never merited a book. Mr. Russell gently sways the time frame from the current year, and then as far back as Beethoven's years as a child, and the transitions are seamless. He builds the book in layers, Beethoven's life, illnesses, loves, and his introduction to Mozart. He narrates the custom of taking a lock of hair as a memento, in this case Beethoven's, from days after the great man's death, to the most sophisticated forensic examinations currently available. He writes of the men who purchased the relic, the passion that catalyzed their purchase, and all that resulted from it.<br />All of this joyfully fascinates, until the great mystery of the hand off of the relic to a Doctor, who risked his life saving Jews from the Nazis darkly enters the story. And it is here the Author transforms the book from a documentation of a historical curiosity, to an important work, by including the remarkable events in Gilleleje Denmark.<br />The events that surrounded the relics' travels all illustrate the veneration this man and his music have had, and will continue to have for as long as we have a future. His music was played for the amusement of concentration camp staff, the vermin that were Hitler's creatures. The hideous ironies of the music being played by those that were condemned to die. Can you imagine a scene where a group that knows death is their only future plays a requiem, a requiem that literally is to be theirs? I cannot.<br />His most recognizable symphonic opening was used by the allies because of what it translated into, using...but that would be a spoiler.<br />The quote that begins these comments is probably the greatest irony of all. When you read of how ill this man was, the decades of pain and barely imaginable discomfort, the deafness many know of seems minor by comparison. The contemporary part of this tale puts myths about his death to rest, provides evidence of what may have been responsible for the misery that was his \\"health\\", and ponders what did his horrendous health have to do with what he wrote.<br />The premise of the book does not indicate just how much lies within. It is a biography of a man, of musical and human history, and of scientific marvels. It is the examination of why this man's music resonates uniquely to this day.<br />I cannot think of any reader who would not enjoy this work.oup that knows death is their only future plays a requiem, a requiem that literally is to be theirs? I cannot.<br />His most recognizable symphonic opening was used by the allies because of what it translated into, using...but that would be a spoiler.<br />The quote that begins these comments is probably the greatest irony of all. When you read of how ill this man was, the decades of pain and barely imaginable discomfort, the deafness many know of seems minor by comparison. The contemporary part of this tale puts myths about his death to rest, provides evidence of what may have been responsible for the misery that was his \\"health\\", and ponders what did his horrendous health have to do with what he wrote.<br />The premise of the book does not indicate just how much lies within. It is a biography of a man, of musical and human history, and of scientific marvels. It is the examination of why this man's music resonates uniquely to this day.<br />I cannot think of any reader who would not enjoy this work.	2000-11-17
2212138:US	53047425	R2CRF87A1665X3	0553572938	114540105	Children of the Jedi (Star Wars)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Legacies Of Palpitine	His clones were destroyed, the second Death Star briefly became his crypt, and then vaporized, and still Palpitine and who and what he has left behind, continue to threaten. The Empire may have taken a beating with the loss of the second Death Star together with the loss of their Emperor and his apprentice Lord Vader, but in these earlier installments of the Star Wars books, the influence of their darkest sides remain.<br />This is not the only book that introduces weapons of mass destruction that were left behind and remained threats. I had forgotten just how many there were, and I again would suggest than anyone who has jumped in to this epic at a later point, should consider coming back to these earlier books. They all have substantial detail, character introductions, and history, that are referred to many books later.<br />Ms. Barbara Hambly did a great job in this book. The environments that are the settings for the tale are more confined than other books. The entire Galaxy is not the setting; this is neither good nor bad, just different. With this story it is the way to handle her plot, as personalities are what this is about, machines and space battles are not center stage, and when certain inanimate mechanical devices are central to the story, are they inanimate?<br />Ms. Hambly explores a variety of scenarios that draw different lines between what is life, what is a hybrid, and what is not. Did the Emperor leave behind a biologic piece of himself, and if he did how many implants would remove this remnant from the category of life as we define it? What of a Jedi that for 30 years is acutely sentient but has no physical form? What if this Jedi regained a body, what manner of life would this be?<br />If a humanoid's body were to die yet every thought and memory was transferred to an artificial construct, what would you have? Would the result be a C3PO type, or would this new being with a human's memory encased in electronics be human, be alive?<br />This is just one of the themes in this work. The question of whether or not other Jedi did survive the Emperor's attempt to eradicate them is addressed. Was Mara Jade the only \\"hand\\" the Emperor had? The bits and pieces continually are shared, and the Star Wars sage becomes more complete.<br />A great read, a great Author, and a great help for someone wanting to find out what the references to \\"The Eye Of Palpitine\\" are all about.st one of the themes in this work. The question of whether or not other Jedi did survive the Emperor's attempt to eradicate them is addressed. Was Mara Jade the only \\"hand\\" the Emperor had? The bits and pieces continually are shared, and the Star Wars sage becomes more complete.<br />A great read, a great Author, and a great help for someone wanting to find out what the references to \\"The Eye Of Palpitine\\" are all about.	2000-11-13
2212634:US	53047425	RYQO1RHEVMN6Z	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	17	20	N	N	The Stars And My Review Are Contradictory	How to reconcile the stars with the statement that I did not enjoy this book?<br />Steve Martin is a gifted practitioner of words whether he is writing, speaking, singing, or communicating through an actor who speaks his words, or speaking the words as he acts out the thoughts of another. This book is a very good piece of writing, it is at times humorous, is nearly uniformly clever, and I still dislike it.<br />Another individual used the word \\"startling\\" to describe some of the writing and dialogue. I agree, but it was because I didn't expect this from Mr. Martin. I suppose it can be considered arrogant to expect anything from an Author, but as Mr. Martin has been around for so long, he becomes familiar, and this was anything but what I expected.<br />The characters are very well done, and are almost uniformly wretched and pathetic. Their treatment of one another is again, with rare exception, atrocious. The Author is even-handed; as there are male and female characters whose demise no one would mourn.<br />Mr. Martin delves into relationships that explore the most unseemly side of human relations, and perhaps the style he used was appropriate. As I said, I admire the talent that the book represents, but I did not like reading it.<br />There is one flaw in the book, unless I was oblivious to some key event. A character makes an appearance; he clearly has a great deal to do with another player in the book, and by extension the behavior of even more individuals. But as abruptly as he arrives, he is forgotten, we never even see him leave.<br />Worth reading for the caliber of writing, but for me, the characters and the story were too degrading.	2000-11-13
2217485:US	53047425	RSNFYFVARH0JI	0738203491	205572118	The Pleasure of Finding Things Out: The Best Short Works of Richard P. Feynman	Books	5	75	78	N	N	The kick in the discovery	I felt a bit of trepidation when approaching this work, as reading a collection of what are considered \\"The Best Short Works\\" of a Nobel Laureate Physicist, sounds daunting even for someone trained to some degree in the field. I am not so trained. Mr. Richard Feynman has the additional gift of speaking passionately, and often in a self-deprecating manner, about what he does, with the result that the layperson can enjoy both his originally spoken, and written thoughts.  There are terms and concepts that are understood best, and perhaps only, by those who have made the decision to pursue physics to its higher levels. However the vast majority of the book is readable to any that are inquisitive.<br />Mr. Feynman's Father was also a remarkable man. He was not a trained scientist, and his profession had absolutely nothing to do with science. However as is repeated throughout the book he was the catalyst that recognized and nurtured the talent his precocious son possessed. This topic and the ideas that are expressed about learning and teaching are just one of the topics that is completely accessible to any reader. The topics make for such interesting reading, as the author's enthusiasm combined with his gift for explaining the complex and the abstract, is what allows his thoughts to be accessible, and this is what I enjoyed so much. He was a man of great enthusiasm for the wonders that he sought to understand, and his writing transfers this feeling to his audience.<br />The quote that titles this review is Mr. Feynman's way of describing his feelings when he learns something new. The feelings translated not only into every recognition that his peers could bestow, but also a gift to the rest of us, for he was able to apply the same mind to questions of religion, morality, teaching, governmental roles in science, the responsibilities scientists have to society, and dozens of other topics.<br />I enjoyed the entire work but there were some sections that could have justified the entire time spent reading on their own. His lecture at The Galileo Symposium in 1964, and his report on the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster were remarkable. I was unaware of his role as an investigator into the Challenger episode, and was even more surprised that the committee on which he served attempted to suppress his report. Once you have read his report you will understand why many would have liked to see it locked away. He explains what is arguably the most complex piece of equipment assembled by man, and it is elegant in its simplicity. I believe he intended it to be so, as he could have made his case in language that would have been foreign if he had so chose.<br />I read this book as I enjoyed \\"Fermat's Enigma\\" so much. It is not necessary to understand everything that is involved with what these gifted minds have done. It is a pure joy when you can read and gain a glimpse, just a bit, of the ideas that are discussed. It requires a gifted speaker/writer, and this man clearly counted his extraordinary ability to communicate among his skills.<br />A wonderful enlightening book.the entire time spent reading on their own. His lecture at The Galileo Symposium in 1964, and his report on the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster were remarkable. I was unaware of his role as an investigator into the Challenger episode, and was even more surprised that the committee on which he served attempted to suppress his report. Once you have read his report you will understand why many would have liked to see it locked away. He explains what is arguably the most complex piece of equipment assembled by man, and it is elegant in its simplicity. I believe he intended it to be so, as he could have made his case in language that would have been foreign if he had so chose.<br />I read this book as I enjoyed \\"Fermat's Enigma\\" so much. It is not necessary to understand everything that is involved with what these gifted minds have done. It is a pure joy when you can read and gain a glimpse, just a bit, of the ideas that are discussed. It requires a gifted speaker/writer, and this man clearly counted his extraordinary ability to communicate among his skills.<br />A wonderful enlightening book.	2000-11-08
2218608:US	53047425	RUKFIOLCKY3FC	093058838X	835492524	The Harvest Gypsies: On the Road to the Grapes of Wrath	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Was It Really A Novel?	Were the \\"Grapes of Wrath\\" published today, it may like other recent books, have been classified as historical fiction as opposed to a novel. I am thinking specifically of \\"Artemisia\\" that was published as both in different countries. How the work is classified is not critical, as either way it is one of the finest pieces of literature that has been written, and for many people, Steinbeck's finest work.<br />\\"The Harvest Gypsies\\" is a collection of 7 articles that Mr. Steinbeck wrote as a journalist. All were concerned with the issues he dealt with in the resulting book. This small volume is greatly enhanced by the photographs of Dorothea Lange, and the introduction of Charles Wollenberg.<br />One of the people the book was dedicated to was \\"Tom\\", actually Tom Collins, who was a manager of a federal migrant labor camp in California. The lines of fact and fiction are eventually blurred with him, as Tom Collins was the model for the character of \\"Jim Rawley\\" manager of \\"The Wheatpatch Camp\\" in \\"The Grapes Of Wrath\\". Ms. Lange's photographs could have been illustrations for Mr. Steinbeck's book, for when viewing them you can pick out the faces that could have accounted for the members of Steinbeck's epic.<br />This is a very brief book, but it portrays the migratory farm workers lives, as being even worse, if that can be imagined. A novel always offers the ultimate refuge of being fiction; these 7 articles and their photographs take away that solace. The brutality, random murder, and disease that was rampant, and the State of California that allowed the behaviors, are atrocious. In the context of one of the writings, one of the large growers who sanctioned the killing and starvation that was part of the agriculture industry stated that, \\"without a peon population the economy of California could not function\\". Steinbeck takes this statement of arrogance and ignorance, that is routinely spoken by any exploiter, and logically demonstrates that were this indeed the case, the state could no longer exist. For were it to continue to exist with its fascist policies, the most basic of Democratic rights would have to be absented.<br />Milk, that played so prominent a role in the book is spoken of extensively in the articles. Many of the most painful parts of the book were so common in reality, that the book may seem mild at times.<br />No matter how many times you have read the book, once this collection of articles are read, the experience of the book will not only change, I believe it will be enhanced.he state could no longer exist. For were it to continue to exist with its fascist policies, the most basic of Democratic rights would have to be absented.<br />Milk, that played so prominent a role in the book is spoken of extensively in the articles. Many of the most painful parts of the book were so common in reality, that the book may seem mild at times.<br />No matter how many times you have read the book, once this collection of articles are read, the experience of the book will not only change, I believe it will be enhanced.	2000-11-07
2219364:US	53047425	R1TMX6MZLPWWYE	0375410775	600659267	Off Camera: Private Thoughts Made Public	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Excellent, not perfect, but still excellent	Mr. Ted Koppel is easily one of the most respected journalists we have the pleasure of listening to and watching almost daily. He has honed his craft for 36 years, and has anchored \\"Nightline\\" for nearly 20 years. If peer recognition is used as a measure of his contribution and talent, 32 Emmy Awards, 6 Peabody Awards, 9 Overseas Press Awards, and several others clearly demonstrate he is held in high regard.<br />As the book takes place in a daily entry format, it is not as fluid as more traditional prose, and Mr. Koppel clearly enjoyed having some fun while documenting the remarkable events that a successful career, that is his, entails. I refer specifically to his asides about his food shopping at Giant Supermarkets. These light diversions are at times extremely funny and serve to demonstrate a wit that I was not familiar with. Even though they reside on competing networks, he clearly could step in for Andy Rooney if the occasion arose.<br />The thoughts recorded over the year of 1999 are in the main serious by themselves, and in the specifics of the topics he describes. He is brutally candid about an enormous range of issues, and this is the only reason I can think of that would cause some readers to not like this book. I still believe his insights are valuable even if one or more may not be in line with your own.<br />If you are a supporter of President Clinton, you will not like this book. Mr. Koppel has strong feelings about what a President should be, what a leader is, and Mr. Clinton does not meet any of them. The Clintons evidently feel the same, as when Elie Wiesel asked that Mr. Koppel be one of his 5 friends at a dinner for him at The Whitehouse, the invitation was never sent. Though Mr. Koppel never expected the invitation to be honored, it clearly offended Mr. Wiesel, and demonstrated the pettiness that The White House can enjoy.<br />I enjoyed the format of the book as he spoke briefly in his entries as measured by length, by expressed more understanding of his chosen topics than many books on the same subjects convey. In 3 paragraphs he flays foreign policy for the contradiction in terms it often is, and in slightly more space he demonstrates how strange the attitudes toward Mr. Clinton have been. There were a series of questions asked by pollsters, and not one was ambiguous in expressing the thoughts of those asked; \\"the majority (73-79%) of the American people are perfectly content to have a President whom they regard as having low moral and ethical standards, who is not a positive role model for young people and who is neither honest nor trustworthy, but who appears, figuratively speaking, to be bringing home the bacon.\\" Former Democratic Governor of New York Mr. Mario Cuomo said, \\"Yeah, I wouldn't trust this guy in Church, and I wouldn't let him date my Sister, but he's a terrific President.\\" One has to wonder which of Mr. Clinton's frailties Mr. Cuomo lacked that kept him from seeking the Presidency.<br />We learn who he believes constitutes a leader, Winston Churchill, George Washington, and why even leaders who may have had faults, like King Hussein, were still leaders as they routinely did that which Clinton has never done, put the people they represent, their Country, ahead of themselves, their own interests.<br />He speaks eloquently on issues of race, commenting on our taking in 20,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia, and wondering will the same ever be the case with a similar exodus from the Continent of Africa.<br />He says more than once that we may someday refer to the present years as the \\"prewar years\\". He also shares the little known secret that the rest of the world does not necessarily think America is quite as great as we find ourselves. Kosovo and its surroundings, and inhabitants illustrate beautifully, how our actions are perceived by those we believe we are helping. It's the old adage that perception is all that matters.<br />The book is opinionated but not arrogant. Mr. Koppel hasstrong views, but he also has the first hand experience and knowledge to back his statements. You may not like some of what he has to say, but you will be hard pressed to debate and defeat him. I do find it very upsetting that so many quotes in the book have been paraded about so far from the context they were in, as to make them not only meaningless and irrelevant to how they actually appear in the book, but also are denigrating to those people who are mentioned. Mr. Koppel has strong negative feelings about the actions of some, he never wrote in the humiliating manner some of the selective outtakes of the book suggest.<br />As I said earlier, excellent, but not perfect, however, books like this are so frustratingly rare, it is even more valuable that he took the time to write it. He did not write for the money, or for the attention. He has the former from nearly 4 decades of hard work, and the latter he has every evening.<br />A very well informed, articulate man, who has delivered a work that is at times sobering, is thoroughly engaging, and thought provoking.<br />Unconditionally recommended.strong views, but he also has the first hand experience and knowledge to back his statements. You may not like some of what he has to say, but you will be hard pressed to debate and defeat him. I do find it very upsetting that so many quotes in the book have been paraded about so far from the context they were in, as to make them not only meaningless and irrelevant to how they actually appear in the book, but also are denigrating to those people who are mentioned. Mr. Koppel has strong negative feelings about the actions of some, he never wrote in the humiliating manner some of the selective outtakes of the book suggest.<br />As I said earlier, excellent, but not perfect, however, books like this are so frustratingly rare, it is even more valuable that he took the time to write it. He did not write for the money, or for the attention. He has the former from nearly 4 decades of hard work, and the latter he has every evening.<br />A very well informed, articulate man, who has delivered a work that is at times sobering, is thoroughly engaging, and thought provoking.<br />Unconditionally recommended.	2000-11-06
2220298:US	53047425	R3L2ZKR4W2TAU8	0553073273	81931578	Star Wars: Heir To The Empire	Books	5	23	31	N	N	Are The Yuuzhan Vong Getting You Down?	Perhaps you miss Chewbacca, or the earlier years when Star Wars seemed a bit simpler, and no one felt the need to start pruning central and favorite characters, in order to make \\"Science Fiction\\" more realistic. Or maybe you need to brush up on which Grand Admiral was causing trouble for planets after studying with his glowing red eyes their art, as a prelude to their destruction. And do you recall which sessile tree-dwelling creatures made their debut or the Planet that was their home, or perhaps the smuggler who also resided there.<br />I just wanted to go back to where the Star wars experience continued, to the summer of 1991, and the first trilogy written by Timothy Zahn. I wanted to see how well this volume held up after almost a decade, and dozens upon dozens of books, and one prequel later.<br />The effect is rather jarring, and it is only not due to Chewbacca's presence, or the amount of action that takes place on his home planet of Kashyyyk.  The Star Wars Universe described some 9 years ago for readers, that documented events only 5 years after Episode VI, really is a very different place. The cast of players is dramatically fewer, and I gained even more appreciation for just how complex the latest novels have become.<br />I also suggest that for those who became fans of the written adventures later on in their development, that they would gain a much better grounding by reading these first books that take place after the middle cinematic trilogy. Many of the players in this first book continue on to the most recent \\"Balance Point\\" by Kathy Tyers. And others, who also remain, have evolved so far as to be unrecognizable, if you knowledge of them is limited to the more recent books.<br />I know there are fans out there that have never forgotten a single detail of any adventure. I wish I could claim such an accurate memory. This book sat on a shelf for 9 years, and while the read was very different, it was still very enjoyable. The only element that has diminished is that when this book first arrived, it was the first fresh experience for all who had been with the series since 1977, and for those who had never seen the films.<br />Diminished may be too strong a word, for Mr. Zahn is one of the masters of the Star Wars history, and excellent writing rarely degrades with time.<br />So get it, or read again what you may have owned for a decade. Travel back to Mount Tantiss, and the figure that calls it home, and your subsequent reads will be improved.ished is that when this book first arrived, it was the first fresh experience for all who had been with the series since 1977, and for those who had never seen the films.<br />Diminished may be too strong a word, for Mr. Zahn is one of the masters of the Star Wars history, and excellent writing rarely degrades with time.<br />So get it, or read again what you may have owned for a decade. Travel back to Mount Tantiss, and the figure that calls it home, and your subsequent reads will be improved.	2000-11-06
2223909:US	53047425	RXTIPHOX6GRXQ	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	5	89	96	N	N	Calliope Would Approve Of Mr. Ludlums Prometheus	Wherever you keep your favorite works by Mr. Ludlum, \\"The Prometheus Deception\\" deserves equal space. It has been too long since there has been a Ludlum book that belonged with the best of what he has written. \\"The Hades Factor\\", was to some unknown degree his work, it was wretched, and even though I am an admirer who has read all his published works, that co-authored mess received a one star rating. A rating denoting a book that should have never left the realm of Hades.<br />This is top tier writing from Mr. Ludlum. To the extent there appears to be familiarity, it usually is due to the number of imitators that have tried to emulate the real masters of this genre like John Le Carre, and Mr. Ludlum. The imitators are usually one hit mediocrities whose borrowing from the real craftsmen may put a nick or two to a work, but after 30 years and 22 novels, Mr. Ludlum stands, if not alone, then certainly with very few peers.<br />This work will bring veteran readers back to the days of the original \\"Matarese\\" and \\"Bourne\\" books, in terms of their complexity, their cadence, and quality. This book is not perfect, but in spite of those readers whose constant refrain of, \\"it could have been better\\"; this is escapist fiction at its best. And while many readers, myself included, can romanticize the memories of the first book or two we read by Mr. Ludlum, if you actually do go back, like many memories they are selective. A subsequent book rarely compares to the thrill of finding a new Author and enjoying that first read. \\"Prometheus\\", for first time Ludlum readers, will remain a favorite, as the original \\"Matarese\\" has for me.<br />Mr. Ludlum has managed to reinvent some of the relationships from the Cold War in this construct of deceit, this nesting of lies within one another, just as Matryoshka Dolls hold an uncertain number within, with each getting smaller, until the final number is known. It is the same, as there are more deceptions than the one named on the cover, and some are not really deceptions at all. Does double deception equal truth? You can decide for yourself as Ludlum skips around to the familiar haunts of, Geneva, Brussels, Moscow, Washington, and a dozen others. This time the events are as well done as his original early works. Mr. Ludlum has clearly learned about the newest technologic exotica, how it works, and how it can be used. This is not generic phrase dropping he really knows the material.<br />The book is not perfect; please note Mr. Ludlum, video cameras do not use \\"film\\", never have, and never will. The book also builds on situations and people that are non-fiction, but to tell his story realistically, to spin the tale with substitute players it would have been just as obvious who the real world counterparts are, would not have been credible, and would have detracted from the book.<br />Not every idea is new, but how many new books are truly absolutely original? The difference is that Mr. Ludlum can write, so everything old and badly written, is new again, and a pleasure to read.<br />If you have never read this writer's work, this is a great place to start. If you are a veteran, you will love it, and if \\"The Hades Factor\\" is all you have known of Mr. Ludlum, throw it out, and forget it, that book had nothing of this man's talent within it.<br />And as an added bonus, this book shares the genetic makeup of \\"Matarese\\" and \\"Bourne\\". When you read the book you will understand, and be pleased.are not really deceptions at all. Does double deception equal truth? You can decide for yourself as Ludlum skips around to the familiar haunts of, Geneva, Brussels, Moscow, Washington, and a dozen others. This time the events are as well done as his original early works. Mr. Ludlum has clearly learned about the newest technologic exotica, how it works, and how it can be used. This is not generic phrase dropping he really knows the material.<br />The book is not perfect; please note Mr. Ludlum, video cameras do not use \\"film\\", never have, and never will. The book also builds on situations and people that are non-fiction, but to tell his story realistically, to spin the tale with substitute players it would have been just as obvious who the real world counterparts are, would not have been credible, and would have detracted from the book.<br />Not every idea is new, but how many new books are truly absolutely original? The difference is that Mr. Ludlum can write, so everything old and badly written, is new again, and a pleasure to read.<br />If you have never read this writer's work, this is a great place to start. If you are a veteran, you will love it, and if \\"The Hades Factor\\" is all you have known of Mr. Ludlum, throw it out, and forget it, that book had nothing of this man's talent within it.<br />And as an added bonus, this book shares the genetic makeup of \\"Matarese\\" and \\"Bourne\\". When you read the book you will understand, and be pleased.	2000-11-02
2225344:US	53047425	R1CAQR1X1Q019W	0345428579	706445147	Balance Point (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 6)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	You Will Like This One	Kathy Tyers wrote her last book for The Star Wars Galaxy in January of 1994, when she penned \\"The Truce At Bakura\\". In the intervening six and one half years she clearly has developed both as an Author, and placed herself among the top writers for Star Wars fans, with her new book \\"Balance Point\\".<br />This is the 8th book in this new series, and while subtle shifts are beginning to take place, or at least hinted at, The New Republic does not fair any better this time around, and the group that should be beyond reproach is threatened with persecution. The threat is particularly sordid and indicative of how badly the traditional alliances have become blurred, because the threat is delivered by a member, and in a place, that such an action has previously been unthinkable.<br />The theme of this book is not vastly different from the previous installments. However fans should enjoy that, instead of being spread across the galaxy, the members of the Solo Family, and the Skywalker pair of Luke and Mara are fighting together this time. Han is again prominent in the story, and the action sequences, whether individual combat, or large-scale invasion are very well done.<br />The Solo Kids are no longer Kids, they have all come into their own albeit it different ways. Even Jacen seems to have sorted out what direction he will take in his relationship with the Force. The mood is still dark, and the friends we have followed into a third decade, while not fragile, are now sporting some gray hair, except for those...but that would be a spoiler and a humorous one at that.<br />There are few light moments, but one will become a classic. Again I cannot spoil the scene, but Anakin is no longer a child, and the view from a 16 years old perspective, is...different. There are also some gestures/sacrifices that come from the least likely of players, and it was instances like these, that give the slightest bit of hope, that the end of this series will not end all we have come to know and enjoy.<br />There is a long way to go in this story line, and this particular installment ends as dramatically as any of the previous seven, and perhaps even more so.<br />Kathy Tyler has delivered a great book, enjoy!njoy.<br />There is a long way to go in this story line, and this particular installment ends as dramatically as any of the previous seven, and perhaps even more so.<br />Kathy Tyler has delivered a great book, enjoy!	2000-11-01
2225517:US	53047425	R1UUMYQFSTJ83Q	0395346460	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Christopher Tolkiens Honesty	Firstly, I don't believe that anyone who has read \\"The Lord Of The Rings\\" as one book, or as a multi volume experience, will suggest the read was anything short of incredible. The world and the fantasy created by J.R.R. Tolkien were unprecedented, without peer, and elements are adapted into many contemporary fantasy epics. Happily, pieces are integrated more as a tribute rather than plagiarism. Another well-known saga created by George Lucas contains bits that clearly are made as an acknowledgement of Mr. Tolkien, who created the most original world of fantasy.<br />I was surprised when reading some thoughts of other readers, this is a much different read than what Tolkien fans are accustomed too, but it is not a measure of a reader's intellect, or whether they appreciate the intricate nature of the book. The book is brilliant, very different, and since Christopher Tolkien spends several pages explaining why this was a nearly impossible book to piece together, you are in the best of company if you find the read difficult. The book is not an I.Q. test, nor does it require some sort of Tolkien connoisseur for the book to be appreciated, statements like these are simply presumptuous, arrogant examples of nonsense.<br />This is a great book and I would hate to see anyone pass it up. Christopher Tolkien states, \\"As the years passed the changes and variants both in detail and in larger perspectives, became so complex, and so many layered that a final and definitive version seemed unattainable.\\" He also states that absolute consistency with the other books is impossible, the book is at times vague, lacks cohesion, etc.<br />This was an evolving work of half a century that never was brought before the public until after the writer's death. It was a work in progress for 50 years of the writer's life, and he never stopped changing it.<br />And the entire pretense about the book's complexity or the need for an exclusive audience is nonsense. If you like reading Tolkien, this is different, but you will enjoy it. Christopher Tolkien provides a great deal of background material, and multiple indices so the reader can follow the players. In a way, the fact it takes more time to read is a blessing, as there are no new books that are going to be written.<br />Mr. Tolkien was a great friend of Mr. C.S. Lewis, the Author of dozens of books, from theological \\"Mere Christianity\\", to children's books \\"The Chronicles Of Narnia\\", and his own Science Fiction Trilogy \\"Out Of The Silent Planet, Perelandra, and That Hideous Strength.\\"<br />This book like Lewis's \\"Space Trilogy\\" can be very complex. In their respective works both men were writing about theological and philosophical preoccupations, as well as fantasy, mythology, and legends. Parts of \\"Silmarillion\\" actually began as poetry.<br />The \\"Third Age\\" of Tolkien's world with Gandalf and the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins, are familiar friends to readers everywhere. This book is a great addition to \\"The Lord Of The Rings\\" but it takes place in the \\"First Age\\", so you deal with some of the references made in the former as events that are \\"contemporary\\" and not historical. Think Phantom Menace versus A New Hope.<br />There is still a great deal of unpublished work about the first through the third ages, and perhaps someday all will be available to be read sequentially.<br />Unless and until the complete story is shared, enjoy this book. There are 3 movies being made of \\"The Lord Of The Rings\\". While I hope they do justice to the writings, I would hope a person's first exposure to this man's work is through his books.s different, but you will enjoy it. Christopher Tolkien provides a great deal of background material, and multiple indices so the reader can follow the players. In a way, the fact it takes more time to read is a blessing, as there are no new books that are going to be written.<br />Mr. Tolkien was a great friend of Mr. C.S. Lewis, the Author of dozens of books, from theological \\"Mere Christianity\\", to children's books \\"The Chronicles Of Narnia\\", and his own Science Fiction Trilogy \\"Out Of The Silent Planet, Perelandra, and That Hideous Strength.\\"<br />This book like Lewis's \\"Space Trilogy\\" can be very complex. In their respective works both men were writing about theological and philosophical preoccupations, as well as fantasy, mythology, and legends. Parts of \\"Silmarillion\\" actually began as poetry.<br />The \\"Third Age\\" of Tolkien's world with Gandalf and the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins, are familiar friends to readers everywhere. This book is a great addition to \\"The Lord Of The Rings\\" but it takes place in the \\"First Age\\", so you deal with some of the references made in the former as events that are \\"contemporary\\" and not historical. Think Phantom Menace versus A New Hope.<br />There is still a great deal of unpublished work about the first through the third ages, and perhaps someday all will be available to be read sequentially.<br />Unless and until the complete story is shared, enjoy this book. There are 3 movies being made of \\"The Lord Of The Rings\\". While I hope they do justice to the writings, I would hope a person's first exposure to this man's work is through his books.	2000-11-01
2225964:US	53047425	R3R7E0W1XRFISX	1551110172	817022878	The Evil Genius	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Evil, Genius, Or Both	Mr. Collins is best known for \\"The Moonstone\\", and \\"The Lady In White\\", and is generally considered the originator of modern mystery writing. He wrote an extensive body of work that never reached the same success with the public as the 2 works already mentioned. Some of his later work is not of the same caliber of his best-known writings, but there are many that are well worth the time of any reader that enjoys 19th Century Fiction. \\"The Evil Genius\\" is one work that while not stellar when compared to his best, is still as good or better than many contemporary practitioners of the genre.<br />Mr. Collins had an interest in the laws of Scotland as they applied to marriage. This was a theme he dealt with on more than one occasion. I have found him to be unique that while he addresses the impact of the law on both men and women, he more often than not explores the women's viewpoint, either as victim or beneficiary of Scotland's unique body of law. \\"Evil Genius\\" is an example of the law being a \\"friend\\" to the Wife, however this is but one event that results from the tale, and catalyzes many others.<br />This is not a mystery in the style of who did the deed, rather a study in who did what to whom and why. There is one who I believe virtually all readers will deem \\"The Evil Genius\\", however Mr. Collins gives all involved in this tale their chance at the title. In several cases the action that you readily expect of a person is precisely what they do not do. Generosity replaces greed, falsehoods of a devastating nature are set on the most innocent of persons, and honor has as many meanings in this work as there are characters that believe they practice it.<br />The story includes an opening with a jury that will ensure you never want to be a defendant, a ship that was alleged to have been intentionally destroyed at sea facilitating a diamond theft, and the ship's captain languishing in prison awaiting the verdict. From this point on the book traces the seemingly random intersecting of a variety of persons, some of who are the more interesting characters Mr. Collins created. There is Mrs. Presty, the Mother In Law created by Dante, Mrs. Linley or Norman or Linley and her extremely precocious Daughter Kitty, a Captain Bennydeck, and the attorney Mr. Sarrazin. Mr. Sarrazin is particularly interesting, described as \\"being English down to the weight of his umbrella\\"; he is actually of French descent. These alternate personalities are demonstrated when he rescues truffles from a friend's plate, and finding he could have only enjoyed them more were his eyes closed so that he may have concentrated upon them. However when asked whether he can row a boat he replies \\"In any water you like Mr. Gardener, fresh or salt.\\" And then \\"Think of asking Me an athletic Englishman, if I could row!\\"<br />The story is not the strongest of Mr. Collins's works, but is very worthwhile. A decent story that contains great players, and some wonderful dialogue.tersecting of a variety of persons, some of who are the more interesting characters Mr. Collins created. There is Mrs. Presty, the Mother In Law created by Dante, Mrs. Linley or Norman or Linley and her extremely precocious Daughter Kitty, a Captain Bennydeck, and the attorney Mr. Sarrazin. Mr. Sarrazin is particularly interesting, described as \\"being English down to the weight of his umbrella\\"; he is actually of French descent. These alternate personalities are demonstrated when he rescues truffles from a friend's plate, and finding he could have only enjoyed them more were his eyes closed so that he may have concentrated upon them. However when asked whether he can row a boat he replies \\"In any water you like Mr. Gardener, fresh or salt.\\" And then \\"Think of asking Me an athletic Englishman, if I could row!\\"<br />The story is not the strongest of Mr. Collins's works, but is very worthwhile. A decent story that contains great players, and some wonderful dialogue.	2000-10-31
2229390:US	53047425	R2P085OV33M95H	0156011832	370942280	The Stones Cry Out	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wires	\\"and his face resembled a skeleton of wires covered with parchment\\"<br />The metaphor of a person wasting away is not unique. What is usually different between Authors is what they say about the material that covers the bones. What it is like that is not human, and denotes fragility. The quote I reference is on page one, and the metaphor of wires I found unique, as I found the entire book. Mr. Hikaru Okuizumi is a talented writer who transfers enormous amounts of information and emotion in a very small space. In the case of \\"The Stones Cry Out\\" 138 pages is all he uses, all he needs.<br />I don't know how much elegance is lost when translating from Japanese into English, but there were a few points that seemed too rough and out of step with the cadence the Author set for this piece. The story as a whole is wonderfully written, however the reader must reach to nearly the very end before the book's genius is realized. At least this was the case for me. I found much of the contemporary plot, with lengthy highly detailed writing about stone collecting tedious. It is true this flows from the book's opening line \\"Even the SMALLEST stone in the riverbed has the entire history of the universe inscribed upon it.\\" Where and when the protagonist hears these words is the real center of the tale, and it is as dark as the cave it is heard in.<br />Ms. Renoir mentioned that the possibility of illusion being present in the mind of Manase whose story is the one we read. When I reached the end I was struck with two strong reactions, one was that I was astounded at how much was relayed in so short a story, and secondly how unsure I was of what had happened. I read the book a second time only reading the earlier of the two time frames with one exception, and the result while different, is still not definitive for me.<br />There indeed are 138 pages, when you remove what I felt did not have a direct bearing on what actually happened, the number is easily cut in half. That only doubled my amazement at what this man can write, and I still am not certain I can draw the line between fact, dreams, and possible illusions.<br />The book is remarkable; I hope it serves to have more of his work translated.y amazement at what this man can write, and I still am not certain I can draw the line between fact, dreams, and possible illusions.<br />The book is remarkable; I hope it serves to have more of his work translated.	2000-10-28
2233827:US	53047425	RCWECI3TAIMMY	0151004536	271428762	Longing	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Ex Votus	\\"The epigraphs are archival. The characters are historical. The dates of events and correspondence are, when verifiable, authentic. The rest is fiction masquerading as fact, and the reverse.\\" (Author's Note)<br />Historical fiction demands of the Author both accuracy, and the ability to occupy the interstices that the historical record has left. When done well, as is the case with \\"Longing\\" by J.D. Landis, the result is excellent. His writing is credible to the level of personal dialogue and gestures. When done poorly, this genre does not even pause when sinking past Revisionist History. When this happens the work falls into a void where mediocrity reigns over writing hopefully forgotten.<br />This work does not come easily to the reader, the book contains extensive detail on Pianos, their makers, and how they differ. The vocabulary of gifted, classically trained artists is used liberally, and context does not suffice. How is any but the rarest of readers capable of listening to List, Chopin, and Mendelssohn describe their art? Happily Mr. Landis brings some portions of his book down several technical steps. My personal favorite was his description of an impromptu duel between List and Mendelssohn. In addition he brought the same event forward in time when he compared the duel to Billie Holliday and Coleman Hawkins, when they performed in Harlem at Nightsie Johnsons a century later. The Author's description of the first intimacy shared by Clara and Robert is one of the best I have ever read. He demonstrates beautifully that carnal detail is for the voyeur, that it is not more, that it does not add, it is only the refuge of bad writing.<br />The story is of course about Clara and Robert Schumann and their relationship, which evolves in spite of all that is done to keep them apart, and because of the love they are consumed by. Robert is a composer who cannot play what he writes, and what he does compose is largely disliked by a public who \\"does not understand\\". Robert is passionate, tortured, he is the victim of his music, the literal damage it has done to his hand, and the madness he has always known would consume him. Clara champions his music when she is kept from him, and she crosses Europe once and then dozens of times, as she is one of the finest Pianists at a time when there are numerous others who are known as well or better to the very present.<br />The world Clara occupies, and that Robert can only just be present in, when not welcome at all, is as fantastic as the composers she is among. She writes to Robert of her conversations with Soren Kierkegaard and Hans Christian Andersen with an ease that can only come from familiarity. Her world is extraordinary. She compares his life to that of Andersen when she states, \\"His work is hated here! Like you he is a prophet who goes unhonored in his own Country.\\" Robert sees himself thusly, \\"Everything I write, I write out of love for her.\\"<br />The Author also allows for moments that seem odd until placed in context. I never had thought of a Chopin or Mendelssohn complaining about the alleged wording of their endorsements of the instruments they play. But why should 19th century all stars be denied what their counterparts today practice?<br />This is a wonderful read, and the comments I have made barely touch upon all that this writer offers through this work. Like most writing of excellence it requires more effort than most, but the reader is handsomely rewarded.<br />Mr. Landis has produced a gift for all readers, and perhaps an even more special treasure for those whose knowledge of music is as great as their love for it.is passionate, tortured, he is the victim of his music, the literal damage it has done to his hand, and the madness he has always known would consume him. Clara champions his music when she is kept from him, and she crosses Europe once and then dozens of times, as she is one of the finest Pianists at a time when there are numerous others who are known as well or better to the very present.<br />The world Clara occupies, and that Robert can only just be present in, when not welcome at all, is as fantastic as the composers she is among. She writes to Robert of her conversations with Soren Kierkegaard and Hans Christian Andersen with an ease that can only come from familiarity. Her world is extraordinary. She compares his life to that of Andersen when she states, \\"His work is hated here! Like you he is a prophet who goes unhonored in his own Country.\\" Robert sees himself thusly, \\"Everything I write, I write out of love for her.\\"<br />The Author also allows for moments that seem odd until placed in context. I never had thought of a Chopin or Mendelssohn complaining about the alleged wording of their endorsements of the instruments they play. But why should 19th century all stars be denied what their counterparts today practice?<br />This is a wonderful read, and the comments I have made barely touch upon all that this writer offers through this work. Like most writing of excellence it requires more effort than most, but the reader is handsomely rewarded.<br />Mr. Landis has produced a gift for all readers, and perhaps an even more special treasure for those whose knowledge of music is as great as their love for it.	2000-10-25
2234465:US	53047425	R2UD7LQ1O2HILY	0395478049	447464372	Offshore	Books	5	33	36	N	N	This should have been one Booker Award amongst many	The novels have all been read, but the stories continue. This was the last of Ms. Fitzgerald's novels that I had yet to read, and was also the only work of hers than won the prestigious Booker Award. Her other works that were short listed for the award were \\"The Bookshop\\", \\"The Gate Of Angels\\", and \\"The Beginning Of Spring\\". In a writing career that produced 9 works of fiction, to have placed 4 of the 9 as finalists, and to win once is extraordinary. These novels, 3 works of non-fiction, and a collection of short stories, were all published in a span of time of just 15 years. It is certainly selfish, but I wish she began sharing her work before she was 69, in the end it does not matter, as the body of work she did produce will keep her in print for many lifetimes to come.<br />Ms. Fitzgerald wrote short novels; in \\"Offshore\\" she has compressed the story into a space that is at once confining and colorful as her books. The majority of the book takes place on boats, boats that never move. Boats that would normally form there own tiny area of culture, but this is Ms. Fitzgerald, so as is normally the case conventional measurement has nothing to do with the scope of the story. This time out she seems to test just how far she can compress the space, the number of people and their stories.<br />This sometimes-floating living location is a raving contradiction in space. Boats and barges meant to be mobile are not, nature can use the tide of the Thames to raise and then settle them down once again, but any motion more abrupt and the small fragile world is put in peril. A motionless boat is a contradiction in terms. A boat is inanimate, but \\"it\\" knows that being chained in place is unnatural, or perhaps all the life that clings to the sides of these vessels are nature's disaffected elements, determined to find a way to undo what should not have been done.<br />\\"I never do anything deliberately\\" is spoken by one character, but is appropriate for several. This group of eclectic eccentrics may possibly be the greatest menagerie the writer ever conjured for one tale.<br />I cannot begin to pick a favorite from her novels; she is as excellent as she is consistent.  I do know this, that unlike her characters, Ms. Fitzgerald chose every word deliberately, built every sentence with her exactitude, and delivered works that are absolutely complete.<br />The Booker Judges deemed this work \\"flawless\\", they were correct.c eccentrics may possibly be the greatest menagerie the writer ever conjured for one tale.<br />I cannot begin to pick a favorite from her novels; she is as excellent as she is consistent.  I do know this, that unlike her characters, Ms. Fitzgerald chose every word deliberately, built every sentence with her exactitude, and delivered works that are absolutely complete.<br />The Booker Judges deemed this work \\"flawless\\", they were correct.	2000-10-24
2236054:US	53047425	R2SI9NTP1KUJV5	0395908728	293918717	Innocence	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Something has to come last	I very much enjoy Ms. Fitzgerald's work, of the nine novels she wrote I have read 8, with The Booker Award Winning work \\"Offshore\\" remaining. Presuming those that bestowed the Award were correct, and the other reviewers of \\"Innocence\\" are also correct, if I were to rank the 8 novels I have read this is number 8, and is likely to be number 9 when \\"Offshore\\" has been completed.<br />Ms. Fitzgerald often has left a book with the ending open, at times in an initially jarring manner. This is again the case with \\"Innocence\\", and the ending is not alone. This work is lengthy when compared to most of Ms. Fitzgerald's works, and its length allows for more of the wonderful characters she creates, and the usually odd circumstances they create, or are victimized by. In this case, with one exception, even when well done, I generally felt nothing or actively disliked the players.<br />The exception is Barney, one of the most unusual, colorful, and unconventional characters Ms. Fitzgerald created. When a female is described when smiling, as having the perfect teeth for an Ogress you are reading about someone interesting. Barney is overwhelming in everything she does, there are no half measures, and the world of half tones is invisible to her. Snap decisions based upon a handshake suffice to sanction or condemn a marriage, choose a mate, and serve as a basis for her turning her life 180 degrees in less than a moment.<br />There is one other prominent player in the book, and he is the Doctor. However he is as annoying as he is prominent, and there is nothing entertaining or clever about him. He interacts with a variety of people who are all uniformly one dimensional, and are impossible to care about, much less dislike, they, like the story, drift along.<br />But as I said there is Barney. You have to love a woman who asks a pregnant friend, \\"Do you want a girl, or a little teapot?\\" Ms. Fitzgerald is a wonderful writer, and even this book is better than many other writers I have read. The previous works have just been so much better, that this was a disappointment.. The previous works have just been so much better, that this was a disappointment.	2000-10-23
2240706:US	53047425	R3VV4C5FTIDJFU	0671793829	913323845	A Christmas Carol (Reissue)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	As Mr. Dickens once did	Firstly I have a bit of a retraction to make. I have often said that books that have been recorded, and even worse abridged, are not worth the time of the listener, and not what the writer originally intended. In this case the opposite is true. Mr. Dickens often performed portions of his work, and if you can spot the abridgments in this performance, you are very cognizent of every line of the piece.<br />Mr. Stewart is well known for his television role of Captain Picard. He is also an award winning thespian, and a long-term veteran of London's Royal Shakespeare Company. He has performed \\"A Christmas Carol\\" on stage in London, and New York City, and the elements shared were the highest recognition of his peers, and sold out shows.<br />I had the privilege to see Mr. Stewart perform his Olivier Award Winning one-man show, and it was extraordinary. The Disc will bring you his voice, and while it cannot match the presence of this Actor, the listener is missing less than you might expect.<br />The disc cannot replace the live performance. Mr. Stewart's performance is done on stage with so little in addition to his voice, short of being there this is tremendous. When on stage there are no sets, just 4 pieces of wooden furniture that he moves about, as he needs. There are no costumes, as he appeared is contemporary dress. The lighting is minimal, so when you can only listen you still have the heart of the performance. There is no extravaganza on stage, no over produced ready-made soundtrack. There is one extremely talented man, relaying one of the greatest writer's works to you.<br />There are dozens of roles to play, he plays them all, and when a conversation takes place between multiple characters, you will think you hear multiple actors. This is an accomplished classically trained actor delivering an extraordinary performance.<br />I took my Father to the show, prior to which he had no idea who Patrick Stewart was. When it was over he said that in 60 years of attending Broadway Theatre, he had seen nothing better. Enjoy!Broadway Theatre, he had seen nothing better. Enjoy!	2000-10-19
2240914:US	53047425	RKVEBRAI5YR4U	1892430002	401520901	A Lone Red Apple	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Mischievous Gods meddling with mortals	First time novelist Aurelia has taken her love for Greece and her historic islands, then added her expertise as a scholar, and has produced a charming first novel. I have never been to Greece, but like many I am fascinated with the rich history, the myths, legends, and the Gods who sometimes choose to amuse themselves with mortals.<br />The writer included another facet to her work that has become all but extinct in the modern novel, illustrations by an extraordinary capable hand. Artists whose fame was often as well known as many Authors whose work they added to, once lavishly illustrated novels. The reading public knew them and their talents as an integral part of the work. \\"A Lone Red Apple\\" is illustrated by Mr. Bill Papas, a man whose work was a part of The Guardian, Sunday Times, and Punch Magazine. Mr. Pappas is also a favorite among children's novels, and was the artist of choice for Authors ranging from C. S. Lewis, Pope John Paul I, and Malcolm Muggeridge.<br />The subjects/targets this time are a rather straight laced Professor of ancient Greek, and Elena who embodies, literally and figuratively, all that there is to love about Greece. Sappho, Pan, Aphrodite, Poseidon, and Hermes, are a few of the Immortals that amuse themselves with this pair/couple. They too are amusing if the image of Dionysus and Sappho having a pint at a small English Pub is an image that you enjoy, or perhaps the sight of Gods playing Parcheesi will delight.<br />This novel is a charming fairy tale by a new writer. It is true that not all the dialogue is as elegant as Sappho would have written, and the story jumps about a bit too much for my taste. However, I enjoyed the work and would pick one like it again over the genres of books that are so repetitive they have become generic.<br />Trying to write an intelligent review is difficult, a book infinitely more so. I believe new writers should be enjoyed as they develop their craft, rather than be pummeled by those who have written and published, nought.d published, nought.	2000-10-19
2241199:US	53047425	RBCW8J7UJW2PQ	0395956188	530454818	At Freddie's	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Not if its with me, dear.	\\"Freddie\\", a woman who is part institution and part legend, speaks the quote above; she is also the latest spectacular person that Ms. Fitzgerald offers to readers.<br />The quote is unremarkable until it is penned as an answer to an Accountant named \\"Unwin\\", who stated, \\"Surely a discussion should have a basis of substantial fact.\\" The rejoinder that is the title of this review follows, and you have a good sense that Freddie flaunts convention, floats above the rules that affect others, and when she is confronted with a bit of reality, ends the discussion with her nemesis feeling not only were they wrong, but they are indebted to her. A debt collector not only fails to collect, he leaves his vest for use as a costume for the students of Freddie's school for children of the theatre.<br />Precocious children are not new to Ms. Fitzgerald's books. In this book the line between child and adult is blurred even further, as these thespians in the making are adept at changing who they are when circumstances or their own whimsy calls. All the affectation that can be associated with their mature counterparts of the stage, are played out by the kids, and this makes for wonderful reading, as age is modified by characterization, and not measured in years.<br />There are more eccentric players in this book than the others I have read by Ms. Fitzgerald, to sample just one, a gentleman when deciding on which of the sins he would choose, does not pick one with even some benefit in this life, but chooses sloth. His opinion of himself is in line with the wish, and a more pathetic character has rarely appeared.<br />Into all this there is a love triangle of sorts, a grand piano that is sinking through the floor, \\"as though wading ashore\\", and a vast and rich story that Ms. Fitzgerald once again delivers on so few, but so spectacular pages.	2000-10-19
2241230:US	53047425	RR23OK30TB1F5	0618056653	177829621	Apollo 13: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	37	41	N	N	More remarkable than the movie	Apollo 13 is one of History's great voyages regardless of how long one extends the time frame into the past. If the mission had transpired faultlessly, it still would have qualified for the astonishing, remarkable, achievement it would have been. With the malfunctions that cascaded upon the 3 crewmen, they, together with the men and women on the ground, created their own miracle when the splashdown with the 3 crewmembers was completed. The return, in spite of the overwhelming odds that were against them, places this trip in category of great human achievement, even as it is hoped it never need be repeated.<br />One fact helped to put the trip into perspective for me. If you have a hand held calculator nearby, pick it up. The chances are the computing power you hold in your hand surpasses that available to the crew in their effort to come home. The movie demonstrated this with slid rules and math completed with paper and pencil. The whole event is almost unimaginable.<br />The book is worth reading because as hard as it may be to fathom, the actual trip was even more hazardous, the problems even more numerous than the movie portrayed. I am not suggesting the movie was flawed, only that it was limited by time for telling the entire story.<br />I met Mr. John L. Swigert when I was quite young. My memories are limited but I have a picture that was taken with him that is a treasure. Several years ago I heard Mr. Jim Lovell speak, and his remarks confirmed that the actual trip held hazards the movie did not depict. As he related parts of the story the impression was of a man who was always in control, a leader, and utterly confident in the men he flew with, and those they relied so heavily with on the ground. There was nothing about him that gave the impression that what he did was special. He is part of that \\"Greatest Generation\\", and he represents that group faultlessly.<br />I was able to meet him after the dinner, and I had my photo of Mr. Swigert with me. He was as cordial as anyone could be. There was no artifice about him, no sense that he was special. He took time to chat both with me, and a young man who also was at the dinner.<br />Speaking and listening to him, you felt that you were in the presence of someone who was unique, not only for his remarkable career in the service of his Country, but for the man he was. He is a hero. I cannot describe the feeling of speaking with him, but I hope everyone has a chance to meet such a man. When you stand next to him, you stand next to History in all its splendor and modesty.<br />The book tells a story that happened only once, and cannot happen the same way again. If you were on the edge of your seat during the movie, the book is no different. If you feel lightheaded, it's because you have forgotten to breathe.ordial as anyone could be. There was no artifice about him, no sense that he was special. He took time to chat both with me, and a young man who also was at the dinner.<br />Speaking and listening to him, you felt that you were in the presence of someone who was unique, not only for his remarkable career in the service of his Country, but for the man he was. He is a hero. I cannot describe the feeling of speaking with him, but I hope everyone has a chance to meet such a man. When you stand next to him, you stand next to History in all its splendor and modesty.<br />The book tells a story that happened only once, and cannot happen the same way again. If you were on the edge of your seat during the movie, the book is no different. If you feel lightheaded, it's because you have forgotten to breathe.	2000-10-19
2242997:US	53047425	R18XJGFXTMRBGW	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Alchemy couldnt, but the Electoral College can	Unlike most books that are placed in the category of fiction, this book could be a documentary of a future election, with just the modification of the player's names. This novel is also important in its practicality, and that is not an attribute that most novels can claim, or a goal their Author's even set. The concept of a three way race for the Presidency is not only plausible, it is an event that has taken place several time in our nation's history. Had Mr. Perot not run his campaign in his, (I'm in, I'm out, just kidding, I'm back in, manner,) we may have experienced this book, not only a fascinating constitutional process, but the strongest test of the ethics and integrity of all involved. Even with his behavior charitably described as erratic, he received 19% of the votes cast in 1992. In round numbers that's about 20 million votes.<br />But it is here that our method of electing our President, the only elected national office, becomes authored by Lewis Carroll. For then we are through the looking glass, and way down the rabbit hole, when the \\"Electoral College\\", a true form of alchemy appears. This sleight of hand turns the votes of 1 in 5 voters, 20 million people, into nothing more than a footnote. No one votes, represents, or speaks for 20 million people, so much for the idea of equality of a person's vote. Now any system this outrageously flawed, this bad, is not only dysfunctional, it is an affront to the Democracy we strive to be. The system allows for two outcomes that are not only absurdities, they contradict the whole concept of what a democratic election is supposed to be, whether a pure or simple form of Democracy.<br />The Electoral College can, and has, placed a candidate that did not receive the most votes into the White House. What is even worse, and what has also occurred, is that the House of Representatives then decides the election by voting state by state. Like any piece of legislative voting the politicking begins, and whom you voted for may not matter, the candidate that voters said no to, can become, in fact, has become President. And in our hypothetical example regardless of how many Vice Presidential Candidates they are, only the two associated with the top 2 Presidential vote recipients can be considered, your right to chose has again been deleted. What should be untouchable is dismissed.<br />There are countless books on the election process, and on The Electoral College. There are also studies that demonstrate that not all eligible voters understand the election method in detail. And as we have become a Nation that has a voting pool, the majority of whom do not participate, the power put in place in the best of circumstances is a minority decision. Only 43% of those who could vote did in the last Presidential Contest. And because the last 2 elections offered 3 candidates, the majority of the minority that did vote, cast their ballots for Bush and Perot. The majority did not want Clinton in office.<br />The reason this book is so well done, and so important to read, is that Mr. Field has taken a topic that set in textbook form can be coma inducing, and wrapped a novel around it. The method would have been meaningless if the story was poor; it is anything but. Mr. Field knows the rules that choose who governs very well, the treat here is he presents the information in a very engaging format, that informs as it entertains. This is not to suggest the importance of the process is treated lightly, for no event would test Candidates and those that would choose the President, than an election where the general election failed to pick a winner.<br />The scenario has always been divisive; it has never been tested in our contemporary times. When the scenario has arisen, History has been manipulated and changed. The Author gives an excellent lesson on how this has happened.<br />So what would the politicians do once the ability to pick the President came down to the votes of 50 States, how would they conduct themselves with arguably the greatest power they would ever have? Would the Candidates refrain from using any influence to sway a vote, no matter how illegal, no matter that the laws of tampering with an electoral vote have never been tested.<br />If the nation ever takes voting seriously again, two party elections could become a novelty. What if the 57% who have walked away are galvanized to participate, are they likely to join the existing parties who happily have, and would prefer to manage without them? These are questions that are without equal in their importance. This is the 21st Century and we still use a method for choosing our Country's Leader, and arguably the World's most influential leader, using an 18th Century System that does not work, that has never worked, that cannot work.<br />This book is extremely readable, enjoyable, and as worthy of your time as any book you may choose to read.<br />The best novel I have read this year? No. Enjoyable? Yes. One of the most important books I have read, and will continue to use as a reference source? Unconditionally!nduct themselves with arguably the greatest power they would ever have? Would the Candidates refrain from using any influence to sway a vote, no matter how illegal, no matter that the laws of tampering with an electoral vote have never been tested.<br />If the nation ever takes voting seriously again, two party elections could become a novelty. What if the 57% who have walked away are galvanized to participate, are they likely to join the existing parties who happily have, and would prefer to manage without them? These are questions that are without equal in their importance. This is the 21st Century and we still use a method for choosing our Country's Leader, and arguably the World's most influential leader, using an 18th Century System that does not work, that has never worked, that cannot work.<br />This book is extremely readable, enjoyable, and as worthy of your time as any book you may choose to read.<br />The best novel I have read this year? No. Enjoyable? Yes. One of the most important books I have read, and will continue to use as a reference source? Unconditionally!	2000-10-17
2243956:US	53047425	R3OCHWM8NNKSHN	0671042815	866458955	Dream Catcher: A Memoir	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Tests your thresholds	This memoir sets a new level for intimate, private, thoughts and details, that I at times found difficult to read. When I say difficult I mean uncomfortable. This book is about as far away from slick edited memoirs, or even more perverse, the ghost written variety that it stands alone in my reading experience. Writing down unpleasant memories has got to be very painful; sharing them with strangers takes a rare form of courage.<br />The thoughts that follow are mine, they are not meant to contradict the views of anyone, and only Ms. Salinger knows her story.<br />This book is all about J.D. Salinger if the following thought is a benchmark. There is a quote that essentially says that a Parent will be remembered for virtually nothing, other than the Children that he or she has raised. Not all Parents have written a book that is synonomous with their name and that has become a classic during the Author's lifetime, and a treasured story to almost all its readers. I knew nothing about the man J.D. Salinger prior to this book, his desire to be hidden from the world worked, as I thought he was dead.<br />I am not sorry I read the book; the man who wrote \\"The Catcher In The Rye\\" appalls me. The story will never be the same for me, however Holden had an excuse for his view of the world, the fictitious Holden was a child, a very young man who like many teenagers has a gland where in an adult a brain is found. J.D. Salinger is not eccentric, nor odd, he is a manipulative, cruel abuser, of anyone who strays in front of his path. There is nothing harmless about this severely impaired man as his actions are as calculated as they are cruel; he is nothing if not consistent.<br />Her original Mother when first paired with, and then as the result of her marriage to Mr. Salinger, is harder to condemn. Her actions while her Children were growing fail even the most basic of being a Parent, and by many standards would be categorized as trauma inducing, as Ms. Salinger states, or outright abusive. Creating an environment where a stranger can abuse your Child is hard to excuse. However there does not appear to be anyone who has had a personal relationship with this man who has come away intact. As is mentioned in the book, a reclusive setting is almost required for an addled mind like Mr. Salinger's to prey upon those around him. A man who espoused every flake cult he came in contact with, and whose personal conduct crossed the line from just strange, to particularly bizarre, and always with adverse results for those around him.<br />This is also by definition Ms. Salinger's book, her memoir, and her life so far. This book is about as far from a \\"cashing in, or selling out\\" memoir as a book can get. If she had wanted to do that, she could have written a sanitized fictional piece on this celebrated Author, and her book would have been imbedded on the bestseller lists.<br />I think Ms. Salinger is nothing short of remarkable. She has become a scholar, a Mother, a writer, a Chaplain, in spite of her life prior to her leaving home, not because of it. She has not only survived, she seems to have finally found peace, and I hope it will allow her to thrive and enjoy life, the enjoyment that was prohibited to her when she was young.<br />I'm pleased she had the means to seek help. After being sent to a school that Charles Dickens would have found appalling, with a Co-Owner/Headmistress that would make any Dickens's character cower, the means to seek help allowed her to keep going.<br />The proof of how bad her experiences at this school were, are demonstrated as follows. Her graduating class from Dante's Adirondack Prison numbered 20, she kept in contact with 8 after they graduated, and this is how their lives unfolded. Within 12 months of leaving school, Jason was in a mental hospital as was Dougal, Jamie, and Charles. Dougal told her of Brion's death prior to taking his own life, and Charles has also since died.<br />As I said Ms. Salinger is remarkable, and she has written a very powerful, and at times unnerving book. It is not in need of an editor, this is a very tough life served up ice cold and in your face. And as to the details she includes, they bring clarity and credibility in a manner that otherwise would have been impossible to communicate. I wish I did know where she is a Chaplain, as hearing her speak would be an experience.<br />Unconditionally recommended.d she has written a very powerful, and at times unnerving book. It is not in need of an editor, this is a very tough life served up ice cold and in your face. And as to the details she includes, they bring clarity and credibility in a manner that otherwise would have been impossible to communicate. I wish I did know where she is a Chaplain, as hearing her speak would be an experience.<br />Unconditionally recommended.	2000-10-17
2247550:US	53047425	R1Y435Z1XRV306	039595617X	203214031	Human Voices	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The TRUTHusually	Ms. Fitzgerald actually did work for the BBC during WWII, and while there was at least one annoying trait, I found the book to be her wittiest I have read. My complaint has to do with the use of acronyms; if you worked at the BBC this will not be an issue. But when used liberally, in a compact novel that defines how she writes, there is little time to learn them. \\"CJ get me AJ the SECDEF, RJ the SECTRES, ASAP, for a get together at MOJ, PDQ...OK? The PPA, and 2 JPA'S, should attend as well.\\" Usually this sort of banter is reserved for a Tom Clancy Novel.<br />The book ended with a great bang like many of her works, but this time we are not left wondering if the book we are holding is a few pages short. There still is more to unfold for some central characters, but this time the reader decides whether or not to pursue a continuance.<br />The TRUTH is the mission the BBC is on. To broadcast this and nothing else, not even speeches by The King that have been mended to delete his stutter. However in one of the funniest passages of the book, a French General feels compelled to share the \\"truth\\" with England and the English he so loves. Fortunately for both country and citizens alike, and to the amusement of the PM, he had the plugs pulled upon him.<br />Since Ms. Fitzgerald did work at the BBC, it offers an additional avenue for thought. Simply stated, how much is true, how many of these people actually lived, and how much was pure fiction. It is a tribute to her writing that the reader is unsure. By writing as she has, whether in a complimentary manner, or unflattering, I doubt some of the subjects would recognize themselves.<br />Another novel, without repetition, that demonstrates the vast skill this woman commanded.	2000-10-13
2248093:US	53047425	R1OFB6SOSAS0XZ	039590871X	852870338	The Beginning of Spring	Books	5	26	29	N	N	A question	Did your copy have 187 pages? If it had more, I would very much like to know how your version finishes. I, and others have commented on how Ms. Fitzgerald leaves a certain ambiguity at the end of some of her works. She invites her readers to finish the story based on what she has shared, or the reader has understood. This time around, I first felt I was reading a work like Dickens' unfinished, \\"The Mystery Of Edwin Drood\\". However this time it was a bit abrupt, a door opens, the reader pops their head in, and, she decapitates the reader with efficiency that Dr. Guillotine would have admired.<br />This is the fifth of her nine novels I have read, and it will be difficult to top this work. Everything I have read has been excellent, so the pleasure of reading her work is just a matter of degree. The complaint as stated at the beginning is more frustration than anything else. So much appears to be shared with the reader, that ultimately deception is far to mild a word, and then when you think the puzzle is complete; she adds another thousand potential pieces by bringing the story to an abrupt halt.<br />But the story really is quite complete. After you read what she has written a logical explanation follows. She sets the process in motion, steps back, and knows the reader will continue to follow her lead. She pulls the strings of a reader like twine on a top. Once pulled she can step back, the top continues to spin. She is as manipulative as any writer I have had the pleasure to read, she also respects her readers with the presumption they will read what she gives them, and though left wanting more, will be able to put their own finish to what she has written.<br />I cannot use any names, as it would ruin the piece. She produces one character that is such a brilliant fraud, that when his actions come to be known, his victims are left with mouths agape when they should be throttling him. As she has done in other works, she has children that are well beyond precocious, and other players that the reader is routinely lead to underrate.<br />Ms. Penelope Fitzgerald was a great discovery for me, as I knew nothing of her or her work. She started writing late in life, and sadly died earlier this year. The collective work she has left behind, is as good a written legacy any writer could have left, for all who love to read.d other players that the reader is routinely lead to underrate.<br />Ms. Penelope Fitzgerald was a great discovery for me, as I knew nothing of her or her work. She started writing late in life, and sadly died earlier this year. The collective work she has left behind, is as good a written legacy any writer could have left, for all who love to read.	2000-10-13
2251108:US	53047425	R3TCDAD7V3OXQJ	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	4	16	18	N	N	I dont say I wont Fred	That declarative double negative is about as definitive as the various parts of this story ever seem to be. When I reviewed \\"The Blue Flower\\" I said Ms. Fitzgerald didn't hand the story to you. In \\"The Gate Of Angels\\" I'm still trying to decide what the reader was supposed to find, what resolution we were supposed to arrive at. One Commercial Review suggested the end was left for us to decide, and while that may sound like an easy out from a wraith like ending, it is quite reasonable.<br />Ms. Fitzgerald is meticulous in what she writes, or perhaps what she only implies in this story. A portion of the story centers on debating, with the participants arguing that position which they personally do not believe. Good deeds are punished, perception though erroneous, too is punished, and when one character falls ill and while being helped exclaims \\"Surely it can't be...?\\" again it is a negative, not because the help is proffered, but because of the makeup of the individual who has walked on the grass.<br />I believe as with \\"The Bookshop\\" Ms. Fitzgerald unfolds her story much as it would happen were it true. Sometimes we fear a confrontation, only to find it existed in our minds only. Family that we feel we should know better than all others can surprise and shock. Her books are not all neatly tied up with contrivance like most, not everything is resolved, mistakes and wrongs remain, and all is not fixed.<br />For anyone who has not yet had the pleasure of reading one of this lady's works, a clarification is important. Comparing anything she writes to commercial supermarket checkout romance novels is patently absurd. This Authoress writes at a level that is universally admired by her peers and Professional Critics alike. To make the earlier comparison of her work can be described most charitably, by hoping that someone who never opened one of this lady's books made the comment. Were this to appear at the cinema it would be a stretch to get much past PG. This lady is a writer of distinction, not a purveyor of mindless trash.ter of distinction, not a purveyor of mindless trash.	2000-10-11
2252007:US	53047425	R1J0QF52QQFQVC	0395956196	411049820	The Golden Child	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Im sorry she waited until 69	This lady was truly an amazing writer. She started her career at the age of 69, and happily produced a good-sized body of work. \\"The Golden Child\\" is the third work of hers that I have read. It's a wonderful book, as I have yet to read anything other from her pen, but it is as different from the other two, as they are from each other.<br />\\"The Bookshop\\" was quite serious, \\"The Blue Flower\\" a wonderful historic piece during the period of Goethe's Germany, and now this work which demonstrates her unconstrained wit. She still includes subtle bits of humor, but much is laugh out loud funny. Granted some is a bit dark, but as another reviewer mentioned, it is very \\"English\\" as in, \\"oh...that, well yes, bullet wound you see, no bother, terribly sorry about the carpet\\". That line is not specifically in the book, but I hope it gives an idea of the fun within \\"The Golden Child\\".<br />The story is populated with great characters; including two of the best curmudgeons I have enjoyed reading. At one point she goes well onto a limb with a performance by one of the Museum's top executives, who is called upon to \\"lecture\\" about that which he knows little of. The performance approaches Monty Python humor.<br />A third book, and a third great read. I look forward to seeing how many other genres she must have handled so well.	2000-10-10
2253196:US	53047425	R2EUU3A6SSY53V	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	40	45	N	N	She doesnt hand this one to you	&quot;I have remained true to my deepest convictions, I mean to the courage of those who are born to be defeated, the weaknesses of the strong, and the tragedy of misunderstandings and missed opportunities, which I have done my best to treat as comedy, for otherwise how can we manage to bear it?&quot;<br />The quote above appeared in a story about Penelope Fitzgerald written just after her death. The quote and the ideas it states appear to be very appropriate to \\"The Blue Flower\\". I have read two other works of hers \\"The Bookshop\\" and \\"The Golden Child\\". All three books share her wonderful style of writing, which she can modify to produce three very different books, all the while maintaining the quality of her writing, while demonstrating incredible range.<br />Of the three I have read this work is the one she makes you work the hardest for. The two previous books laid out their stories in comfortable, familiar settings, both in place and time. The books were constructed so the reader was able to follow a distinct story line. In the case of \\"The Blue Flower\\" the story, and her method of telling it leaves the reader to fill in the details necessary to make the story flow in a more conventional manner, to read more easily, more comfortably. For those who want all the details, all the motivation of the characters detailed and laid out with a beginning, middle, and end, this work may not rate as one of their favorite works.<br />This book was comparatively lengthy set side by side with the other books I have mentioned. The briefer works are very straightforward, and I commented when I wrote about \\"The Bookshop\\" that I was curious with what she would do with the added length. True to having been not only a brilliant and highly original Authoress, as the length of her work expanded, it became more complex, less apparent, but yet another phenomenal read.	2000-10-09
2253759:US	53047425	RA4X1E65Y8YCJ	0679414037	895159348	Sotheby's: The Inside Story	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Evidently greed kills the I.Q.	\\"The venerable Sotheby's auction house and its former chief executive pleaded guilty Thursday to fixing commission prices and fees with rival Christie's, admitting they had ripped off clients for years.  Sotheby's, which controls virtually the entire $4 billion worldwide auction market along with Christie's, admitted to an antitrust conspiracy uncovered during a three-year investigation by the Justice Department.  Former CEO Diana D. Brooks, the first woman to head a major auction house and one of the most powerful figures in the art world over the past decade, faces up to three years in federal prison when she is sentenced Jan. 5.\\"<br />The three paragraphs above were from last weekend's New York Times. If not bringing an end, it will close at least one chapter, and at least give collectors some period of time when they will be treated with respect and integrity. There have been several books about these auction houses and the way they conducted their businesses. Mr. Peter Watson published this book at the end of 1997; perhaps recent events will bring it back into print.<br />Mr. Watson's book sparked several stories including a feature on 60 minutes. This specific story relates how Sotheby's routinely broke international law as part of their day-to-day business. Many Countries wish to control art they feel is part of their heritage, and protect archeological sites from being destroyed for the pieces collectors will buy.<br />What struck me as I read this book and others on the topic, was the monumental arrogance of those who directed these crimes as a matter of company policy. Their arrogance seemed to stem from the value of what they traded in; they seem to behave as if they were a one of a kind treasure for which the laws did not apply. The only other flaw that matched their arrogance was their judgment. The painting that was illegally smuggled for sale in New York could have been sent legally!<br />A woman who may not have been popular with those who had to work for her, was nevertheless one of the more influential persons in the International Art World. Now at the age of 50, instead of enjoying decades of continued success, she will on January 5 head to a Federal Prison where she will stay for years. The saga is not yet over as she insists the Owner of Sotheby's was aware and condoned her actions. If that is the case, a very distinguished businessman will, as he has said, \\"diligently defend himself\\".<br />This book is not just about art. It is about the greed that allows individuals to conduct themselves without respect for the law, and the heritage of the Countries they blithely destroy. But it needs to be mentioned that without collectors willing to pay whatever the cost of admission to collecting is, are also as guilty as the purveyors. Sotheby's may have \\"laundered\\" art, and many buyers may believe they were buying items they had every right to buy. However after reading what I have, the illicit nature of the Art World is part of the appeal. It is at least part of what makes the genre of books involving the theft, the fraudulent reproduction of artwork, and associated crimes so appealing to readers.ork for her, was nevertheless one of the more influential persons in the International Art World. Now at the age of 50, instead of enjoying decades of continued success, she will on January 5 head to a Federal Prison where she will stay for years. The saga is not yet over as she insists the Owner of Sotheby's was aware and condoned her actions. If that is the case, a very distinguished businessman will, as he has said, \\"diligently defend himself\\".<br />This book is not just about art. It is about the greed that allows individuals to conduct themselves without respect for the law, and the heritage of the Countries they blithely destroy. But it needs to be mentioned that without collectors willing to pay whatever the cost of admission to collecting is, are also as guilty as the purveyors. Sotheby's may have \\"laundered\\" art, and many buyers may believe they were buying items they had every right to buy. However after reading what I have, the illicit nature of the Art World is part of the appeal. It is at least part of what makes the genre of books involving the theft, the fraudulent reproduction of artwork, and associated crimes so appealing to readers.	2000-10-09
2256553:US	53047425	R2QN6IRQFD7F4U	0345428595	398079632	Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 5)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Any thought to where this is going?	James Luceno has contributed a superlative chapter into a saga that has stretched over 4 movies, and over 140 books in different forms. I have no idea to what degree the dozens of Authors collaborate on these written episodes, but their coordination of events, lack of contradiction, and seamless plot integration is almost uncanny. Many single volume tales contradict themselves, but George Lucas maintains an incredibly high standard, in each work, and the epic as a whole.<br />The genetic weapons of the Yuuzhan Vong continue to be introduced without repetition, and with a cleverness that sets the standard for original Science Fiction. As I read this work I kept thinking the visual display these stories would make on a screen, visual experiences we likely will never see. I suppose a long shot hope would be that the younger of the Lucas clan would continue their father's work someday.<br />When this all started in The New Hope, The Rebel Alliance was definitely on the razor's edge of defeat. This series that is certainly dark tragedy continues to escalate in violence, spread over rapidly increasing star systems, and few survive the experience. The New Republic is being lead by a council that gets more inept, or willfully negligent with each installment, The Jedi are not what we originally thought them to be, at least so far, and there is almost no cohesion except for the Yuuzhan Vong. These fractured alliances range from the galactic to the very personal.<br />We already know where Episode III will leave us, and now after Episode VI, this new series is as dark as anything we have seen. Chewbacca has been killed, Jedi too have died, and other main characters are sure to follow. What a Jedi is supposed to be gets more confusing each time, will Anakin once again step to the forefront, or will his more passive Brother influence events?<br />Whatever has brought this new enemy to the New Republic is also unveiling more of itself and its structure. Does anyone else find their reverence for natural biologic instruments as opposed to the mechanical, as conflicting with their self abuse, the mutilation of their own bodies as I do?<br />This series started out with a very negative bent, and has not changed its direction. While still early in the series, events will need to start unfolding soon, so that a recovery, however devastating can be executed.<br />Who will be left standing, in control, and the truth behind these new invaders is going to be a wild ride.r reverence for natural biologic instruments as opposed to the mechanical, as conflicting with their self abuse, the mutilation of their own bodies as I do?<br />This series started out with a very negative bent, and has not changed its direction. While still early in the series, events will need to start unfolding soon, so that a recovery, however devastating can be executed.<br />Who will be left standing, in control, and the truth behind these new invaders is going to be a wild ride.	2000-10-06
2258746:US	53047425	R7UJU7Q75D1S6	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	3	9	12	N	N	If you never have	This is the first work that I have read by Mr. Elmore Leonard. Prior to this the movie \\"Get Shorty\\" was the limit of my \\"Leonard\\" knowledge. The movie had some great dialogue and a menagerie of personalities.<br />There is no doubting the Author has a great ear for dialogue, and he creates unsavory characters that would normally be very difficult to believe, or would result in horrible clich&eacute;s. Mr. Leonard manages to make his players credible, even when placed in outrageous backdrops/situations.<br />I would certainly read another of his works based upon his reputation if not this particular book. It may be that legitimate Authors in this genre are being hurt by all the imitators, as I found most of the \\"no one appears to be who they are, or are they\\" situations, less than surprising. Dark Humor requires an extremely delicate touch. I'm not sure any Author can pull this off with Genocide, even when the Genocide is one that was given little attention for obvious and disheartening reasons. There is a point where using an outrageous human behavior just does not work, some subjects are better left alone.<br />The man can write, I just feel the limits of how far you can push a given event, went beyond a point that any quality of writing could present/manage well. Dark Humor can be funny; can make you laugh while asking yourself why, but this didn't work for me.	2000-10-05
2261118:US	53047425	RQA3OH2YVRJYQ	0395869463	540961512	The Bookshop	Books	5	10	12	N	N	True to day to day life	Many have commented on how brief this work is. There is no arguing the point, as \\"The Bookshop\\" is brief as defined by the pages it occupies. Ms. Fitzgerald also writes concisely, however she conveys as much or more than many who would take two or three times the length of this work to tell the same story. The result would be no better; nothing more would have been related, and the reader would have just consumed more time.<br />The events in the story come to the reader as they affect the central character. We are not privy to every conversation between other characters, nor do we witness their every thought, their every action. Just as we do day to day, we receive and react to information and events, as we are made aware of them. We share the fears, the suspicions, and the insight Florence has, but that is where it ends. We are not taken away from her to hear the plans set in motion by others; we have little advantage over her in terms of information that we alone possess.<br />I think the book is brilliant because it tells a story the way any of us would have experienced the events if they had happened to us. Ms. Fitzgerald cuts away anything that is remotely extraneous, but what she leaves is beautifully compact and true to life.<br />I have just started her work \\"The Blue Flower\\" which is massive in comparison, should be interesting.	2000-10-03
2262257:US	53047425	RLB8TMJ462D87	0714834637	365564069	Vermeer: Colour Library (Phaidon Colour Library)	Books	5	18	26	N	N	These solve the problem and enhance the reading experience	There have been several historically based novels, as well as Biographies of noted artists in the last year. A common complaint has often been the lack of illustrations in general, and the very few color plates in particular. Full color plates are extremely expensive, and are often scarce in a work for that reason alone. Major books on an artists works can be extremely expensive, and almost prohibitively so, when what is desired is a companion reference to another book.<br />The volume I comment on here pertains to Vermeer as it makes books like \\"Girl With A Pearl Earring\\", \\"The Music Lesson\\", and \\"Girl In Hyacinth Blue\\" more enjoyable. This comment is not meant to detract from any of the works mentioned. These great reference works allow the reader to quickly find full color illustrations of the paintings mentioned in the books, together with additional information on the pieces themselves. These books add to the reading experience, they supplement, they do not replace.<br />There are dozens of these available on a variety of Artists. Caravaggio is another painter who has been written about extensively, and the books, even when they did have color plates, only a fraction of what was referred to in the book was shown. Often illustrations are offered in black and white, and while better than nothing, they are barely that, for these artists chose color, and to appreciate/understand their work, color is a prerequisite.<br />The alternative is either very expensive coffee table books, or handfuls of airline tickets to globe trot to the location of the works. The latter is certainly the best, but for just under $10.00, these are much more efficient.	2000-10-02
2263172:US	53047425	R2I7CRBMFIO9I1	0060975008	776004119	Gold Bug Variations	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Here are two possibilities	Firstly, contrary to a recent book that documented the trip that Einstein's Brain took cross-country, said brain is still functioning and is writing novels. Secondly, that whatever \\"intelligence\\" created this book, were it to be compared to IBM'S \\"Deep Blue\\" computer, would find the aforementioned blue computer is comparatively a silicon moron.<br />\\"The Gold Bug Variations\\" if the reviews are the reference point, is the best work that Mr. Richard Powers has written, as judged by his readers. For me this was one of the more astonishing pieces of literature I have read. I have one more book that I have yet to experience, but while I dare say nothing can top this I would be thrilled were he to surpass what his talents produced here.<br />I do not believe he has received the attention that is his due as an Author, neither by those who hand out awards, nor does he seem to be widely read. In the past I have stated this could be that his work was an acquired taste. That is not only a comment I wish to retract, but also to label as tentative at best, and cowardly at worst. The subjects this man uses as the frameworks for his dazzling stories are difficult, they are extremely complex, they are intimidating, and in my unmitigated opinion require an activity that most of what appears as best selling books require none of, and that is thought.<br />An arrogant statement? nonsense. I read my fair share of entertainment, light reading, the proverbial \\"quick read\\", but I do not mistake these for literature that will be read a century or more from now. Powers' command of his subject, of general knowledge is remarkable. His prose is not not cocktail party throwaway banter passing for understanding, nor as some suggest are his books a variation on a theme. To the extent there can be a comparison, it is to show how much more the original could have been. For those of you who saw the movie \\"Amadeus\\" please recall the \\"trifle\\" that the Emperor botched, and Salieri wrote. Mozart then sat and improvised \\"variations\\" that did not so much build on the original as lay waste to it and then assemble what the original composer could only recognize, only envy, but never create. Knowing and understanding are distant relations at best, that the Author can bring a degree of insight to these subjects to anyone with an inquiring mind, is one of his many talents.<br />This time around the Author is doing variations on the basis of life as we do not understand it, or how some mistakenly believe they do.<br />\\"Ressler knew how incalculably unlikely it was that a molecular duplication trick could hit upon a structure complex enough to probe its own improbability...\\"<br />The \\"duplication trick\\" is the activity that DNA performs, a function is has been performing for about 3 billion years, a trick we still know little about, dangerously little. Powers almost seems to predict the future with the statements or queries he offers of what is to come. This was written over a decade ago, however the \\"mapping\\" of the Human Genome was noted at a White House ceremony only weeks ago. And 2 weeks ago on the cover of The New York Times we were given a glimpse of what this knowledge could mean to us as a race. A \\"performance artist\\" together with some who only have the physical skills and not the requisite intelligence to ask, whether we should, rather just do it because we can, produced a rabbit. Not your typical Easter Bunny this fella. You see by playing with Nature, by manipulating the gene that makes a certain Jellyfish glow in the dark, this \\"artist\\" now has a funny bunny that glows bright green in the dark when under \\"black light\\".  No longer limited to Rock Posters that glow when that deep purple is turned on as a light, now we have a living creature manipulated for absolutely no reason other than one person had the money, and the other folks the means, and neither were encumbered by judgment.<br />Harmless? Sorry, it is many things, but harmless it is not.<br />It is aperfect example of what this book tries to teach, not the only issue, but I believe the main point. As a species we do, once we can, to date we have been comparatively lucky. The splitting of the Atom allowed for one display that like the soldier who says, \\"I am not afraid\\" prior to a battle, is a person you want to be far from when the battle begins. The same can be said for those who were not frightened at some level when they witnessed what they unleashed, not what they completely understood, just what they could do.<br />This man's work is extraordinary for the level of competence with which he shares it, the relevance it has even though \\"only\\" a novel, and finally for the eerie prescience that Mr. Powers appears to have. No one is this lucky.<br />He is not the first to be under appreciated in his time, and I have no desire that this continue. Even if his work remains comparatively unknown when matched against the sales of the most recent stream of courtroom boredom, he is in good company. There was a time when another artist could not give away his work, and later, his \\"Portrait Of Dr. Gachet\\" when last made available brought $82.5 million dollars.<br />This time I hope the genius, the original thinking, the daring, and the courage, are recognized now. An Author he is, but he is also oh so much more.perfect example of what this book tries to teach, not the only issue, but I believe the main point. As a species we do, once we can, to date we have been comparatively lucky. The splitting of the Atom allowed for one display that like the soldier who says, \\"I am not afraid\\" prior to a battle, is a person you want to be far from when the battle begins. The same can be said for those who were not frightened at some level when they witnessed what they unleashed, not what they completely understood, just what they could do.<br />This man's work is extraordinary for the level of competence with which he shares it, the relevance it has even though \\"only\\" a novel, and finally for the eerie prescience that Mr. Powers appears to have. No one is this lucky.<br />He is not the first to be under appreciated in his time, and I have no desire that this continue. Even if his work remains comparatively unknown when matched against the sales of the most recent stream of courtroom boredom, he is in good company. There was a time when another artist could not give away his work, and later, his \\"Portrait Of Dr. Gachet\\" when last made available brought $82.5 million dollars.<br />This time I hope the genius, the original thinking, the daring, and the courage, are recognized now. An Author he is, but he is also oh so much more.	2000-10-02
2269054:US	53047425	R2I3T1UISPGBUB	0802116728	555805000	Artemisia: A Novel	Books	5	58	60	N	N	History, Novel, or Hybrid, Very Well Done	When the Authoress learns Latin and Italian as by-products of her research, the result should be special, and in the case of Artemisia, the result is very special. I don't understand how this could have been marketed anywhere as a Biography, Ms. Lapierre is very clear prior to the start of her work, and in over 60 pages of some of the best notes I have ever read, that she made the decision to tell this as a story, not pure History. A Biography whether authorized or not, is always subject to editorial, selective use of research materials, or in the case of some writers who should write for tabloids, deliberate distortions, selective use of facts, or not understanding the difference between fact and fiction. When the notes are read, Ms. Lapierre appears to have been so diligent as to facts, sources, and suppositions; it is tempting to think of this as a Historical work.<br />The Protagonist is an amazing study. A Genius in art who was officially affirmed as such during a time when Women were never considered as much more than property. A courageous woman, who tempted a range of horrors by demanding the corrupt legal system deliver her justice. Here was a woman who challenged the Catholic Church, and some of its more unsavory historical despots, again to demand that the truth be known and the culprits punished. That she persisted is amazing, that she prevailed to the degree she did, astonishing.<br />This work brought to mind another strong, unconventional woman of influence, who was brought to readers in book form under the title \\"Georgiana\\". I would suggest that anyone who enjoyed the latter will find \\"Artemisia\\" a very engaging read.<br />None of this would have been possible without the work of Ms. Lapierre. It would be better said, her extraordinary work, as this is the book to read on Artemisia Gentileschi, if you choose only one. This work is readable without condescension; it is scholarly without being dense and pompous until rendered unreadable. The book is simply wonderful.<br />You need only to enjoy good writing to enjoy this book. If you are familiar with other artists of the period, more detail will be there for you, and Galileo makes an appearance as well.<br />Extremely good, deserves much more attention than the work has garnered thus far.mply wonderful.<br />You need only to enjoy good writing to enjoy this book. If you are familiar with other artists of the period, more detail will be there for you, and Galileo makes an appearance as well.<br />Extremely good, deserves much more attention than the work has garnered thus far.	2000-09-27
2270782:US	53047425	R2H5ZX3K30D55E	0375707700	713537321	Cabal: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	4	30	32	N	N	For now the tour of Italy is complete.	\\"Cabal\\" was the last of the Aurelio Zen mysteries that I had not read. Now that I have, I can state the body of work taken as a whole is great. As in any group of books some are stronger than others, but none will disappoint. About the only complaint I have is that some of the individual works could have been of greater length. Some were perfectly finished in their relatively brief form, but some like \\"Cabal\\", could have benefited from having more time to tell their story.<br />Mr. Dibdin is a great writer, and I have read all but one of his non \\"Aurelio\\" books, and they too are worthwhile. I have reviewed them all, so I will minimize general comments here. I read the books out of sequence, and while there were some references to previous books, there was nothing so fundamental that it detracted from whatever book I was reading. I actually started with \\"Blood Rain\\" which is the newest of Mr. Dibdin's works.<br />The series takes place all over Italy, and \\"Cabal\\" takes place primarily in Rome with the central event, taking place at The Vatican. In addition to the intrigue that often surrounds stories of this small Country, Mr. Dibdin adds the Knights Of Malta, The Cabal, and centuries old Families of Italy to this mystery. The contemporary world of Italian Fashion, Aurelio girlfriend's moonlighting, and Aurelio's temptations to a darker side when he feels he is loosing his girl, all make for fun reading, although I believe with more time the book could have developed more completely. There was a great deal happening in this book, and it feels as though it was compressed into its final size.<br />Mr. Dibdin is a great writer, and this series is without qualification reading time well spent. I hope you enjoy them as much as I have.	2000-09-25
2270841:US	53047425	R3FG7SLNY0G2HD	0312203330	392150924	Leonardo: The First Scientist	Books	3	26	30	N	N	Leonardo did this, saw this, noted this, thought this, but..	I have previously enjoyed the writing of Mr. Michael White in the Biography he penned of \\"Isaac Newton The Last Sorcerer\\". Despite contemporary connotations the word sorcerer may bring to mind, the book was very well done. Mr. White is very honest from page 1 as to his admiration for Leonardo; he even shares a young dream of wanting to be the man he so admired. Candor can cut either way. The reader can read with a bit more skepticism, allowing for the Author's personal feelings, or read with less caution, justified by the Author having been so forthright at the outset.<br />Mr. White sets what some would argue is an impossible goal, he not only wants to establish that Leonardo was the first scientist, but that because his notebooks were largely lost for 200 hundred years following his death, his work was often repeated, and all History was held back because of this. While Mr. White writes an enjoyable narrative, I do not believe he makes his case.<br />Even with what remains of the 13,000 hand written pages that were Leonardo's notebooks, there are still vastly different interpretations of some of what he might, or might not have done. That he chose to write in a left handed mirror image style, that then was often encoded to protect his ideas, has not helped the understanding of this brilliant mind. Leonardo wrote extensively on a myriad of topics, and he did have thoughts, or perhaps insights about what he observed. There is no argument that his documentation of anatomy was extraordinary, and that his sketches of flying machines and parachutes resembled the inventions that came centuries later. But even if we do as the Author suggests, one almost has to have a separate definition for what a scientist does, so as to be able to apply the term, to Leonardo.<br />The Author \\"One must allow for a broader interpretation of what science means... To me, science is exploration, it is questioning, it is the application of imagination, it is analysis\\". The author also says that what Leonardo lacked in math skills, he made up for \\"with his genius as an artist\\".<br />Wanting something does not make it so.<br />His exceptional skills as an artist have no value as a replacement for what were his basic math skills at. A Scientist uses exacting rules laid down for performing observations and testing the soundness of conclusions, he is systematic he is accurate. And this is where Leonardo fails.<br />This is why the Author is forced to qualify, with few exceptions, that Leonardo's concepts were explored 200 years earlier by Villard de Honnecourt as to flying machines and parachutes, or that Leonardo predated Newton's third law of motion by 200 years except, he did not apply the concept to a range of situations, he was not studying conventional mechanics, and also he did NOT create a mathematical framework to support the idea. Said simply he observed birds, made an educated guess, and then designed flying machines that were absurd when pen was put to paper. And the why of it is, for all his brilliance in a wide range of subjects, Leonardo was not a formerly educated man, he was not possessed of math skills that even remotely approach what he would have required to prove the designs he had did not work, or to develop ones that did.<br />Leonardo was brilliant, he was a man with a mind that was unique, and he had a desire for knowledge so vast and wide, it at times prevented him from finishing much of what he was commissioned or promised to do.<br />A good Author, writing of one of the greatest minds in History, but a mind that nonetheless must utilize those tools, and meet the benchmarks, not be excused from them, that science requires of any who participate.at what Leonardo lacked in math skills, he made up for \\"with his genius as an artist\\".<br />Wanting something does not make it so.<br />His exceptional skills as an artist have no value as a replacement for what were his basic math skills at. A Scientist uses exacting rules laid down for performing observations and testing the soundness of conclusions, he is systematic he is accurate. And this is where Leonardo fails.<br />This is why the Author is forced to qualify, with few exceptions, that Leonardo's concepts were explored 200 years earlier by Villard de Honnecourt as to flying machines and parachutes, or that Leonardo predated Newton's third law of motion by 200 years except, he did not apply the concept to a range of situations, he was not studying conventional mechanics, and also he did NOT create a mathematical framework to support the idea. Said simply he observed birds, made an educated guess, and then designed flying machines that were absurd when pen was put to paper. And the why of it is, for all his brilliance in a wide range of subjects, Leonardo was not a formerly educated man, he was not possessed of math skills that even remotely approach what he would have required to prove the designs he had did not work, or to develop ones that did.<br />Leonardo was brilliant, he was a man with a mind that was unique, and he had a desire for knowledge so vast and wide, it at times prevented him from finishing much of what he was commissioned or promised to do.<br />A good Author, writing of one of the greatest minds in History, but a mind that nonetheless must utilize those tools, and meet the benchmarks, not be excused from them, that science requires of any who participate.	2000-09-25
2276168:US	53047425	ROTYVN5S3JG46	0590520849	533805723	The Shattered Peace (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 10)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Change Of Pace	Lightsabers are arguably one of the finest inventions/adaptations that science fiction has created. It is also true that they can be used as weapons, but that is as a last resort. Physical confrontation, combat, is never preferable, defense is first, offensive use the last and most regrettable of options.<br />This 10th episode will not please action fans. In truth there is more of that brand of event in the preview that is included for episode 11 \\"The Deadly Hunter\\". The character that is introduced but not named is interesting, is this her first appearance, or not? Unfortunately again, a wait is required.<br />The irony of this series is that the premises by which the Jedi conduct themselves are often more consistent than other books, or even the films. In this book Jude Watson stays very close to the concepts of peace, restraint, patience, and control of anger. I enjoy a good saber fight as much as the next fan. Obi-Wan VS. Maul was a classic that will be hard to match, but the necessity of the fight was plain, there was no other opportunity, no alternative.<br />I did think the book was a bit slow, but put it in the perspective of THE JEDI Master Yoda the book is perfect. When has he used violence, when has he ever drawn a saber, does he even have one? These books are for all fans even though directed at younger readers. The messages they teach are positive, and as always it is Yoda who sets the mission, and whose \\"voice\\" guides the actions of his Knights.<br />There is more to these books than some give credit for, and there are those that will think I take them too seriously. However when reviewing what is published for the consumption of Children, these books surpass much of their competition. It is this age group that begins reading on their own. As always, due to the fact that Star Wars has transcended one generation to the next, the book also leaves common ground between those of us who were there when Episode IV opened, as well as those for whom Episode I was their start.<br />Not action packed, but fairly well done, and the teaser for the next looks very promising.was their start.<br />Not action packed, but fairly well done, and the teaser for the next looks very promising.	2000-09-21
2276887:US	53047425	R3HUPFY319LYVW	0877015929	343117152	Steinway	Books	5	10	14	N	N	One Example Of A Classic	What kind of \\"classics\\" do I love is a question I sometimes receive. The name was always primarily for my love of books, however it extends to many classes of design, architecture, music in many forms, and Frank Sinatra is particular. An additional example would be the Steinway Piano and the history of the Family who created it.<br />Unfortunately the cover of this book is not shown, for it also appears in poster form depicting the interior of Steinway Concert Grand. And even if it were not used by 95% of concert pianists, even if it did not create one sound, the design alone is gorgeous to gaze upon.<br />I do not play, and my knowledge of pianos does not extend very far past this book. But the work is so well done, neither do other readers of this book need to play or be technically inclined. The book does contain technical information that will be of interest to some more than others, but for anyone who enjoys History, the book is wonderful. And even if you are not technically inclined, many of the facts that document who and what is required to create just one of these instruments, is something that will fascinate any inquisitive reader.	2000-09-20
2277131:US	53047425	R18CENNCIPRYU5	0517147254	777907471	The Smithsonian Book of Books	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Just How Special Books Were	The contemporary books we buy today fill many categories, and while they may be special for a variety of reasons, their mass production that condemns them to a comparatively brief life, also is the cause of how visually dismal they are.<br />There are some small private presses that still produce books as artisans, some even completely by hand, but the product is often well beyond the budgets of all but affluent collectors. Reading a work by Dickens is undeniably a thrill, but even Dickens believed his books were enhanced with imagery, so artists were part of his books, fellow craftsmen he chose to compliment his tales.<br />This book by Michael Olmert is for people who love books for not just what they contain, but the manner in which they were presented. Mr. Olmert also provides a very readable history of books from long before Guttenberg printed his Bible, from a time when a book was done by hand, every letter, every stitch.<br />This book presents some of the greatest rarities that have been preserved, so while you may covet a Book Of Hours, A Book Of Kells, or an illuminated page that rivals the art placed on canvas, your savings are safe. This is \\"The Smithsonian Book Of Books\\" so nobody can take any of these treasures home.<br />Mr. Olmert states, \\"The book is perhaps humankind's most powerful intellectual creation\\". A rather daring claim, but this book backs it well.	2000-09-20
2277376:US	53047425	R3IRFU00OM4VHD	0060977086	828883781	Prisoner's Dilemma	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Issei, Bhagavad Vita, Von Neumann, Game Theory	I have yet to read \\"The Gold Bug Variations\\" and one other of this Author's works. However of the 5 I have read, this work was as good or better than the previous 4. Richard Powers writes with an expertise that is well above the norm, and his writing requires some adjustment, as his style is dense, his knowledge just shy of unbelievable, and the structures of his stories rarely follow a straight line.<br />\\"Prisoner's Dilemma\\" is much more than the title of this book. John Von Neumann and others utilized the concept when using game theory in real life planning for the US Government, amongst other times, during the Cold War. This is not in the book, so I spoil nothing for the next reader.<br />\\"Issei, Nisei\\" and \\"Bhagavad Vita\\", and other bits I could not fit like Mickey Mouse, encompass facts they cannot be discussed, without at least hinting at what I think the plot is. I have included them as they are just of few of the dozens of concepts that Richard Powers has not only mastered, but also handles with such dexterity.<br />As with all his books only the Author knows what he intends to create, what he hopes the reader will take from the experience. My thoughts are not meant to contradict others, just express my own.<br />Ed Hobson Sr. is the story; his Family and others are the effects of his life experience. Mr. Powers is always playing with life's bigger questions, and under his pen they become even larger and more complex. For me the reference to Cornell was the key, the conclusions drawn from the book thereafter would make for great debate. The story is about evil, how we as individuals, and as the collective that is our race, deal with our actions and their results.<br />The Protagonist is constantly compressing all he can into the present, whether the receiver is his own mind or that of his Wife And Children. The refrain of do what you can now, do what you can while you can, ties neatly into the dilemma that is the heart of the Prisoner's Dilemma, not as a book title but as game theory.<br />I place my wallet on the table and challenge you to do the same. The proposition is that whoever has the least amount of funds gets all their opponent has, which is at least double what the winner started with. Play the scenario out as it was done in the book, and your initial decision to play or to refuse might surprise you. And therein lies the dilemma, the choices we make, the faith we place in other's choices, and what actually transpires or results is, I believe, what at least a good part of this characteristic wild ride that is a Powers work, is about.<br />Your understanding may be completely different, and no less valid. His writing is an acquired taste, but once done becomes an addiction.ok title but as game theory.<br />I place my wallet on the table and challenge you to do the same. The proposition is that whoever has the least amount of funds gets all their opponent has, which is at least double what the winner started with. Play the scenario out as it was done in the book, and your initial decision to play or to refuse might surprise you. And therein lies the dilemma, the choices we make, the faith we place in other's choices, and what actually transpires or results is, I believe, what at least a good part of this characteristic wild ride that is a Powers work, is about.<br />Your understanding may be completely different, and no less valid. His writing is an acquired taste, but once done becomes an addiction.	2000-09-20
2277689:US	53047425	ROBHUTXZ4067U	0679452338	271010039	Wry Martinis	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Someone wicked this way comes.	I found a good illustration of Christopher Buckley's sense of humor while  reading of one of the ocean crossings that he had taken with his Father.  Buckley the Elder routinely sailed an ocean every 5 years or so, and his  Son was often part of the crew. All the ship's members had tasks, and on  this trip Christopher was in charge of bringing along projects for fun and  diversion during the extended voyage. The one I will remember was the model  he brought for the group to construct, of course a ship, and for him it  could be no other, The Titanic.<br />His is not low brow cheap shot humor,  although you may be surprised by how inept some other Authors are when  engaging him in written debate. He writes within this book on a variety of  subjects guaranteed to make you laugh, and for those that take themselves,  or a given subject too seriously, he will annoy you. Even if the latter  group is the one you find yourself in, if only to yourself, you still  cannot deny the wit, and the intellect that is behind his thoughts.<br />So if  The Pope appearing on Oprah selling his new book intrigues you, or perhaps  Johnnie Cochran writing a letter of recommendation for the squeezed fruit  who was his client piques your interest, this read is for you. If the two  topics I mention do not suffice, there is always his written feud with Tom  Clancy, satire on Star Trek, or perhaps the \\"How I went 9 G's in an F-16  and Only Threw Up Five Times\\", there is something here that will cause you  great pain in your sides, as he is the cause of pain for his adversaries in  their nether regions.<br />The stories I mentioned are a tiny fraction of what  awaits the reader, for I have not touched upon the selling of Lenin's  embalmed corpse.<br />Buckley the Younger is wonderful, or as the Author Tom  Wolfe states \\"Fifty years ago the 3 funniest writers in the English  language were named Shaw, Mencken and Muggeridge....today they're named  Thompson, O'Rourke, and Christopher Buckley...\\"<br />If you have not tried this  man's work, this is a great place to start.If you have not tried this  man's work, this is a great place to start.	2000-09-19
2277956:US	53047425	R24VBBYYLW60SZ	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Complimenting the reader with a subtle pen	It is difficult not to think of Ismail Merchant, Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, and James Ivory when reading this book. Merchant Ivory's films are consistently  exceptional in there own right, while never dismembering the book you may  have so enjoyed. But to think this is anything less than a brilliant piece  of writing would be unfair, and to suggest this is a ready-made screenplay  is absurd.<br />Mr. Ishiguro is a magnificent writer. He need not be shrill to  make a point, nor profane to shock or maintain the reader's attention. The  cadence of this novel is leisurely, and being such it produces widely  disparate understandings amongst readers. I enjoyed parts of all the 6  reviews I read, as I was not the only one who wasn't precisely sure when I  had found solid ground when reading this work. I believe if read a second  time the truth would be very apparent. That a second effort may be required  is yet another testament to the writer, and in no way insulting to the  reader.<br />The protagonist suffers painful events as a child. There is no  reasonable way they could not cause terrible damage, and then leave their  scars. Mr. Ishiguro explores this gently, just as the victim may not  overtly manifest outrageous behavior. His careful treatment of Christopher  is not vague or deficient, it reads as being appropriate, and exposes the  results of his traumas with the time and care they need.<br />\\"Threads\\" are  often used to describe the storyline of a work. In many books I would  suggest they are more like mooring ropes. In this book threads is being  generous, for the first person narrative is not written deceptively, but  can be construed differently by a group of readers. I think this is great.  It's quite rare to read a contemporary work that does not hammer away at a  tired theme, disclose the end when the prologue has barely been passed, or  just insult the reader by presuming we are encephalitic illiterates. (Not  trying to showboat, just loved the sound of those two words)<br />It took what  was probably the most jarring event to finally convince me I wasn't lost.  And the event was much closer to the end than the start. What is real, and  what is not will be decided by how carefully you read, and how cautious you  are with the limitations of first person narrative. It is not a method that  allows for much independent verification. However, I never felt frustrated,  as the writer is so good and the read so enjoyable.<br />I wish I could say  more, but I would ruin what the book will be for you. I can say you will  enjoy the read immensely.wo words)<br />It took what  was probably the most jarring event to finally convince me I wasn't lost.  And the event was much closer to the end than the start. What is real, and  what is not will be decided by how carefully you read, and how cautious you  are with the limitations of first person narrative. It is not a method that  allows for much independent verification. However, I never felt frustrated,  as the writer is so good and the read so enjoyable.<br />I wish I could say  more, but I would ruin what the book will be for you. I can say you will  enjoy the read immensely.	2000-09-19
2277967:US	53047425	R5EGKN2KHCK5Q	0393029417	948226107	Great Contemporaries (Early Works of Winston Churchill)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Everything was on a grand scale.	There is very little about Sir Churchill that can be considered routine, average, or some standard he can be compared to. Everything he did was  generally on a scale that helped to create the Legend he has become, and  that he will remain. Even when he erred, it generally was not minor,  however rare, but on balance we do not, nor will we have his kind again. He  loved his Country, and he loved the US, for he was 50% American, so that  even in Washington D.C. today, a statue of him striding forward has one  foot on British, and one on American soil.<br />His life was long, stretching  past the 90-year mark, allowing him ample time to write and give speeches,  which are routinely quoted to this day. He was a master at both  disciplines, with his writing awarded the Nobel Prize For Literature in  1953.<br />\\"Great Contemporaries\\" is a book that is more about the men and  women he knew than about the Author. He is evident throughout the read, as  the impressions of these people of History are his. The 21 profiles he  shares with the reader are incredible in their range, and that they were  his \\"contemporaries\\" is one testament to the History he created and was a  part of.<br />Contemporary people of fame are often identifiable by a first or  last name alone. However as we live in an age where you can chat in real  time across the planet, fame does not require the same level of notoriety.  The fame is of a different character and caliber.<br />The Kaiser, Shaw,  Chamberlein, Hindenburg, Foch, Trotsky, these are only a fraction of the  essays this man of history will share. Too, there is Lawrence of Arabia who  requires a bit more than a last name, but it is not do to his renown,  rather the generic nature of the end of his sobriquet.<br />These  reminiscences are different than those of today's leaders, there was very  little distance between these people, they often met alone, and they did  not bring an array of lackeys, translators, and gadflies.<br />A tremendous  sweep of one man's impressions of people whose actions resonate to this  day, and in all likelihood will not cease.eep of one man's impressions of people whose actions resonate to this  day, and in all likelihood will not cease.	2000-09-19
2278358:US	53047425	R1JM8HBMBW2WF0	0312204094	184001758	Gain	Books	5	13	14	N	N	People want everything. Thats their problem.	I have not read all of the books that Mr. Powers has written. This is the  fourth, and while the writing is not as complex, with each subsequent  phrase attempting to make its predecessor seem inferior, he has created a  book that begins with two stories widely separated in time and brings them  together with final pages that are emotionally devastating.<br />The wealth of  knowledge this Author is known for is again evident in \\"Gain\\". The  difference this time is that he shows an understanding of the human  condition, its pain and its suffering as though he experiences the trauma  as he writes. He writes about an experience we all will face, and it reads  as though it is documented fact, not some mystic farce substituted for weak  writing that lacks the skill that Mr. Powers has. His writing does not read  as opinion, it feels as though you are reading the truth, that you are  being told by someone who knows, and not just an authority on the topic, an  articulate dandified product of academe, an erudite poser.<br />A man and his  wife arrive in Boston. Over a century later the son of another woman,  working across the river in Cambridge, will take the money from a legal  outcome that is a direct result of that first man's arrival, and likely set  in motion events that are orders of magnitude more powerful. It could be  argued that the moment the first man decided to emigrate, the countless  number of steps, the cascade of effects were irrevocably put in  motion.<br />This tale could be dressed up as a form of Chaos Theory, the  Butterfly in China whose delicate movements cause the East Coast of the US  to be flooded. Mr. Powers does not need a curtain that wrapped the city of  the Oz Wizard to conceal what he was unable to do. If Mr. powers were a  magician, he could conjure all that illusionists do. Rolling up his sleeves  would be meaningless, as he would require none.<br />Mr. Powers has  demonstrated he can write at any level of complexity, on subjects that only  token numbers of people can get their minds around. In this work he tells a  story that we all have heard countless times. However this is the first  time we have heard him tell it, and the similarities are almost nil. The  real world is not black and white, and neither is this writer's prose. The  quote that is the title of my comments is spoken at a moment, and by a  person that will demonstrate how powerful a simple statement can be. But  this is a Richard Powers' book, where even a simple declarative sentence is  unbounded.<br />An incredible Author, and I have yet to read the book that  almost all reviewers say is his best.y  token numbers of people can get their minds around. In this work he tells a  story that we all have heard countless times. However this is the first  time we have heard him tell it, and the similarities are almost nil. The  real world is not black and white, and neither is this writer's prose. The  quote that is the title of my comments is spoken at a moment, and by a  person that will demonstrate how powerful a simple statement can be. But  this is a Richard Powers' book, where even a simple declarative sentence is  unbounded.<br />An incredible Author, and I have yet to read the book that  almost all reviewers say is his best.	2000-09-19
2279018:US	53047425	R2HB1BPPFGAEC	0385493479	364414432	Great Political Wit	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Should have been published prior to the election	Senator Robert Dole is known for many personal and professional  attributes. However, his having a sense of humor is not an item that would  have made it on to many lists. Mr. Dole always seemed quite serious, so  when I read his collection of bi-partisan political humor, he had both  collected and contributed to, I was extremely surprised.<br />The traditional  image of our elected officials is that they go after each other while  practicing the blood sport they call politics, the manner they govern the  country after a minority of its citizens bother to vote. The reality of  course is quite different, and this collection is brilliant with wit, and  not just of the political variety. Many of the comments in the book took  place long before anything other than politically correct generic humor  (which is almost an oxymoron) became the standard. The good natured jokes  shared by legends like Tip O'Neil, Truman, Churchill, Kennedy, and a good  cross section of 20th politicians and those who reported on their every  move, were given and taken in stride. What really struck me was how well  these elected officials get along when the press is not watching, forcing  them to become various shades of gray.<br />Senator Robert Byrd who is  described as being a master of Roman History stated during a debate that  \\"If Cicero were alive today, he would oppose the Balanced Budget  Amendment\\". Senator Dole claims Senator Strom Thurmond, who has been in  office since President Andrew Jackson, \\"jumped up and said, I knew Cicero.  Cicero was a friend of mind. And I know he was in favor of a Balanced  Budget Amendment.\\"<br />I have stated in other reviews that I am a great  admirer of Sir Winston Churchill. Senator Dole quotes him several times in  the book, but this is one I had forgotten. In response to the concept that  \\"familiarity breeds contempt\\", Churchill responded, \\"without a certain  amount of familiarity we would breed nothing at all.\\"<br />A great read for  any and all parties, voters and non-voters alike.ties, voters and non-voters alike.	2000-09-18
2281977:US	53047425	R1WC3JEWP3TZGN	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Sure about turning off the light?	I think one good measure of a mystery is how early in the book you can make an educated guess about what the truth is. If the solution is apparent  too soon, bad mystery, the farther into the book you have to travel, can  indicate just how clever the writing has been. Wild guesses don't  count.<br />This is the first book I have read by Ms. Val Mcdermid, I will be  backtracking to her earlier work, and whatever comes next is an automatic  purchase. This lady writes an amazing story. Even though the book runs to  404 pages, you will be in a select group if the riddles are solved much  before the last several dozen pages. And if it is the last dozen, don't  worry, this Authoress is that good at not showing her hand, her complete  hand until the very end.<br />The book is set in a contemporary time frame,  but the isolated nature of where the story unfolds makes the reader feel as  though it's the 19th and not the 20th Century. Ms. Mcdermid also plays with  what may or may not actually be true. From the very beginning, even prior  to the start of the story, the reader is getting set up, or perhaps  misdirected, for the Author's voice and the voice of the Author in the tale  share a line that is indistinct at best. I thought it very clever, and it  added an interesting element that stayed at the back of my mind throughout  the work.<br />I finished the book on a very stormy night, which could have  been taken directly from the book. The storm had driven my 8-year-old son  into the room. When I finished, Ms. Mcdermid had succeeded in scaring the  blazes from me. I suggested my son might want to keep the light on for a  bit. To my disappointment he said no.	2000-09-15
2284189:US	53047425	R2HX04PPG0JNXJ	0670862231	197392062	Portrait of Dr. Gachet : The Story of a Van Gogh Masterpiece : Modernism, Money, Politics, Collectors, Dealers, Taste, Greed, and Loss	Books	4	22	25	N	N	From $0 To $82,500,000	While reading about the history of the Sotheby's and Christie's Auction  Houses the story of the highest priced paid for a painting at auction was  quite a tale. I qualify my comment with an auction sale, as the possibility  exists that somewhere an individual may have spent more. Based on what I  have read I doubt it, for even with all the deception in the art world,  secrets are not particularly well kept.<br />Ms. Cynthia Saltzman has written  a scholarly work that is readable by anyone who enjoys well-written  history, or even a novel. The course this painting has taken in a bit more  than 110 years is as extraordinary as the price paid when it was last  sold.<br />Vincent Van Gogh was a troubled man who managed to produce a rather  large body or work before tragically taking his own life. There are dozens  of speculations as to the manner of disease he suffered, but suffer he did.  Van Gogh did not live to see any appreciation of his art, and even for  years after his death his work was not of any renown nor sought after. This  final portrait that he was to paint did not sell for 7 years after his  death, and even then the purchase price was $58 in US currency.<br />Over the  next 14 years the painting would again change hands 4 more times, and with  the last of the 4 sales became a museum piece for the first time. The  locale was Frankfurt, the year 1911, and the price $3861. It was this last  move that was to place this painting and hundreds of others into a  collection of Art deemed \\"degenerate\\" by the Nazis of Hitler's Germany. The  piece also was in the possession of Herman Goering briefly. Fortunately for  the painting it was sold outside of Germany, where a new owner would hold  it for the next 52 years. The Germans may have thought it degenerate for  propaganda purposes, but money was another matter. While the painting was  confiscated, when sold in 1938 the passing 17 years brought the value to  $20,000.<br />Until the next and final sale the painting would be hung in a  home in New York City, the property of private collectors. When the \\"crazy  years\\" of the art market arrived impressionist work was in great demand,  much of which was generated from Japan. For in 1995 Mr. Saito paid $82.5  million, and then 2 days later another $78.5 million was spent by the same  man on a Renoir. What has happened since then really has to be read as it  would make a great novel were it fiction.<br />Ms. Saltzman has done an  amazing job of documentary work, and added the history of the times  surrounding the work, as well as those who sought the piece, and the  personalities of those who came in contact with, or were the temporary  custodians of the work, \\"The Gachet\\".<br />A wonderful read for anyone who  enjoys a good story written with consummate skill and style.would be hung in a  home in New York City, the property of private collectors. When the \\"crazy  years\\" of the art market arrived impressionist work was in great demand,  much of which was generated from Japan. For in 1995 Mr. Saito paid $82.5  million, and then 2 days later another $78.5 million was spent by the same  man on a Renoir. What has happened since then really has to be read as it  would make a great novel were it fiction.<br />Ms. Saltzman has done an  amazing job of documentary work, and added the history of the times  surrounding the work, as well as those who sought the piece, and the  personalities of those who came in contact with, or were the temporary  custodians of the work, \\"The Gachet\\".<br />A wonderful read for anyone who  enjoys a good story written with consummate skill and style.	2000-09-14
2287325:US	53047425	RT1MC6WOVLDEP	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	4	17	23	N	N	A very clever, intricate tale	David Mitchell is another great talent that can be added to the group of  first time Authors, who if they can maintain the excellence and originality  of their first book, are destined for long, distinguished careers.<br />You  and I have read books that were made of stories that interlocked, each  story complete and seamlessly transitioning from one's end to the beginning  of the next. There are also great books like, \\"An Instance of the  Fingerpost\\" by Iain Pears, that have different voices recount the same  series of events, as they perceived them. \\"Ghostwritten\\" is entirely  different, it can only stand in its entirety, and its nine stories in ten  parts equal one great tale.<br />The 9 elements of the book range from the  familiar, to what appear to be historically based fiction, and then on to  science that I believe to be well into the future. The interesting point  here is the style the Author uses to bring these storylines together. It is  not a single event viewed from many perspectives. The common cue that ties  one part to another can be an event, an object, or something a bit more  exotic in a spiritual/life form capacity. Also very well done is the  Author's placement of the cues, the points at which he ties one element to  another. The stories do not unwind in a linear sequence, nor are the common  cues based on a formula, by doing this he keeps the reader's attention to  detail, anything less and you will miss some of the fun.<br />The book is very  well done, was a very different read, however it was not vague, nor  obscure, or surreal. There are times when a new style of story too often  means dense complicated prose that can cause some readers to not try the  new Author. This is absolutely not the case with \\"Ghostwritten\\". This is  different and accessible, and I believe will appeal to a wide range of  readers.<br />There was only one reason I stopped short of 5 stars, and it had  nothing to do with the caliber of writing. There was an event that by  definition is very disturbing and uncomfortable to read. It was made even  more grotesque by the language used. The vile language, in my opinion, was  unnecessary. It was used to describe an event that if the reader was not  appalled by it taking place, the reader is one who cannot be shocked by  anything.<br />With the one exception a very fine work and debut.by  definition is very disturbing and uncomfortable to read. It was made even  more grotesque by the language used. The vile language, in my opinion, was  unnecessary. It was used to describe an event that if the reader was not  appalled by it taking place, the reader is one who cannot be shocked by  anything.<br />With the one exception a very fine work and debut.	2000-09-11
2294260:US	53047425	R28EK7XYNIANO	006097611X	756206777	Operation Wandering Soul	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Live Revelation Relief: Apocalypse Aid.	This is the third book by Mr. Powers I have read recently, the options I have at this point are to either, let my mind heal before starting another  of his works, or read only a few pages a day. I cannot begin to imagine  where he harvests these ideas, or by what type of neural net hat trick he  uses to store them, so they can be recalled in the sequencing he desires.  He must remember everything his five senses have ever identified without  any detail filtered, none at all.<br />The menagerie that is his Pediatric  Ward, the holding pen for the \\"Pedes\\" makes George Lucas's Cantina at Mos  Eisley look like the local coffee shop. And while there is no music there  is \\"the Rapparition\\" who not only rhymes but also when he moves, he,  \\"concocts this elaborate triple-level, supersyncopated, free-falling  gymnastic routine\\". And that's about as slow and mellow as this book ever  gets.<br />This is the most emotional book of his I have read. Previous works  held the possibility of futures that were none too pleasant, and pasts that  may have stung, but this time the tale is in real time. The assault is  constant, no quarter given. The Pied Piper of Hamelin fame makes his  appearance, but compared to the hopelessness that Dr. Kraft presides over,  the Piper is Opera Buffa, comedic relief. The 13th century tale of terror  first becomes a light story, and then a play with the real world's broken  children of Angel City playing their fictional counterparts. No method  acting just be your broken self.<br />Richard Powers portrays a world that  deserves nothing but condemnation. A world where the Children would be  better off were they lead away rather than live the lives they have. Adults  have done nothing but inflict damage, including our 5th year resident Dr.  Kraft.<br />He supplies this book with questions for further study at the end  of a chapter, and then a literal word-by-word definition of the story of  Peter Pan. And yes you guessed it, a child whose body is ten times its age  in appearance while maintaining the age appropriate size. A girl named Joy  who never experiences the feeling as she is gradually taken apart.<br />This  is as about as up close and personal to a Richard Powers nightmare as this  reader would like to get. I have no claim on a particularly vivid  imagination, but the Author drills down so vividly he could disturb the  victim of a coma.<br />A unique Author with a very unique mind.es its age  in appearance while maintaining the age appropriate size. A girl named Joy  who never experiences the feeling as she is gradually taken apart.<br />This  is as about as up close and personal to a Richard Powers nightmare as this  reader would like to get. I have no claim on a particularly vivid  imagination, but the Author drills down so vividly he could disturb the  victim of a coma.<br />A unique Author with a very unique mind.	2000-09-05
2295182:US	53047425	R2CE94027T2KMG	0767903269	863762746	The Informant: A True Story	Books	5	138	156	N	N	Fiction? You will wish it were so.	I read hundreds of books in a year, and this work is one of the best I  have  read in 2000. Kurt Eichenwald deserves an award for getting it  through the  attorneys and then to publication.<br />Eichenwald, a finalist  for the year 2000 Pulitzer and winner of other awards  for his writing, has  not only taken a riddle, wrapped in mystery, and shrouded by  an enigma,(a  nod to Winston Churchill) and made it readable, he has created a brilliant  book. He created a book that could stand as a work of Fiction and be a  novel of excellence, or be true to this bizarre story that strains  credibility so many times, and yet he manages to give every bit of credence  the reader needs to believe. Mike Wallace of 60 minutes couldn't have  dissected this tale with greater skill.<br />And if you think I jest about the  novel it would make, if 19th Century is your style, think Wilkie Collins,  or if your taste is more contemporary, perhaps Charles Palliser of Quincunx  fame. That is the type of labyrinthine thought that would be required to  conjure this story from thin air.<br />At the center of the story is what at  first seems to be an all-too-common  tale. American consumers have gotten a  great deal of exposure recently as to  how a company can, in the opinion of  The Justice Department, be detrimental  to the public welfare. I would  suggest there are issues that make bureaucratic  careers, and issues that  are literally participants in the lives of nearly  all of us, and they are  important.<br />Unless you treat eating as an extreme sport, you probably have  not snacked on any software lately, be it Microsoft, or even Apple. However  in the case that this book covers, this company is in your favorite  restaurant, your house, your kitchen, and before you continue, they are all  over what sits on the end of your fork, every meal, of every day. This book  involves a company that many will not recognize it is about the people who  have appointed their company &quot;Supermarket To The World&quot;. Now that  level of arrogance just begs the question of who are these people, and how  do they operate?<br />Archer Daniels Midland is responsible for many of those  ingredients you will find on the label of what you consume. Ingredients  like, oilseed products, emulsifiers, etc. They also produce flour for your  local pizzeria, and lysine for the folks who raise your food. In addition  they can produce political pressure proportionate to a company 50 times  their<br />size. And finally they have a Human Resource Department that hired  and almost handed the company over to an individual so bizarre, that in his  more lucid moments he fancies himself, Whitacre, Mark Whitacre. His  delusions  of grandeur as a secret agent would be absurd if not for the  role he was  playing as the critical person in the government's efforts to  take down ADM,  and some of their partners scattered across 5 continents.  In addition to  being the world's supermarket, ADM also developed those  skills necessary to  run illegal businesses on a global scale.<br />An  individual chooses to help the FBI gather evidence against the corrupt  company he works for, what could be simpler, how many novels have used the  same premise? Unfortunately for the 2 agents that put their careers on the  line, and spend years of their life working with this person, there was  nothing simple, they would have been pleased with complex. These two agents  got chaos in its human form, their &quot;informant&quot;.<br />All starts  well, and then an inconsistency appears, no problem. Later a reported fact  was not quite so factual, but whose memory is perfect? But then reality is  turned upside down. A lie is a lie, is a lie about a lie a  double  negative, making it a truth? Do you believe the person, his recorded  voice, the memo he wrote, or what he has told his attorney, or surely what  he  tells the U.S. Government's lawyers, perhaps a judge? And how is it  possible  for an Author to even attempt to put this episode of The Twilight  Zone in to  book form?<br />Eichenwald has done so, by creating something that  is not your typical read.  He breaks with convention without breaking or  even bending the truth. As the  Author stated, &quot;the reader is deceived  into believing fiction through the  true recitation of fact.''<br />Brilliant!  Period.mpt to put this episode of The Twilight  Zone in to  book form?<br />Eichenwald has done so, by creating something that  is not your typical read.  He breaks with convention without breaking or  even bending the truth. As the  Author stated, &quot;the reader is deceived  into believing fiction through the  true recitation of fact.''<br />Brilliant!  Period.	2000-09-05
2297075:US	53047425	R25R5XSWNJ0G0W	0316511390	939227109	Sotheby's: Bidding for Class	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The conversion of debris into dreams	The title of the review is from the prologue, which is worth the cost of the book on its own, unless you happened to attend or actually buy at the  Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis auction. The Author's scathing commentary on  those who bought virtually anything at that event are quick witted, very  funny, and pathetic. How else do you describe those who would spend  $211,500 for a $100 set of fake pearls, or how about a small cigar humidor  for $574,500, or perhaps the most ridiculous of all, which requires it's  own explanation.<br />One of Sotheby's staff found 11 tiny diamonds that had  fallen from a piece of jewelry; a fair price would have been about $550. As  you will learn, auction houses are nothing if not adept at being creative,  whether with their accounting, or what something actually sells for,  presuming it even has been sold to someone with a heartbeat. Well they took  these bits of nothing, arranged them in a letter \\"J\\" and someone who I hope  will never have any decision making power over my life, or anyone at  Amazon, paid $17,250 for something that Sotheby's could not even claim Mrs.  Onassis ever saw, touched, or knew they were hidden in the lining of a  jewelry box.<br />The Auctioneer could not keep a straight face when just the  irons from JFK'S golf clubs sold for $387,500 and the woods for $772,500.  As the Author noted it takes two bidders \\"to make a crazy price\\" and the  winning gentlemen in this case was Mr. Arnold Schwarzenegger. I would have  thought an extended family discount would have been in order.<br />The book is  a great read for the history of the auction business, and of Sotheby's and  Christie's in particular. The business they engage in has been for 250  years, \\"cultivating the paradox that rich people, at heart, are the  neediest people of all\\". While the owners of these houses take the money  seriously, even they speak of the contradiction that is at the heart of  their business, they go to person \\"A\\" and explain you must sell now, as the  market is at its peak for your object, and then pick up the other phone  line and explain to person \\"B\\" that the opportunity of a lifetime is at  hand.<br />Deception is a key to the process, no bids? pretend there are, this  is called taking bids from the \\"Chandelier\\". This of course is done until  the reserve is met, and some victim, i.e. client, thinks the bidding is  real, and starts offering his or her own money.<br />You may perhaps remember  those astronomical prices paid for impressionist paintings up until 1990.  They have become the symbol, along with Rockefeller Center and other  purchases, as examples of the Japanese economic bubble that exploded so  famously.  There were 20 Japanese buyers that spent from $22 million to  over $100 million during the art boom of 1984-1992. Seventeen of the same  twenty were to find themselves either in jail, bankrupt, or under \\"serious  investigation\\".<br />As to the \\"record\\" prices that were paid, Mr. Saito Ryoei  paid the \\"record\\" for van Gogh's \\"Portrait Of Dr. Gachet\\" at  $82,500,000.00. A few nights later, possibly feeling the pinch from such  extravagance, he paid the second highest number ever of $78,100,000.00 for  Renoir's \\"Au Moulin de la Galette\\". But can these be considered records  when both paintings were taken back in repossession?<br />Not to dwell, let's  skip to the third \\"highest\\" price ever paid. Mr. Alan Bond paid  $53,900,000.00 for van Gogh's \\"Irises\\", in 1989. Oops sorry, Sotheby's  actually financed half the purchase, giving Mr. Bond the incentive to bid  ever higher, which gave Sotheby's and even bigger commission as they take  their piece from the selling price, so the higher the better. And like the  paintings of his Japanese counterpart, this painting too was  repossessed.<br />One has to wonder how these people ever managed to make or  keep a dime. For how else does one explain a couple who paid (please sit  down) $29,900.00 for a small box that was alleged to hold a piece of  wedding cake of The Duke And Duchess of Windsor. How many decades before  the cake would vanish, perhaps it fossilized? The couple claimed they were  never going to open the box. The real question is, what difference would it  make?<br />The book is a great read, and for those who appeared foolish, they  have only themselves to blame together with the fact that the Auction  business is not one known for honesty, as Sotheby's found out when they  were recorded smuggling a painting, but that's another book.<br />There is no  question that if a person has the means they can spend as they like. At  some point I would suggest it would be rather difficult to look in the  mirror without feeling the fool. Much of the money spent at auctions is  thrown away not invested. And as far as utility, the inflating of an ego is  not much of an accomplishment, legacy, or a deed well done.edding cake of The Duke And Duchess of Windsor. How many decades before  the cake would vanish, perhaps it fossilized? The couple claimed they were  never going to open the box. The real question is, what difference would it  make?<br />The book is a great read, and for those who appeared foolish, they  have only themselves to blame together with the fact that the Auction  business is not one known for honesty, as Sotheby's found out when they  were recorded smuggling a painting, but that's another book.<br />There is no  question that if a person has the means they can spend as they like. At  some point I would suggest it would be rather difficult to look in the  mirror without feeling the fool. Much of the money spent at auctions is  thrown away not invested. And as far as utility, the inflating of an ego is  not much of an accomplishment, legacy, or a deed well done.	2000-09-03
2299043:US	53047425	R2ULLNJ4F1TO2H	0415920604	865473744	God and the Gun: The Church and Irish Terrorism	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Infinite Loop	Mr. Martin Dillon brings the history of the Irish \\"Troubles\\" as close as he can without the reader actually participating with him in his  interviews. The interviews he shares, together with the balanced personal  perspective he offers, presents the reader with one of the clearer  explanations of the conflict, the participants, and their motives, that I  have read. This book is of manageable length, for more detailed  documentation of the various political groups and their leaders; Mr.  Dillon's friend Mr. Timothy Patrick Coogan is the definitive  reference.<br />The most unusual aspect of the book were interviews he  conducted with Catholic Priests, and the role they are at times forced, at  gunpoint, under threat of death, to perform. There will be a knock at the  door; they will then be taken to a victim who has usually been brutalized,  and then given a few minutes to hear the man's final words prior to his  being executed. Add to this that there are times the victims are members of  the Priest's Church, and you have both a personal and an ecclesiastical  torture for these Priests. Ministers of the Protestant Faith, who attempt  to bring sanity to these conflicts, are relocated out of Ireland to stop  their interference and protect their safety.<br />On the other end of the  spectrum there are clergy on both sides whose conduct disqualifies them  from their roles as representatives of the Church, and places them in the  same column as the terrorists they support/protect.<br />When the results of  violence are shown in the news, the tendency is often to dehumanize the  individuals who perpetrate such violence. Mr. Dillon shows that on either  side of the conflict there are those that are truly depraved, they are  killers, and lovers of violence that would conduct themselves as they do  despite their location.<br />He also interviews men and woman who are  extremely articulate, who know exactly what they do and why. They do not  just spout partisan rhetoric. It was through these interviews I gained a  better understanding of the motivation of some of the people involved. The  problems that face Ireland are much more complex than the news commentators  would have you believe. The conflict is not just about religion, despite  the slogan of \\"For God And Ulster\\". And there are not 2 groups that oppose  one another, but factions within factions, often at odds with those who  would appear to be on the same side. There are even groups assembled  entirely of women, that I had never read of before.<br />One book cannot  explain the incredibly complex issues that catalyze and nurture the  violence in Ireland. Mr. Dillon does do are remarkably good job in a  relatively brief book that gives the reader a good grounding in the issues,  the combatants and their complaints. I came away from this book  understanding that if nothing else, the conflict is infinitely more complex  than usually portrayed, and that there are many groups portrayed as  fighting on the same side, when in fact they have as much affection for one  another as they do for their alleged common enemy.<br />The military forces  are not exempt for behavior that is appalling to any true military unit's  functioning, and the complicity of those that sanction their behavior is  repulsive as well. The book will not answer every question you may have; it  will give you a great deal of information that may lead you to further  study of the topic.<br />A very well written investigative book, by a man who  literally put his life at risk to bring this work, and others he has done  to readers.s through these interviews I gained a  better understanding of the motivation of some of the people involved. The  problems that face Ireland are much more complex than the news commentators  would have you believe. The conflict is not just about religion, despite  the slogan of \\"For God And Ulster\\". And there are not 2 groups that oppose  one another, but factions within factions, often at odds with those who  would appear to be on the same side. There are even groups assembled  entirely of women, that I had never read of before.<br />One book cannot  explain the incredibly complex issues that catalyze and nurture the  violence in Ireland. Mr. Dillon does do are remarkably good job in a  relatively brief book that gives the reader a good grounding in the issues,  the combatants and their complaints. I came away from this book  understanding that if nothing else, the conflict is infinitely more complex  than usually portrayed, and that there are many groups portrayed as  fighting on the same side, when in fact they have as much affection for one  another as they do for their alleged common enemy.<br />The military forces  are not exempt for behavior that is appalling to any true military unit's  functioning, and the complicity of those that sanction their behavior is  repulsive as well. The book will not answer every question you may have; it  will give you a great deal of information that may lead you to further  study of the topic.<br />A very well written investigative book, by a man who  literally put his life at risk to bring this work, and others he has done  to readers.	2000-09-01
2300484:US	53047425	R1TTOJLW34ZQ0N	0060976926	149142118	Galatea 2.2: A Novel	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Carbon or Silicon based?	Richard Powers is a gifted writer, a rather unusual measure of that are  the reviews that people write about his work. With the usual exception,  those that read his work take what he has written, and integrate it in to  their own ideas. His books are not just entertainment. Another reviewer  suggested the Author allows for this ambiguity in his writing, he allows  the reader the freedom of opinion on outcome, the ability to make a choice.  The primary subject he presents in this work is one that will continue to  grow from theory, until it forces fundamental beliefs to be questioned, and  bring out the most Fundamentalist of Luddites, and with them debate that  will carry the potential for disruption, or worse, violence.<br />Mr. Powers  has a talent for writing about arcana and making the subjects accessible.  Unlike many reviewers, my knowledge of the pursuit of Artificial  Intelligence is strictly that of an amateur. I found that Mr. Powers  brought credibility to a theme that has been little more than bad Science  Fiction in the hands of other Authors. He included all the tech-talk, but  he used language in its most basic forms to first make the project appear  possible, to bringing the true enormity of what will be required before  anything akin to sentience can be achieved/created.<br />The written words,  when he collected them into novel form, also became the deciding factor in  his initial carbon-based personal relationship. When silicon took the place  of carbon the importance of language was increased exponentially. Neither  relationship was fruitful.<br />One reviewer queried that when we finished the  book did the experience stop or is it continuing even now. If you have  never read this Author, what I write might suggest I have a form of  dementia. I admit that before I read \\"Plowing The Dark\\" I thought other  reviewers were there, way, way, out there.<br />Mr. Powers is the perfect  novelist, for when you are immersed in his work he suspends disbelief  faultlessly. He does not intrude, and he does not preach. Making the  decision to read his work is a bit like what Neo faced, the red pill, or  the blue? Once you start with the first book, you cannot stop reading until  he stops writing.f  faultlessly. He does not intrude, and he does not preach. Making the  decision to read his work is a bit like what Neo faced, the red pill, or  the blue? Once you start with the first book, you cannot stop reading until  he stops writing.	2000-08-31
2304469:US	53047425	R35JFCCSAVN4PN	0312156820	27139926	Used and Rare: Travels in the Book World	Books	2	59	74	N	N	Gentle Madness, light, very light	The book I refer to in the title is, \\"A Gentle Madness\\" by Nicholas A. Basbanes. If you are not yet prepared to spend the time the 638-page  Basbanes book requires, this short story may be amusing.<br />The book is  generally well written, and at times quite funny. Unfortunately there is an  arrogance that pervades the book that is as misplaced as it is mean  spirited. Perhaps the Authors felt the need to compensate for their  neophyte status as book collectors, by making sport of those who truly know  books.<br />Book collecting is complex, and can be extremely expensive for the  newcomer. There are several useful pieces of information the Authors learn  and share, but it is too often accompanied by their observations about the  people and the bookstores they patronize. The learning curve on collecting  is a long one, and the dealers who take their time to instruct the novice  are more prevalent than you might imagine, and it's been my experience that  they ask for nothing in return. Many booksellers just love books, the fact  they part with them on occasion through a sale is often almost painful for  them.<br />So do note from this book how not to deal with people, how not to  take advantage of their time and their willingness to share it, and then  exploit the experience for your own profit. A book collector would never  have written in the manner they chose. This is the result of research done  for a book that was written over a cup of coffee, maybe two.	2000-08-28
2305439:US	53047425	R1N73KAQ3N2EA3	1582340889	729983349	The Time of Light	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An extraordinary talent	\\"I woke this morning to the song of war and the smell of tears. The war must have been going on for a long time: my pillow was wet, very, very  wet.\\"<br />It is a rare event, but a wonderful gift, when one who loves to  read discovers an exceptional new Author. \\"The Time Of Light\\" by Mr. Gunnar  Kopperud is this Author's gift to readers. This historically based novel is  perhaps the best book I have read year to date, and certainly would be  prominent were I ever to list the finest of what I have been privileged to  read.<br />The quote above is the first sentence in this book; it is spoken by  Markus to an Armenian Priest, as the conflict between Armenia and  Azerbaijan over a place called Nagorno-Karabakh begins. During their nine  days of conversation in 1994, events that have tormented Markus for over 50  years, his unanswered questions, his guilt, and his need to make amends,  brings the Priest and Markus together. While they speak, yet another war  unfolds its own atrocities, actions are taken by soldiers that may require  this meeting be replicated again, 50 years hence when others seek  atonement.<br />Markus and two friends are drafted into service as soldiers  for Germany in World War II. They are not Nazis, they never see or serve at  the camps, but the level of the war they were a part of, reached an abyss  of unprecedented evil so bereft of reason, that even the actions of the  individual soldier knew no rules, held no moral code, and destroyed them  forever.<br />Can one be forgiven, who can grant this wish to atone, who was  and has been responsible for atrocities throughout History? Black and white  issues they are not, they are like the gray paper that Dieter, the only one  to return home from the war, covers his entire room with, and then attempts  to resolve his demons by listing what he once believed, and what beliefs he  now holds. But just as the paper he writes on is ambiguous in color, so too  are the absolutes that he hopes to list, to put things in order, to make  things right, to give himself some measure of peace.<br />And the third  soldier Manfred, who after 13 years of war and imprisonment, volunteers to  be relocated with one of the endless number of ethnic groups that Stalin  displaces on a whim across the new \\"Union\\". He hopes that distance will be  his salvation.<br />Just as another great writer of the human condition, Mr.  John Steinbeck, often did, Mr. Kopperud does not tie everything up neatly  for the reader. Who can claim the knowledge of absolute truths, who can  dispense the answers that give peace to shattered lives?<br />In a brilliant  moment of torment in the book, and in the midst of a violent storm, both  internal and external, Markus wants an answer to his  question.<br />\\"God!\\"<br />\\"Why didn't you stop me?\\"<br />\\"Have you ever managed to  stop anything at all?\\"hings in order, to make  things right, to give himself some measure of peace.<br />And the third  soldier Manfred, who after 13 years of war and imprisonment, volunteers to  be relocated with one of the endless number of ethnic groups that Stalin  displaces on a whim across the new \\"Union\\". He hopes that distance will be  his salvation.<br />Just as another great writer of the human condition, Mr.  John Steinbeck, often did, Mr. Kopperud does not tie everything up neatly  for the reader. Who can claim the knowledge of absolute truths, who can  dispense the answers that give peace to shattered lives?<br />In a brilliant  moment of torment in the book, and in the midst of a violent storm, both  internal and external, Markus wants an answer to his  question.<br />\\"God!\\"<br />\\"Why didn't you stop me?\\"<br />\\"Have you ever managed to  stop anything at all?\\"	2000-08-28
2305538:US	53047425	R1H2Z7GVTSRNSF	0679753109	96094931	The Dying of the Light: A Mystery	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Surprise, shock, but dont degrade	The solution to this mystery, \\"The Dying Of The Light\\", is as clever as any of Mr. Dibdin's work. The matching of wits, the misdirection, and words  so carefully chosen, create a wonderful adversary for the inspector. That  his adversary is at least an octogenarian, creates a duel that is just that  more interesting.<br />This story is a bit like the board game that requires  the players to solve, who did what to whom, where was it done, and what was  the weapon of choice. The setting is a home for the aged, and the  environment is which they live could be described as one created by a  satanic Dickens. This atmosphere is what I did not care for. A good mystery  does not require the degradation of a character, humiliation does not shock  as much as it makes the reader uncomfortable, and for me it does nothing  but detract from the tale.<br />I have commented on many other of this  Author's work, so I will not repeat the thoughts here. The resolution was  excellent, the action leading to it however, barely made the book a worthy  read.	2000-08-28
2305540:US	53047425	R1NDQ4CVNET2E9	0156005697	856529005	Buckley: The Right Word	Books	5	74	75	N	N	Even the title	When I first became an avid reader of Mr. Buckley's work I was amazed at how often his use of words was attacked. I wondered whether a new crime  bill had been passed that outlawed a person being articulate. Why should  someone who joyfully uses language be pilloried for doing so? Even  commercial reviewers feel the need to go to their thesaurus, trot out words  that they have never used before and look foolish. They become guilty of  the offense of affectation that so often is the charge against Mr.  Buckley.<br />This collection of writing, and with it the discussion of  language is many things, at no point is it not worthy of the reader's time.  For all on Amazon who write their thoughts about a book, there is a section  on reviewing that is priceless. The correspondence that is shared between  his readers and Mr. Buckley set the standard for wit.<br />What is the  alternative his detractors seek? Perhaps one of those books \\"English For  Dummies?\\" I suppose a minimal number of words, subsidized with hand signals  and grunts would please some. I choose to adhere to Mr. Buckley's love of  language, even though when he is the writer I am often reduced to flipping  through a dictionary. So what! The decriminalization of learning was passed  long ago. Freedom of speech includes the right to expand your vocabulary in  the pursuit of your happiness. To the extent others are bothered, again, so  what? Apathy may have become a national pastime, but it is not  required.<br />This book was carefully titled. I don't mean to shock his  detractors but Mr. Buckley is a Conservative, so \\"right\\" was the only  alternative for the title. Correct, appropriate, acceptable, could never do  for this master of language. He uses a word because it works, because his  choice enhances the reading and listening experience.<br />Grab a dictionary,  expand your lexicon, the pain is minimal.	2000-08-28
2306852:US	53047425	R3F1KRMZ1EUE4	0060186437	262974879	The Art of Scandal: The Life and Times of Isabella Stewart Gardner	Books	1	52	56	N	N	Exceptionally wretched	The nine reviewers who precede me have on balance been kind when giving  this pretentious bit of nonsense an average rating of 2 stars. This is  alleged to be a biography of Isabella Stewart Gardner, and while she plays  a part in this written mess, it is the Author, Douglas Shand-Tucci who  places himself and his feelings on par with his alleged subject.<br />I have  never read anything that was punctuated, or better stated mutilated, than  this offering the New York Times deemed \\"Notable\\". Notable it is, for one  reviewer gave up because of the exclamation points; this Author uses them  more often than periods, but never begins to approach in frequency the  repetitive structural disasters that riddle every page. Maybe it is because  his name contains one, I can think of no other reason, for this man uses  more hyphens on a page than normally would be encountered on 100 pages of  any other work. Sentences that must compete for records in length in part  due to the parentheticals, quotes, and other handfuls of punctuated  nonsense that was thrown at these pages by the handful.<br />Then there is the  incessant use of \\"I\\", this is used in inane asides, and when he answers  himself endlessly, i.e. \\"What was it that Twain said...\\" And then there is  his habit of condescending to his readers. He will use a word he presumes  would not be understood by a junior-high English class, and then goes on to  explain what he means to his readers, who he clearly believes to be  semi-literate.<br />It is an accomplishment to write about a fascinating woman  who first conceived, and then created a collection of art, and a building  for it, on a scale no other woman had ever done. However after 150 pages  she has bought 2 paintings that the Author devoted about the same number of  sentences to, why, because the balance is spent exploring the personal  lives of the people around her made doubly long by the Author's  pontificating on their life preferences. Who cares? This was not supposed  to be about Mrs. Gardner's friends, their private lives and  suicides.<br />This Author even has the audacity to compliment himself, as he  proclaims that no other Biographer \\"has ever\\" said this or that. The reason  they have not Mr. Shand-Tucci is that nobody cares.<br />Any other biography  on this woman and her museum has got to be better than this result, which  is so bad it won't even put a person to sleep.<br />Like another reviewer I  would happily return it, but to do so would lower the quality of the  inventory that I elevated when I rid them of this nonsense.<br />The only  \\"scandal\\" here is the book, and those that let it be printed.osed  to be about Mrs. Gardner's friends, their private lives and  suicides.<br />This Author even has the audacity to compliment himself, as he  proclaims that no other Biographer \\"has ever\\" said this or that. The reason  they have not Mr. Shand-Tucci is that nobody cares.<br />Any other biography  on this woman and her museum has got to be better than this result, which  is so bad it won't even put a person to sleep.<br />Like another reviewer I  would happily return it, but to do so would lower the quality of the  inventory that I elevated when I rid them of this nonsense.<br />The only  \\"scandal\\" here is the book, and those that let it be printed.	2000-08-26
2307624:US	53047425	R23WN5KR1ZBF7	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	5	54	72	N	N	Not since October	Mr. Clancy started with Captain Ramius, Jack Ryan, Admiral Greer, and many other \\"people\\" that readers of his work have enjoyed since 1984. With \\"The  Bear And The Dragon\\" Mr. Clancy has not only proven he is the master of  this genre, he has again achieved the level of  \\"The Hunt For Red October\\".  Even better, instead of a comparatively quick 387 page read, he has  delivered a sweeping 1,028 page saga that includes some of the best writing  he has ever done.<br />This book should appeal to many more readers than just  those of us who enjoy the \\"Techno Thriller\\" genre. This work has enough of  the engineering details about the players in the gambit he has created, but  they do not overwhelm the story. The technical narrative is more concise,  will appeal to more readers, and does not drop to the level of a tedious  multiple page description of an atomic weapon exploding, that an earlier  novel subjected the reader to. This book is more refined, the elements  better allocated, as to make this an extremely engaging read without the  story being dominated by any one element.<br />President Jack Ryan has become  a player on Clancy's stage that is better developed than any previous  appearance he has made. Mr. Clancy clearly decided to take character  development up several notches as well as expanding it to a much larger  cast. The First Lady, the Ryan children, and the Secret Service Agents are  individuals, not just subject matter to be dispatched with an occasional  line.<br />President Ryan is a Chief Executive who is as unconventional as the  circumstances that brought him to office. We are allowed inside his thought  process and are not relegated to observer status. A visit he makes to  \\"Satan's Playground\\" did not need to be in the story, but like the added  depth the participants in the story received, Mr. Clancy adds a variety of  asides, be they a visit, a conversation, or an impression visually  noted.<br />This book is a great novel. This work does not need to have any  adjectives like \\"Techno\\" or any other modifiers added to place it in a  familiar genre. The book is just one great piece of fiction, and even that  word is limiting. I just read the non-fiction work \\"Godfather of The  Kremlin\\", Mr. Clancy's work of fiction is anything but imagined when he  touches on the same topics.<br />President Reagen commented about the work  \\"The Hunt For Red October\\" as, \\"a great yarn\\" if I remember correctly, I  wish he could read this work.to have any  adjectives like \\"Techno\\" or any other modifiers added to place it in a  familiar genre. The book is just one great piece of fiction, and even that  word is limiting. I just read the non-fiction work \\"Godfather of The  Kremlin\\", Mr. Clancy's work of fiction is anything but imagined when he  touches on the same topics.<br />President Reagen commented about the work  \\"The Hunt For Red October\\" as, \\"a great yarn\\" if I remember correctly, I  wish he could read this work.	2000-08-26
2312934:US	53047425	R2HU6P0VL8DHEL	080505538X	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	4	28	29	N	N	At first good, the second time, very well done	Before I read the book I read all the reviews, many of which expressed  frustration at what wasn't clear, or perhaps how ambiguous the ending  appeared. So I decided to try to read more closely, with the result that I  too failed and was frustrated as well. Since this work like the Author's  first novel, \\"The Luneberg Variation\\", is brief I opened to page one and  started again. I cannot say that every detail became clear, every issue  resolved, but the story is not as open ended as it appears on the first  read.<br />As in his first novel the primary emotion at work is obsession,  there are other strong issues, but I believe this to be the strongest.  Where other readers feel the Author went off the track of his story, I  believe it was meant as a bit of misdirection. The Author mixed the  discussion of immortality and music, but I believe he did it primarily to  confuse the reader. I was confused enough without that, for the Author  plays games with everything from ready made graves that do/did and may yet  have an occupant, to Patrimony, and then a mental condition that throws  many presumptions to that point out of order. As this last point is  revealed on the penultimate page, the Author tests how well you followed  the characters, and how high your frustration level is.<br />I have been  reading a number of books by the Author Michael Dibdin, and like Mr. Dibdin  Mr. Maurensig enjoys telling his stories in a pattern akin to a labyrinth  as opposed to an orderly sequence of events. But a good Mystery needs to  move in a manner that at times may appear random, but if done well will  become clear at the end. This Author leaves more to be interpreted by the  reader than other writers. His tales however are intricate and would make  for great debate if all the reviewers were to gather and put forth their  \\"answers\\".	2000-08-22
2313613:US	53047425	R2861U8JO9L073	0789205009	113939127	Henry Clay Frick	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Biography, History, And Art	\\"Henry Clay Frick: An Intimate Portrait\\" is an excellent work of history, biography, and a stunning visual presentation of art. The result of a  decade long effort by a Great Granddaughter of Mr. Frick, Martha Frick  Symington Sanger, the book is a beautiful volume from its construction, to  what is displayed and written within.<br />This is not as scholarly a book as  Simon Schama's \\"Rembrandt's Eyes\\", and so it should be judged with distinct  criteria. This is a family history as related by one of its members, so in  exchange for the objective view of the Historian, we trade a certain  objective detachment for an intimate portrait of the man, his family, and  the legacy of art he collected. I was amused to read that one person  thought that some of the works bought by Mr. Frick were \\"Duds\\". I would  agree that when your collection includes multiple paintings by Vermeer,  Rembrandt, El Greco, Peter Paul Rubens, Renoir, Veronese, El Greco, and Van  Dyck, to name a few, some are perhaps \\"better\\" than others. I would also  suggest no one would take a pass if offered a work for their own.<br />Mr.  Frick was a very tough businessman, at times brutal, and he never hesitated  to employ these tactics when he perceived his business interests were  threatened. This does not make him unique among the major Capitalists that  built this Country, Rockefeller, Carnegie, Fisk, and many other were also  notorious by today's standards, or were they? Private armies may no longer  be used, but public welfare, and the fate of employees is not always at the  top of the list today either. I do not attempt to justify what they did,  rather to suggest a more dispassionate view is in order. Our \\"Robber  Barons\\" are often compared to the Kleptocrats of today's Russia, and that  truly is absurd.<br />Fortunately many of these men amassed great collections  of art whether rare books, paintings, historical documents, or something  else that caught their interest, and we are the beneficiaries of their  collections. The Morgan Library or The Frick Collection simply could not be  duplicated today. Theoretically Mr. Bill Gates could pay the price, but  where would you find a brace of Vermeer's offered for sale?<br />The book is  not perfect in it's history as others have pointed out, however on balance  I believe the work to be excellent, and certainly the most personal insight  into the life of Mr. Frick.<br />Mr. Frick and others like him make easy  targets, that they were flawed is not the issue, they were. They also gave  back in a variety of forms a great deal of the wealth they accumulated.  This may not be enough for some or even for many, but to have left no  legacy other than that of brutal businessmen, I suggest, would be a great  deal more disappointing.f their  collections. The Morgan Library or The Frick Collection simply could not be  duplicated today. Theoretically Mr. Bill Gates could pay the price, but  where would you find a brace of Vermeer's offered for sale?<br />The book is  not perfect in it's history as others have pointed out, however on balance  I believe the work to be excellent, and certainly the most personal insight  into the life of Mr. Frick.<br />Mr. Frick and others like him make easy  targets, that they were flawed is not the issue, they were. They also gave  back in a variety of forms a great deal of the wealth they accumulated.  This may not be enough for some or even for many, but to have left no  legacy other than that of brutal businessmen, I suggest, would be a great  deal more disappointing.	2000-08-21
2313731:US	53047425	RNXK1MLDHKTZC	0151006210	458948337	Godfather of the Kremlin: the Life and Times of Boris Berezovsky	Books	5	63	67	N	N	Even with the Authors warning	Mr. Paul Klebnikov makes a rather unusual declaration at the beginning of his book by stating that what is about to be read may be difficult to  believe. As this work is non-fiction the comment would seem misplaced.  However once the reading has begun it not only proves to have been  appropriate, but is a fact you will keep reminding yourself of.<br />The  Author relates what is arguably the greatest theft in History, and if he  had decided to change some detail, he could have had an outstanding novel.  That the events he relates actually took place makes for a reading  experience no novel can compete with. I have been following Mr. Klebnikov's  stories in Forbes, since December of 1996 when he introduced Mr. Boris  Berezovsky as Russia's Godfather. That first article in Forbes brought the  wrath of Mr. Berezovsky to bear on Forbes and the Author, but he continued  with his research and lived to write this book. Whatever his personal  motivation was, and continues to be, is remarkable. This man worked for  years on the home field of a variety of people who were capable of removing  him from the living, with a glance, and without any fear of consequence to  themselves.<br />The dysfunctional, amoral, nothing is out of bounds world,  that was Boris Yeltsin's Russia, truly is difficult to get your mind  around. Some minor details that will prepare you for the real story; when  Gorbachev was still in power the government budget received 25% of its  revenues from where, from the Government monopoly on Vodka! The ruble of  Gorbachev was worth approximately one U.S. dollar. At the close of 1992 one  dollar would cost 415 rubles, and when Yeltsin finally left office in an  alcoholic haze, if you wanted a dollar you needed 28,000 rubles!<br />The  \\"Voucher Auctions\\" that took place in 1993 and 1994 would not have been  condoned much less implemented by a student with a semester or two of  Economic study. Gazprom, which owns one third of the planet's Natural Gas,  was \\"auctioned\\" for $250 million dollars, the truer value, if valued as a  Western Company, would have had its gas reserves alone valued at between  $300 and $700 BILLION. These numbers do not take into account that the  company was basically a monopoly supplier to the entire former Soviet  Union, and much of Western Europe as well.<br />To put a more familiar face on  these numbers, at the very lowest estimate, you could have bought Exxon and  had $12 billion left over, at the high end you could have bought General  Electric, the most valuable company as I write, and since you might be  thirsty after the effort, you could pick up Coca Cola with the change left  from the GE purchase.<br />You will learn how Mr. Berezovsky privatized the  cash flows of companies like Aeroflot, companies he did not own, and by  using little money, if any at all, and if he needed any the seller, The  Government would supply it. He was not the only man to take advantage of  Yeltsin and his hand picked group of incompetents but he surely was the  master at the game.<br />This book will leave you stunned. How much to buy the  election for Yeltsin, read the book, how often Yeltsin was sober, the facts  will alarm you, how Tanya his beloved daughter who knew nothing that  qualified her for Government, became the power behind her Father, often  doing the bidding of Mr. Berezovsky, who are you ready for this, was  appointed to the Government by good old Yeltsin himself.<br />The wholesale  rape of Russia's assets is worse than any damage that Russia has ever been  through. Those who dared to challenge the system of \\"Kleptocracy\\" were easy  to identify, they were either already buried, were bleeding, or about to be  assassinated. You played by the rules of thieves or you were removed, it  was that simple.<br />I have read many metaphors in other places that compare  the Mafiyas' in Russia today to the Robber Barons of this Country of a  century or more ago. Anyone who puts forth this argument is painfully  ignorant of History. It is true that the men who carried the sobriquet  Robber Baron were not individuals whose paths you would have wished to  cross, for as businessmen they were ruthless. That is where the comparison  ends, for the bottom line is that they built this country, and while there  were times violence took place it is only the inept that would compare it  to the thousands murdered, and the millions who died as the result of  Russia being taken apart and given away. Russia was eviscerated with the  Government's consent and its participation, and the consequences to the  citizenry at large had not been as premeditative in their design or as  destructive since Stalin.<br />I liked this quote from a top Russian Official,  \\"it is very difficult to determine whether it's incompetence or  embezzlement\\".y  ignorant of History. It is true that the men who carried the sobriquet  Robber Baron were not individuals whose paths you would have wished to  cross, for as businessmen they were ruthless. That is where the comparison  ends, for the bottom line is that they built this country, and while there  were times violence took place it is only the inept that would compare it  to the thousands murdered, and the millions who died as the result of  Russia being taken apart and given away. Russia was eviscerated with the  Government's consent and its participation, and the consequences to the  citizenry at large had not been as premeditative in their design or as  destructive since Stalin.<br />I liked this quote from a top Russian Official,  \\"it is very difficult to determine whether it's incompetence or  embezzlement\\".	2000-08-21
2314734:US	53047425	R35WXEUJGGUR5Y	0374194351	871150203	The Luneburg Variation	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Great debut	This is the first novel by Mr. Maurensig, and it is enjoyable even though  it is too brief. The comment on brevity is not a complaint; I just wish it  had been longer.<br />The Author uses some familiar ideas and locations for  this short story, but he is able to do so without sounding clich&eacute;. Using a  train for the locale of an unfolding mystery is familiar, as is the most  complex of games, chess, with which the Author unwinds his story. When he  is done the result is a very enjoyable albeit a brief read.<br />The read is  not as clich&eacute; as some of the commercial reviews would have you believe. I  am bothered that the same reviewers found it necessary to expose so much of  the story; it is after all only 140 pages. It is true that some elements  have been used before, but that is true of every book that has been  written. Every book in English uses the same words, it's the arrangement of  them that matters. A bad Author with a new idea produces nothing of  interest, a talented Author like Mr. Maurensig can take what is familiar  and make it fresh.	2000-08-21
2315117:US	53047425	R33PLW8B6R0R7F	0156005824	973274045	A Goat's Song	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Every time you weep	\\"Every time you weep in a theatre you're listening to a goat  singing.\\"<br />This is the Author, Dermot Healy, explaining through the  playwright/protagonist Jack Ferris, what Jack's trade is. As I have now  read this second book by Mr. Healy, after completing \\"Sudden Times\\", it  also is an apt description of the Author as well. You cannot categorize nor  summarize what Mr. Healy creates and then relates to readers in a word, or  two, or four. Just as with the fictional Jack Harris, an explanation is  needed, and not just an ordinary statement, but also a demonstration of not  only the wide knowledge, but also the true understanding the Author  commands of his knowledge to exacting detail. The exchange that follows is  Jack's half of a conversation with Catherine who wants to know what he  does. After the lines below she still has no clue, and neither did I.  However by the bottom of the page not only do we learn what he does, but  its origins, a bit about Greek theatre, and even that goats cannot  swim.<br />\\"I do a spot of writing.\\"<br />\\"Plays, I'm interested in plays\\"<br />\\"I  pen songs of the buck. Billy Tunes\\"<br />\\"Goat Song's\\"<br />Now if this Author's  prose is compared to what we normally would read, \\"What do you do?\\" I write  plays, tragedies\\", you begin to gain an appreciation of just how special  this man's literary gifts are. The example I share is not the exception  with his work rather it is the rule. These are not clever sounds bites  surrounded by mediocrity, this man consistently writes with a level of  expertise, which is remarkable. It has been mentioned that the first  section is overly long, and at first it appears to be. However once you are  into the balance of the book, extending to the very end, the first section  underpins the entire tale.<br />There is a single or perhaps singular event  that symbolizes much of what takes place in the book. It is not the death  that is the issue, it is the symbolism of the location, the deceased's  relationship with the institutions that bracket his death, and the man, and  his Daughter Catherine, who live with those realities, or will live with  the lingering effects in Catherine's case, that make the event so  pivotal.<br />Mr. Healy's created worlds and the people that inhabit them are  generally not people the reader would enthusiastically change places with,  if places changed at all, ever. His creations are troubled people, not  necessarily in a unique manner as they are the result of a Country divided  by violence, Religious based hatred, and hundred of years of pain both  suffered and inflicted. In certain key events it is the characters  themselves who are at the center of the violence that they and the next  generation will continue to suffer for, through guilt, paranoia, prejudice,  and anger that borders on hatred. As if to ensure the events can never be  properly dealt with, abuse of alcohol guarantees that melancholia will be  as contented as these otherwise miserable people are. Even here the abusive  drinking is not just a standard Irish clich&eacute;, the author makes these  characters more complex by bringing you right along side their thoughts as  he always does. He lets the reader experience the mental anguish that at  times borders on psychotic.<br />Mr. Healy has the gift of immersing the  reader in a story that is not necessarily fantastic, and certainly not  contrived. He continually demonstrates that the people he creates are all  too familiar, that daily life is not grindingly repetitive but  fascinating.<br />It is no wonder at all that top writers speak of this man's  work in terms of absolute praise of the highest order. That they are  gifted, proven writers, who praise his work above their own, make their  endorsements all the more impressive.ionship with the institutions that bracket his death, and the man, and  his Daughter Catherine, who live with those realities, or will live with  the lingering effects in Catherine's case, that make the event so  pivotal.<br />Mr. Healy's created worlds and the people that inhabit them are  generally not people the reader would enthusiastically change places with,  if places changed at all, ever. His creations are troubled people, not  necessarily in a unique manner as they are the result of a Country divided  by violence, Religious based hatred, and hundred of years of pain both  suffered and inflicted. In certain key events it is the characters  themselves who are at the center of the violence that they and the next  generation will continue to suffer for, through guilt, paranoia, prejudice,  and anger that borders on hatred. As if to ensure the events can never be  properly dealt with, abuse of alcohol guarantees that melancholia will be  as contented as these otherwise miserable people are. Even here the abusive  drinking is not just a standard Irish clich, the author makes these  characters more complex by bringing you right along side their thoughts as  he always does. He lets the reader experience the mental anguish that at  times borders on psychotic.<br />Mr. Healy has the gift of immersing the  reader in a story that is not necessarily fantastic, and certainly not  contrived. He continually demonstrates that the people he creates are all  too familiar, that daily life is not grindingly repetitive but  fascinating.<br />It is no wonder at all that top writers speak of this man's  work in terms of absolute praise of the highest order. That they are  gifted, proven writers, who praise his work above their own, make their  endorsements all the more impressive.	2000-08-20
2320108:US	53047425	R3LMQMGD01YM44	0786864672	238592733	Pure Drivel	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Looking out over the East River,	from my jail cell and still running for public office, I realize I have taken several actions in my life for which I owe public apologies.<br />And so  begins the Author's \\"A Public Apology\\" in \\"Pure Drivel\\". I thought this  little collection of wit to be not only funny, but also extremely well  penned. If the thought of Steve Martin conjures the image of him clad in  Egyptian Regalia singing \\"King Tut\\", you will find there is much more to  this actor, comedian, playwright, writer of short stories a forthcoming  book, and musician.<br />Mr. Martin not only has an extremely unique view of  life, he has the ability to deliver it through all of the methods listed  above. I agree this was short, I also believe were it much longer, its  impact would have been lessened. Timing is what this man does so well, and  knowing when enough means finished, is a rare talent indeed.	2000-08-16
2320341:US	53047425	R3JL5IFVDM7S5M	0375704019	749604254	A Long Finish	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Which wine best compliments a Murder?	In addition to all the wonderful reasons that make Michael Dibdin a pleasure to read, \\"A Long Finish\\", adds content for the gourmet. The wines  of Alba and the \\"white diamonds\\" as the local whites truffles are  reverently called, are components of a mystery that exposes another of the  unconventional Italian priorities that Aurelio Zen constantly  confronts.<br />The question of whether a Father was murdered by his Son is of  little concern to those who pull the strings that bring Aurelio to Alba.  The Son must be released, as only he can bring in the grapes that create  the wine so desperately desired by a prominent Italian and many others. To  devotees of wine I mean no offense, but the descriptions offered at a wine  tasting often make for great humor. \\"Nice bouquet, great legs, fingers and  thighs a bit weak, but they are buttressed by a boisterous bosom. A fruity  opening, a woody polyester transition, and finally a finish that is crisp  yet smooth with a suggestion of cinnamon, the barest hint of the citric,  and finally dishwater\\".<br />Why has a top crime investigator from Rome been  brought, because \\"he appears to be intelligent, devious and effective,  compromised by only a regrettable tendency to insist on a conventional  conception of morality at certain crucial moments\\". So with that career  making resume material in hand, \\"Dottore\\" is off to get the grapes  bottled.<br />This really is one of the best in the series, the only  installment I have yet to read is \\"Cabal\\" and if it meets this performance  the collection of writing is nearly perfect. The story has all the murders  so unique, the guilty, the innocent, the guilty that wish they were, and  all the rest of the maze that Mr. Dibdin is rightfully noted for.<br />He also  can really describe wine unlike my feeble attempt. \\"Barolo is the Bach of  wine, strong, supremely structured, a little forbidding, but absolutely  fundamental. Barbaresco is the Beethoven, taking those qualities and  lifting them to heights of subjective passion and pain that have never been  surpassed. And Brunello is its Brahms. The softer, fuller, romantic  afterglow of so much strenuous excess\\".<br />That bit of prose is offered up  in the earliest of pages of this work, and Dibdin's pen does not fail or  even skip throughout the tale. This story also has a dry satire, and a  certain outrageousness that might be comical if placed within a less dire  context.<br />Again a great body of work that I hope will continue for many  more years.to heights of subjective passion and pain that have never been  surpassed. And Brunello is its Brahms. The softer, fuller, romantic  afterglow of so much strenuous excess\\".<br />That bit of prose is offered up  in the earliest of pages of this work, and Dibdin's pen does not fail or  even skip throughout the tale. This story also has a dry satire, and a  certain outrageousness that might be comical if placed within a less dire  context.<br />Again a great body of work that I hope will continue for many  more years.	2000-08-16
2320649:US	53047425	R1O0V6H0II9CNU	0375706143	972085101	A Rich Full Death	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Dante haunts Florence still	\\"A Rich Full Death\\" is one of Mr. Dibdin's earlier works, and while he still writes a strong narrative, this book was less enjoyable, and was not  on par with the balance of his work, until the very end. I plan to read the  book once again, as I believe knowing the outcome may improve the entire  story. I realize that sounds odd, however that is my impression.<br />A Mr.  Booth is our guide throughout the story, which is related to the reader in  the form of letters. As the reader you take the role of Prescott, the  letters recipient, and it is from Mr. Booth but for a codicil at the end,  who acts as the sole information source for the reader. Since the tale is  revealed from one perspective how you feel about Booth is critical. I found  him to be an annoying parasitical social climber, a pathetic man desperate  to join the correct social circles. This may have been exactly what Mr.  Dibdin intended, I don't know, but it annoyed me no end, and as Booth is  the narrator, there was no respite from his personality.<br />The plot twists  during the work are not as smooth as the other works I have read, but as I  mentioned, the ending is extremely entertaining, is the highlight of this  story, and may justify a second reading. As always murder is the sport of  choice, and the perpetrator's map for his crimes is extremely well  done.<br />Even though this was not one of the better reads of Mr. Dibdin's  work, I believe that a second pass through Dante's Florence may change, or  perhaps elevate the read. Such being the case, I err on the high side with  the fourth star.	2000-08-16
2322607:US	53047425	RA8CCU8DC6UQI	0679766588	590174788	The Last Sherlock Holmes Story	Books	4	32	40	N	N	A variation on the death of Mr. Holmes	Brash, audacious, or perhaps blasphemous, are all expressions that the devotees of Arthur Conan Doyle could exclaim upon hearing that the final  tale of Sherlock Holmes was to be re-written. There is literary precedent  for this; at least two completed novels of Dickens were subjected to  sequels by Authors who were not, and theories for solving the mystery of  \\"The Mystery Of Edwin Drood\\", also by Mr. Dickens are vast in number. The  latter exercise is not inappropriate as \\"Edwin Drood\\" stops in mid thought,  as the Author left it for his dinner, and then a rest he was not to recover  from. More recently \\"Gone With The Wind\\" was either the subject or the  victim of a sequel as well. Why the fuss? The Bible is the most reproduced  book in History, and if counted, might also take the crown for being  offered in more variations than any other work as well. The revision here  is to one story only, albeit the final one, but a challenge  nonetheless.<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is on record as not taking issue with  others placing his creation in circumstances other than those he originally  created. An example of his feelings is at the beginning of this work, but I  leave that for the reader. The difference here is that the final story  tells of the death of Mr. Holmes and his nemesis Moriarty at Reichenbach  Falls.<br />The first diversion that makes this tale unique is the inclusion  of the Whitechapel Murders. These acts were not fictional, but rather the  results of the still infamous Jack The Ripper. The primary players remain  the same, Holmes, Moriarty, and Dr. Watson. Dr. Watson relates the tale as  he wrote it, and per this story had it locked away for 50 years after his  death, when it then could be opened.<br />So the summer of 1976 is the setting  Michael Dibdin begins his tale, and a very good one it is. It takes a great  sensitivity to emulate writing that is so well known, to take the creations  of another's pen and make them credible without being little more than a  plagiarist. The more devoted of Mr. Doyle's readers may well refuse this  read, but to do so would be to miss a great contemporary writer of the  genre pay homage to, rather than besmirch the memory of Sir Doyle.<br />Much  of what you read is familiar, the fundamentals of course are not. If you  choose to spend the time you will have a wonderful read, even if you are  the strongest of advocates for the original Author's work.more than a  plagiarist. The more devoted of Mr. Doyle's readers may well refuse this  read, but to do so would be to miss a great contemporary writer of the  genre pay homage to, rather than besmirch the memory of Sir Doyle.<br />Much  of what you read is familiar, the fundamentals of course are not. If you  choose to spend the time you will have a wonderful read, even if you are  the strongest of advocates for the original Author's work.	2000-08-15
2322963:US	53047425	R3PM8YCDGKRN2C	1886939357	921316949	How To Become an Employer of Choice	Books	5	13	14	N	N	What company would answer no?	In theory the answer would be none, and in practice logic would dictate the same response. Can a company succeed with employees that are less than  100% content, it certainly can. Can it succeed without the employees  actively telling their peers in the industry why the company they work for  is the place to be, in other words, be active recruiters for the  organization, again the answer is yes. Any success achieved however will be  markedly less than if the two examples listed were true. A highly  motivated, satisfied member of a business that offers not only immediate  satisfaction, but continued opportunity for employees to grow and remain  satisfied will not only lead, and succeed, they will excel well beyond  their peers in their industry.<br />The health of the economy can almost be  judged by the size of the \\"business section\\" at your local bookstore. With  the present economy these books have almost become a bookstore within a  store as opposed to just a department. Almost daily there is yet another  work claiming to offer the Holy Grail to launch your company  forward.<br />\\"How To Become An Employer Of Choice\\" in my opinion is in the  upper tier of the books employers should read. Why, because it is an  exercise of common sense. I absolutely am serious. I have been a  participant in a variety of business seminars as an employee at the outset  of my career, and later as an owner through equity. The vast majority of  these sessions were expensive, time consuming and useless. My method of  evaluation was simple for these sessions, was I getting enough value to  justify being away from my work? Further were the balance of the  participants going to come away better equipped to help each other, help  me, and by extension the company to exceed the level of performance it had  attained prior to the seminar? Generally the answer was no, and the reason  was that behavior that should be common sense, was being dressed up as some  grand new theory. There certainly are evolutionary changes that affect the  way we conduct business, and there is also the very rare case of a  revolutionary change, a fundamental shift.<br />I believe in the basics, and  that is what this book describes. The more \\"obvious\\" a concept appears to  be is often directly related to how absent it is from the environment that  exists in the workplace. How many billions of dollars have been spent  teaching appropriate personal conduct in the workplace? I grant that much  of this is a reaction to the litigious nature of how we interact, to that  vile concept of \\"Political Correctness\\" a phrase that is nothing more than  a synonym for respect. Time must be spent as the methods of conveying  respect evolve, but the basic principals remain.<br />In the end, the value of  a given book cannot be based upon how many copies that are read, such a  measure is meaningless. If only one high-level manager in a major  corporation radically changed the attitudes of the company because he read  this book, then it will have been a success, perhaps not for the Authors  and the Publisher, but certainly for the employees and the employer who are  the beneficiaries.<br />There are not many of these books I can get through  much less agree with, this work is a worthwhile exception. The employees  and their state of mind toward what they do and whom they do it for cannot  be overstated. Without the people to implement the ideas, create the  innovations, and then deliver the product, nothing exists other than a  mediocrity of a company who's short lifespan is directly related to the  sensitivity of its executives toward their most valuable resource, their  people.e evolutionary changes that affect the  way we conduct business, and there is also the very rare case of a  revolutionary change, a fundamental shift.<br />I believe in the basics, and  that is what this book describes. The more \\"obvious\\" a concept appears to  be is often directly related to how absent it is from the environment that  exists in the workplace. How many billions of dollars have been spent  teaching appropriate personal conduct in the workplace? I grant that much  of this is a reaction to the litigious nature of how we interact, to that  vile concept of \\"Political Correctness\\" a phrase that is nothing more than  a synonym for respect. Time must be spent as the methods of conveying  respect evolve, but the basic principals remain.<br />In the end, the value of  a given book cannot be based upon how many copies that are read, such a  measure is meaningless. If only one high-level manager in a major  corporation radically changed the attitudes of the company because he read  this book, then it will have been a success, perhaps not for the Authors  and the Publisher, but certainly for the employees and the employer who are  the beneficiaries.<br />There are not many of these books I can get through  much less agree with, this work is a worthwhile exception. The employees  and their state of mind toward what they do and whom they do it for cannot  be overstated. Without the people to implement the ideas, create the  innovations, and then deliver the product, nothing exists other than a  mediocrity of a company who's short lifespan is directly related to the  sensitivity of its executives toward their most valuable resource, their  people.	2000-08-15
2324460:US	53047425	R1FLO3333HBG5T	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	5	20	31	N	N	Vodsel or Solved?	I read all of the preceding 12 reviews, and though some are diametrically opposed I can take issue with none of them. I don't know what comes after  surreal when speaking of the strange, but this book is firmly entrenched  there, way out there. This is not a book you will feel indifferently about,  I believe a fair number of people won't even finish it, or dispense the  reading as bad bits of fiction, science, horror, and anthropology, shaken  but not stirred, into a mess.<br />Others will love it, good background music  would be \\"Comfortably Numb\\" but anything by Pink Floyd will do. I really do  not want to add to what has been given away, and I won't, it would be  difficult to accomplish in any event, as only the Author knows what he was  saying with this work.<br />Stoma or Atoms?<br />The book can be about a variety  of well-worn story lines, some have been mentioned, but I do not believe  the book to be that simple. I also don't believe the Author intended to  baffle those who read to the end, by conning readers with a collection of  ethereal nonsense. \\"Ethereal\\" works, I'm not trying to be stylish, nor is  it meant as a pun, but it works that way if you prefer.<br />A Sassynil or a  sassy nil?<br />Presuming free will, if a book is read to the end the Author  has accomplished part of his goal, few force themselves to read hundreds of  pages that could be about many issues, use those issues for one  transcendent statement, or to leave those who finish wondering what kind of  weird trip this has been.<br />I was reduced to playing with the \\"Human\\"  words, and to the extent I found patterns I may have found meaning, or I  may give the Author a good laugh for my presumption. It may be the Author  wants each reader to come away with their own vision of what they have  read. If you have noticed, none of the commercial reviews took a shot at  \\"meaning\\"; they talk of sentence structure, or use words like \\"Swiftian\\" to  sound clever. The term Swiftian is about as relevant to this book, as the  word is elegant.<br />\\"What this daring young novelist brings to bear is a  nebulous web of existential thought, which rakes your neural net like nails  ripped across slate\\".<br />That's not from the jacket; I made it up as a word  byte.<br />If you like an Author who is out on the cutting, or perhaps more  accurately the bleeding edge of the written word, then this book is for  you. If conventional thought or the familiar phrase is necessary, read only  if you want your thoughts messed with.<br />In the end that is what this self  proclaimed \\"guinea pig for medical research\\" does to his readers. Without  the aforementioned experience, I don't know whether the book would have  been written, and that would be a loss, if nothing else, that IS a truth.ant to this book, as the  word is elegant. <br />\\"What this daring young novelist brings to bear is a  nebulous web of existential thought, which rakes your neural net like nails  ripped across slate\\".<br />That's not from the jacket; I made it up as a word  byte.<br />If you like an Author who is out on the cutting, or perhaps more  accurately the bleeding edge of the written word, then this book is for  you. If conventional thought or the familiar phrase is necessary, read only  if you want your thoughts messed with.<br />In the end that is what this self  proclaimed \\"guinea pig for medical research\\" does to his readers. Without  the aforementioned experience, I don't know whether the book would have  been written, and that would be a loss, if nothing else, that IS a truth.	2000-08-14
2325069:US	53047425	R2CCZ46ZIAYVVL	0679779116	753359416	Cosi Fan Tutti: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Its about what you are not thinking	Da Ponte wrote a libretto for the opera the composer called \\"The School  For Lovers\\". Michael Dibdin titles each chapter with a title from the  libretto in Italian, and in the contents gives the English approximation.  An estimate, a guess, any thought that suggests ambiguity is appropriate  for this Aurelio Zen mystery, for neither the reader nor those fictional  characters of \\"Cosi Fan Tutti\\" really know what is happening either.<br />When  the protagonist in the series is reduced to thinking, \\"Not only was the  plot slipping from his grasp, even the names of the cast appeared  unfamiliar\\" you either are holding a great tale, or the thoughts of a  writer who is in over his head. In the hands of a lesser talent this would  often suggest a book that has lost direction and has resorted to rhetorical  thought, as some gimmick for obscuring what is at heart a story gone amiss.  But this is Michael Dibdin, and control of plot is never an issue for  him.<br />Like a great play or opera the story arrives at its denouement, and  then seemingly every player is brought together and the true and final  facades are taken away. But for the Author this is not enough, for in the  previous book he plants in Aurelio's mind a doubt of the worst sort, which  appears to be solved at the end. A Priest leans over Zen's stricken Mother,  the Confession, and then the question as to whether the Mother would like  the Right of Extreme Unction. The Mother of course responds with \\"is there  more Brandy\\", the \\"Priest\\" is a mature changeling of sorts, and everything  you thought you knew, is twisted. All your thoughts are held up to a  mirror, and they are not backward gibberish, but Michael Dibdin true plot,  having once again the final resounding laughs at the reader's expense, and  delight.<br />Michael Dibdin has yet to repeat one of his sleights of thought  he baffles his reader's with, and with only 1 installment left to read I  doubt there will be repetition. His writing is wonderful, to use a  climber's term he continually presents false summits, the corner you turn  is never the last until you are convinced it is not, and his mirrors  reflect what he wants them to, not what light and nature intend.<br />My  enthusiasm for this man's work continues unabated, his work is simply  excellent.use a  climber's term he continually presents false summits, the corner you turn  is never the last until you are convinced it is not, and his mirrors  reflect what he wants them to, not what light and nature intend.<br />My  enthusiasm for this man's work continues unabated, his work is simply  excellent.	2000-08-13
2325318:US	53047425	R2JQUYJN45WS9W	0071360492	787735593	On Money and Markets: A Wall Street Memoir	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Contains the value of any dozen business books	The business section of any bookstore has shelves stretching to the horizon with business books, or more specifically books about Wall Street,  and how to get rich in various absurdly short periods of time. My personal  favorite is \\"The 20 Stocks To Own Right Now\\", how is now defined? When the  book was written, or the day the book is purchased. The title by definition  makes the volume worthless. The latest section to expand exponentially is  the area of \\"Day Trading\\" which is for a select few with some key talents  and a massive tolerance for risk. The odds are better you will make money  writing about day trading than playing the 300-500 trade a day frenzy.  These are the types of books that have their moment of fame when movies  like \\"Wall Street\\" and &quot;Boiler Room&quot; are in theaters, when those  who have a career that spans the length of the current unprecedented growth  populate Wall Street. The worst of these are the badly written kiss and  tell books written by 20 something's who detail the evils of Wall Street  that they made money from, and then they write a book when their brief  fling with the street is over.<br />Then there are the legends, the players  who measure their careers not in 15 minutes, but in blocks of 15 years.  They built \\"The Street\\", they have seen the hotshots come and go, at times  to a minimum-security prison. They may have not bought Cisco the day it was  offered to the public, but over time their success is the envy of the  investing world.<br />In this case the man is Mr. Harry Kaufman, a man who has  had the ear of Presidents, and Federal Reserve Chairmen, and countless  CEOS', one of who wrote the introduction to this book, Paul A. Volcker. Mr.  Kaufman, Mr. Buffet, Mr. Benjamin Graham, and an additional select few,  have or can lay claim to truly having the knowledge, the depth and breadth  of understanding finance both domestically, and as discussed in this book,  internationally as well. They burst the bubble not of the Internet, but the  abandon with which an enormous percentage of today's households invest in  the markets without the most basic understanding of what they are investing  in.<br />Some of the book does delve into Derivatives, Interest Rate Swaps,  and some of the enormous losses incurred recently that took down the bank  where the Queen Of England kept her spare change. A youngster toppled that  bank if you recall. If this level of detail puts you off, the book is still  an important book to own.<br />Mr. Kaufman tells much of his story as it  coincided with the rise of Solomon Brothers from its infancy to the  colossus it has become, and the memory it almost became. He also explains  why he left that institution with exceptional candor. He is literally one  of the originators of research as it has developed to this day. Some gave  him the sobriquet of \\"Dr. Doom\\" not because he was wrong, rather because he  dispassionately studied markets and then explained reality, not what people  wanted to hear. He invented many of the methods that are used today and are  taken for granted. When \\"analysts\\" today make proclamations they stand on  several sets of shoulders, and invariably included are those of Mr.  Kaufman.<br />He shares his life from a young boy who watched Hitler pass 6  feet in front of him. He explains the feeling of waiting for the  splintering of the front door, as former neighbors became persecutors. And  then the trip to America, and his education to the level of Doctorate prior  to starting on Wall Street. He had some other odd jobs as well, like  working at the Federal Reserve at a very young age.<br />Throughout the book  he constantly refers to his very young life experiences and how they  influence him to this day. And the depression stories, and the immigrant  stories are so numerous they at times sound like the norm not the  exception. The great danger now is that these stories are becoming history  as these people age and are replaced by those whohave not been tested by  severe life experience, but rather have grown up with little discomfort at  all.<br />When the market cycles straight down like it has before and will  again, be sure to check the bookstores. There still will be nonsensical  books about making millions in a Bear market, but most books will be out of  print and will have resurfaced again in a recycled newspaper, that tells  the story of all the college educated that cannot find jobs in the then  miserable economy.<br />This book will become a standard, for common sense is  never a fad, and when men like Henry Kaufman exercise their common sense,  it is something we call genius. And that genius produces a life experience  this book presents, as this man never once thought in 15 minutes of fame,  wrote an insipid tabloid storybook, or thought about getting rich in 5  years much less 5 weeks or days.<br />Mr. Kaufman will not be on the cover of  a magazine standing on a new $100 million toy that impresses Gorden Gecko.  He will continue to expand his knowledge and continue to influence those  who should be listening, for the truth often does hurt, but it is  survivable, doom however is final.<br />A brilliant work, to be included in  any library, financial or otherwise.have not been tested by  severe life experience, but rather have grown up with little discomfort at  all.<br />When the market cycles straight down like it has before and will  again, be sure to check the bookstores. There still will be nonsensical  books about making millions in a Bear market, but most books will be out of  print and will have resurfaced again in a recycled newspaper, that tells  the story of all the college educated that cannot find jobs in the then  miserable economy.<br />This book will become a standard, for common sense is  never a fad, and when men like Henry Kaufman exercise their common sense,  it is something we call genius. And that genius produces a life experience  this book presents, as this man never once thought in 15 minutes of fame,  wrote an insipid tabloid storybook, or thought about getting rich in 5  years much less 5 weeks or days.<br />Mr. Kaufman will not be on the cover of  a magazine standing on a new $100 million toy that impresses Gorden Gecko.  He will continue to expand his knowledge and continue to influence those  who should be listening, for the truth often does hurt, but it is  survivable, doom however is final.<br />A brilliant work, to be included in  any library, financial or otherwise.	2000-08-13
2325370:US	53047425	R35MQCA79R52FU	0192834290	115882645	The Woman in White (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	49	56	N	N	This is one of the highest standards Mr. Wilkie Collins set	\\"The Woman In White\\" is either the best mystery by this Author, or some readers like myself would choose \\"The Moonstone\\". I read the latter first,  and the first introduction often remains a favorite. These are also his  most well known works, although as an Author and playwright he produced  dozens. Rarely is a book received with such a unity of opinion, the 31  reviewers that precede me gave an average of a perfect 5 stars. And this  praise is for a book that is now being published in its third  century.<br />The book is intricate; it has the reader view the same events  from many points of view of a variety of characters, in either written or  spoken form. From the first encounter with the lady in white, to the final  step out of Mr. Collins's maze, into the open space of  \\"seeing\\" all the  bits he has presented you with, the book is uniformly excellent. One  commercial review suggested the book improved by being abridged, but they  can be dismissed, as that is what they are selling on tape. Mr. Collins was  a writer not a recording Artist, and even those who listen to the audio  version have done nothing to deserve being given an interpretation of the  novel. His writing has survived and flourished while countless means of  communication conveyance have come and gone.<br />Mr. Collins constructs  intricate plots, to share them, allow them to develop, and then to unwind  the mystery takes time, or perhaps pages. This book and others were issued  to the public in stages over several months. Even when they were bound for  library use, they were bound in 3 separate bindings. All of this was taken  into account when the writing was done, to suggest there can be any  modification of the work is to advertise ignorance. To suggest an  abridgement is not only possible but also an improvement is  imbecilic.<br />Mr. Wilkie Collins, his friend Mr. Charles Dickens, and their  contemporaries wrote books, They were as long as they needed to be, for  their Authors or Authoresses were not pondering what the movie rights might  bring, or how to adapt a particular character to suit a given actor. The  writing they did was uncorrupted. It is true, especially with Mr. Dickens  that he read from his work for the public, and did so extensively. But to  compare a live reading by the creator of a work, to another mechanical  abridged format is absurd.<br />\\"The Woman In White\\" would probably not be  published for the first time today. How many books of this length do you  find yourself inundated with from today's Authors? Of course there are  excellent writers today, a handful can be brilliant in one third the space  of this book, but so what? Well one problem is that for Charles Palliser to  create one of his works takes years, and the results are magnificent, but  like others who will remain in print ad infinitum, his work is long. His  work has also been compared to that of Mr. Collins.<br />In the end Readers  decide what is to stay and what is to be forgotten. It is wonderful that  while more and more of what is offered presently are ready-made  screenplays, or bound thoughts with the depth of a parking lot puddle, we  still have these gems handed down to us whose quality has ensured their  permanence.<br />If mystery is what you like, this is the Author who started  it. Enjoy.es were not pondering what the movie rights might  bring, or how to adapt a particular character to suit a given actor. The  writing they did was uncorrupted. It is true, especially with Mr. Dickens  that he read from his work for the public, and did so extensively. But to  compare a live reading by the creator of a work, to another mechanical  abridged format is absurd.<br />\\"The Woman In White\\" would probably not be  published for the first time today. How many books of this length do you  find yourself inundated with from today's Authors? Of course there are  excellent writers today, a handful can be brilliant in one third the space  of this book, but so what? Well one problem is that for Charles Palliser to  create one of his works takes years, and the results are magnificent, but  like others who will remain in print ad infinitum, his work is long. His  work has also been compared to that of Mr. Collins.<br />In the end Readers  decide what is to stay and what is to be forgotten. It is wonderful that  while more and more of what is offered presently are ready-made  screenplays, or bound thoughts with the depth of a parking lot puddle, we  still have these gems handed down to us whose quality has ensured their  permanence.<br />If mystery is what you like, this is the Author who started  it. Enjoy.	2000-08-13
2326701:US	53047425	R7G44G9I2JVNL	067178546X	814935595	Blue Gold : A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The definition of intelligent collaboration	Other best-selling Authors who have \\"co-authored\\" books that have gotten a marginal or strongly negative reception, heads up, \\"Blue Gold\\" is how it's  done.<br />This was not quite a five star read but the quality of the book  that Mr. Cussler has put his name on and given to fans is not the  compromised mess that other established stars of the genre have dealt  recently. And while the paternity of the book is apparent, the outrageous  \\"escape from Cuba in a bathtub\\" story lines have been toned down. They all  were fun reads; I just enjoyed this work, as it didn't stretch credulity on  every page. The result is this latest effort that I enjoyed as much as some  of Mr. Cussler's best work. I mean no slight to Mr. Kemprecos, as I have no  way of knowing to what degree he created this work, but whatever his  involvement, he deserves high marks.<br />The book is very tightly written,  well paced, and even though a bit less outlandish, is every bit as good as  the previous 16 bestsellers this storyteller has given readers. The series  while continuing more toward a stand-alone status still retains some  crossover, and in this case Admiral Sandecker and Hiram Yaeger were very  well integrated. This tale did not have a fairy tale ending, and for me  that added a great deal to the book.<br />The villain brought to mind an  extended Cruella DeVil, which these authors brought off very well when it  could have fallen flat. Per the book's description the \\"metal mouthed  morons\\" were bordering on the annoying, but didn't cross the line.<br />All  considered a well-done work worthy of a genre that Cussler can almost claim  as his own. That the book is priced at about half of what many hardcover  books demand, is a bonus. Unlike some others who have attempted this new  outlet for their work, I hope Mr. Cussler and Mr. Kemprecos produce many  more.<br />The book is a nice bonus as it arrived within days of Mr. Cussler  successfully bringing ashore the Confederate submarine \\"Hunley\\" which had  lain on the ocean floor for almost 150 years.which had  lain on the ocean floor for almost 150 years.	2000-08-12
2328832:US	53047425	RFH326WKROFOE	0679753117	39429774	Dead Lagoon: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Aurelio Goes Home	I have been drawn to this series as this is the fourth \\"Zen Mystery\\" I have read recently. For any readers new to these books all the installments  are available except \\"Cabal\\", which Amazon shows scheduled for release next  month. Nothing I have read so far has suffered from my out of sequence  start, but as in any series there are references to prior events that would  make the reader more comfortable with the history of the character, if  known. The Author Michael Dibdin gives at least a sketch of what has  happened if not the details, so starting with the most recent book, as I  did, was still very enjoyable.<br />\\"Dead Lagoon\\" brings the protagonist back  home, to the City of Venice, the Zen Family house, and a Venice in  political turmoil that welcomes only those Venetians that meet their  criteria. While this book continues the investigative mystery that is the  core of these books, Mr. Dibdin coils a second plot line that is  politically based in to the narrative. While it is not as distinct an  element, the latter half of 20th Century Venetian History is also  intertwined.<br />The subsequent books will tell, but I believe this is a  turning point in the development of Aurelio Zen. As he has in the past he  winds up in the middle of a crime, but the practical realities of right and  wrong, are blurred by who the victim is, what childhood friends are  involved, and other issues long thought to be laid to rest that come back  to make Zen's world even more chaotic. And as in the other works, Zen is  forced to deal with his Mother who has no use for anyone or anything, when  her boy leaves her alone in Rome.<br />Different from the others I have read,  but still very worthy of the time spent.	2000-08-10
2329344:US	53047425	R2MMXLUGEFAEP0	0192100289	424220149	The Moonstone (Oxford World's Classics Hardcovers)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Where the genre began	Wilkie Collins is considered by many to be the &quot;Inventor&quot; of the modern mystery. I state this not as an absolute, rather as a commonly held  literary opinion. Other reviewers often refer to Mr. Collins in a review of  a Charles Palliser Novel, or many others who are at the top of the Mystery  Genre today. Mr. Collins was also a contemporary, literary collaborator,  and business partner of another rather well known writer, Charles  Dickens.<br />This book later would influence the novel that Charles Dickens  was never to complete \\"The Mystery Of Edwin Drood\\" due to his death in the  midst of writing what was his final novel. There was a common denominator  in these novels and it related to a drug, Laudanum. Mr. Collins was a user  of the substance however I have never read of Mr. Dickens also having used  the drug. When preparing for the book he was never to finish, Collins took  Dickens to the opium dens of London, whether or not Dickens participated is  a mystery along with the ending of his final work.<br />Laudanum is a key  factor in the mystery of the \\"Moonstone\\" that the book revolves around.  Collins wanted to write a story that would be directly impacted by the use  of the drug on a person or persons, with or without their knowledge, and  how their behavior would be affected during a dramatic event while under  the influence.<br />Mr. Collins as mentioned was a consumer of this drug, when  he set out to write the book he stated, \\"he would write the story as it  would have happened, not how it may have happened\\". He was referring to his  own experiences with the opiate, which takes an already complicated plot  and adds the altered behavior Laudanum can have.  The book is as complex as  Palliser's \\"Quincunx\\", but I find it easier to follow \\"Moonstone\\".<br />To the  extent you feel a familiarity with the Author it may be because so much of  what is written today is derivative. The \\"Diamond\\" that plays center stage  in this work during the England of Queen Victoria was astonishingly \\"new\\"  when published. I believe were it published again today under a new title  and Author, it would be found again on the Bestseller Lists, as it was over  a century ago,<br />Mr. Collins writes with an elegant hand, which immerses  the reader and binds him or her to the characters and the roles they play.  The book is not brief as this was a time when Authors wrote as much as was  needed, not what was allowed or could potentially be shown at the local  multiplex.<br />From the moment the diamond is found, and the story unfolds,  clearly for some, less clearly for those who may have been influenced by  something other than the dinner wine, the book will delight any reader of  Mysteries. If Mr. Collins was not the absolute first to write a modern  mystery, he certainly has yet to be surpassed by any other's pen.ueen Victoria was astonishingly \\"new\\"  when published. I believe were it published again today under a new title  and Author, it would be found again on the Bestseller Lists, as it was over  a century ago,<br />Mr. Collins writes with an elegant hand, which immerses  the reader and binds him or her to the characters and the roles they play.  The book is not brief as this was a time when Authors wrote as much as was  needed, not what was allowed or could potentially be shown at the local  multiplex.<br />From the moment the diamond is found, and the story unfolds,  clearly for some, less clearly for those who may have been influenced by  something other than the dinner wine, the book will delight any reader of  Mysteries. If Mr. Collins was not the absolute first to write a modern  mystery, he certainly has yet to be surpassed by any other's pen.	2000-08-10
2330442:US	53047425	RGE8P690QV62B	0670892076	259855300	Hungry for Home: Leaving the Blaskets - A Journey from the Edge of Ireland	Books	3	23	36	N	N	The stars are for the first two thirds of the book	How do you take a story that has all the elements of a wonderful book, put  the writing in the hands of a clearly talented and capable Author, place a  jacket around the work that is as gorgeous a piece of real estate as any  ever photographed, and have the result be disheartening? Mr. Moreton did  this either by associating himself with an event he knew nothing of, which  makes him guilty of bad research, or an event he indeed knew the details  of, which makes his judgment questionable either alternative is  careless/reckless.<br />The visual setting of this story will be familiar to  many as both the movies \\"Ryan's Daughter\\" and \\"Far And Away\\" were filmed in  the area. What is unusual is that an individual who is not Irish is telling  this Irish tale. The only reason this is noteworthy is that he is English,  and the History of the two Countries is less than amicable.<br />I am not  suggesting that every individual of both Countries echoes the policies of  the Government they live under. I just found it interesting, just as those  publishing the book.<br />The story of those that were the final people to  leave The Blasket Islands is a wonderful story albeit painful, remorseful,  and full of what might have been if only someone had taken an interest. It  may be more accurately stated that if Eamon deValera had made good on his  word to these people the story would never need to be written, and one less  sad Irish tale told.<br />These people on The Blasket Islands lived there for  centuries, and if the book is accurate, a more difficult place to carve out  an existence is hard to imagine. An event acted as a catalyst for the last  to leave, and also for the book to turn from a five star read, to a book  that often became mean spirited.<br />The people that left these Islands  largely settled in Springfield Massachusetts, and so the Author traced  their trail, to the extent the remainders of their route would allow. The  Author spoke with many people, mostly descendents of the original Islanders  but also the few that remain to tell the story first hand. And it is on  this side of the Atlantic where the book transforms from a tribute to a  rugged group that refused to quit until death was the only alternative, to  an often mean spirited commentary from some of those being  interviewed.<br />The reader listens to conversations that classify a variety  of immigrant groups, and just as the former Irish immigrants were not  always welcomed they too decide to continue the withholding of the welcome  mat.<br />I grew up with the Irish, and while all groups have imperfections,  the people I knew were decent people, who if they had an unkind word, the  last place they would have shared it would have been in a book. Their  social lives were not based upon Country of Origin, they did not  financially support terrorists, and they did not shame themselves with  public displays of imbecility.<br />The Author needed to make a distinction,  and he failed. The people of The Blasket Islands largely emigrated here as  recently as 50 years ago. Despite this the Author tries to place their  History with those that arrived in the mid 19th Century. It is not a  question of quality but of life experience. The immigrants that came a  century later were very different in terms of what they had experienced in  Ireland. It is natural they would either have unique feelings, or thoughts  that were modified from the earlier immigrants 100 years before them.  To  suggest emigrants from a given Country, no matter what Century they arrived  somehow all are alike is to do a disservice to the people involved.dents of the original Islanders  but also the few that remain to tell the story first hand. And it is on  this side of the Atlantic where the book transforms from a tribute to a  rugged group that refused to quit until death was the only alternative, to  an often mean spirited commentary from some of those being  interviewed.<br />The reader listens to conversations that classify a variety  of immigrant groups, and just as the former Irish immigrants were not  always welcomed they too decide to continue the withholding of the welcome  mat.<br />I grew up with the Irish, and while all groups have imperfections,  the people I knew were decent people, who if they had an unkind word, the  last place they would have shared it would have been in a book. Their  social lives were not based upon Country of Origin, they did not  financially support terrorists, and they did not shame themselves with  public displays of imbecility.<br />The Author needed to make a distinction,  and he failed. The people of The Blasket Islands largely emigrated here as  recently as 50 years ago. Despite this the Author tries to place their  History with those that arrived in the mid 19th Century. It is not a  question of quality but of life experience. The immigrants that came a  century later were very different in terms of what they had experienced in  Ireland. It is natural they would either have unique feelings, or thoughts  that were modified from the earlier immigrants 100 years before them.  To  suggest emigrants from a given Country, no matter what Century they arrived  somehow all are alike is to do a disservice to the people involved.	2000-08-09
2331637:US	53047425	R1ALV6FAIJED61	067976853X	743379308	Vendetta: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	4	29	33	N	N	If you lament there will be no more	No Author will ever replace Mario Puzo; his body of work featuring the  Corleone Family is a literary, as well as a cinematic classic. For those  readers in search of material that is as excellent in its own way, and  takes place entirely in Italy, Michael Dibdin's \\"Aurelio Zen\\" series will  take its own place in the genre Mr. Puzo introduced to so many readers  years ago.<br />\\"Vendetta\\" is the second book in this series and the setting  is Sardinia. A dinner party is interrupted when someone with a shotgun  appears, and abruptly ends the evening's festivities. A man who said, \\"If  anyone gets in, I will believe in ghosts\\", designed the security system. No  ghost handles a shotgun, and after Italy's equivalent of SWAT Teams can  find no way in, the enigma is set.<br />I have commented at length on why I  find Mr. Dibdin to be such a talented writer when I reviewed his newest  book \\"Blood Rain\\" and his first book \\"Ratking\\". I will not be totally  repetitive, but I will note that one of the keys to enjoying this Author's  work is his ability to sustain your interest with a variety of possible  outcomes to the very end. His stories are constructed like a maze, and as  Sardinia is a maze both above and below ground, the setting is perfect.<br />A  very, very good series!	2000-08-08
2332060:US	53047425	R1XMN3ECD9G29O	0679768548	900605396	Ratking (An Aurelio Zen Mystery)	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Matryoshka Mystery	Instead of those wooden dolls that nest one inside the other, Michael  Dibdin creates a story line, which offers not only a variety of possible  solutions, but also an unknown number of suspects and motives. And just  like the dolls I mention, until you open the final one, you don't know how  many there are, or what finally lies in the nest's core.<br />I have read the  bookends of the Aurelio Zen series by this talented Author, firstly his  newest \\"Blood Rain\\", and the inaugural book in the series \\"Ratking\\".  Although I cannot yet comment on the installments that reside between these  two books, unlike some ongoing character based novels, the last was as good  as the first.<br />One of Mr. Dibdin's great talents is his ability to sustain  the unknown, or the uncertainty of the solution to his books to the very  end. He does not use crude blind alleys or other clich&eacute; slights of hand  with his pen, rather he brings the reader along with Aurelio, seeing what  he sees, but not limiting the reader to only what the Inspector may feel.  There is no blatant misdirection, which by definition fools no one, Mr.  Dibdin is much more subtle.  In \\"Ratking\\" he constructs a Gordian Knot, of  rat tails/tales, and unlike the Ratking the book describes, he unravels his  construct with a self deprecating flair. Unlike other Authors he does not  throw open a curtain and hope for the expected gasp, he entertains  throughout his work. His novels are wonderfully complete, and amazingly  brief. His stories are not based on one clever thought that is then pulled  and stretched to novel length. His stories are finished, and written with a  disciplined hand.<br />This Author has no need for gimmicks; he is a Master  with a pen, a wordsmith of the first order.	2000-08-08
2333466:US	53047425	R5BWM2VL7SNVP	1860465153	967791524	Lenin's Embalmers	Books	4	14	15	N	N	If you want something really different	I have read so many books about the Former Soviet Union, that I would  probably not realize I had read some of them, until I had read into the  books for some length. This book by Ilya Zbarsky \\"Lenin's Embalmers\\" is not  one you will forget.<br />The book is not ghoulish nor is it sensational; it  is an incredible story about an exceptional event and profession. The book  is primarily about the initial embalming, and the decades of maintenance  upon Lenin's corpse that have followed. The book is made much more  interesting, as the Author meshes the story of Lenin's remains with Soviet  History as he and his Family experienced it. The Author also includes the  History of the tomb itself, from the earliest designs, through the  modifications it has gone through over the years. Architectural drawings as  well as construction photographs are included.<br />The book maintains that  all of Lenin was initially preserved, and contrary to persistent rumors,  that the entire body has remained intact. Whether or not the book is  convincing on these points, I leave to other readers. This really is a  great offbeat read. It also is a serious explanation of the History, not a  tabloid distortion.	2000-08-07
2336422:US	53047425	R1K0FPK1Z8M7S4	1570362777	663102061	Level 4: Virus Hunters of the Cdc	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Remarkable	Biologic agents, viruses, and the weapons they can be used with, have become common themes for movies and books. The Centers For Disease Control  in Atlanta Georgia has also become a frequently mentioned locale as the HIV  Virus grew in scope, and with it the public's concern. The accounts of some  of these Viruses seemed almost like science fiction, as the descriptions I  read often seemed on the edge of hyperbole. This volume by two \\"virus  hunters\\" is eminently readable by the layperson as it explains the basics  about, what a virus is, how they spread, and how horrible the consequences  of infection can be.<br />Dr. Joseph B. McCormick and Dr Susan Fisher-Hoch are  as amazing as people as the diseases they pursue. These doctors when in the  field often perform tests that would normally only be performed in a Level  4 Laboratory. This is a facility that is isolated, at times in a separate  building, includes airlocks, and the researchers wear the pressurized suits  movies have portrayed. Level 4 is as high as it goes, or perhaps better  stated, Level 4 is where the most lethal, dangerous, and exotic agents are  to be worked with. These Doctors however will work with these same agents  in a tent or in the open, in the most primitive conditions where the  tiniest of errors could mean their death.<br />As a reference point I went to  the Centers For Disease Control website to see where HIV is placed on the  1-4 scale. HIV except for certain circumstances is handled in a Level 2  environment. This put into perspective for me just how incredibly violent  and lethal are the agents these people deal with.<br />The book gives a great  deal of background on HIV from the earliest days it was identified.  Hemorrhagic fever viruses are discussed in detail, as well as specific  discussions of Ebola, Lassa fever, and others.<br />The entire book is  fascinating and at times surprising. These Level 4 killers are not new,  their emergence is primarily the result of humans venturing where they have  never been, or interacting with the environment in a novel manner. The book  eloquently explains that these viruses are not lurking waiting to pounce on  the first person that passes by, rather they exist in a biological balance  with their natural host, until disturbed.<br />You will read about accidents  when these toxins are handled, why these diseases that are so virulent, so  deadly, don't race around the globe. This is an extremely engrossing read,  as everyday \\"man\\" is pushing the limits of what is manipulated, what  structures we may be able to modify, but cannot with certainty handle. And  there is always the fear of creating an event over which control is lost  with catastrophic events.<br />Better than any novel this book is true. Those  who often were the first to identify and deal with the disease tell the  stories, and finally they are scientists, so what you read are facts, not  the embellishments of a novelist. These viruses need not modified for  fictional movies and books the reality is horrible enough.ring where they have  never been, or interacting with the environment in a novel manner. The book  eloquently explains that these viruses are not lurking waiting to pounce on  the first person that passes by, rather they exist in a biological balance  with their natural host, until disturbed.<br />You will read about accidents  when these toxins are handled, why these diseases that are so virulent, so  deadly, don't race around the globe. This is an extremely engrossing read,  as everyday \\"man\\" is pushing the limits of what is manipulated, what  structures we may be able to modify, but cannot with certainty handle. And  there is always the fear of creating an event over which control is lost  with catastrophic events.<br />Better than any novel this book is true. Those  who often were the first to identify and deal with the disease tell the  stories, and finally they are scientists, so what you read are facts, not  the embellishments of a novelist. These viruses need not modified for  fictional movies and books the reality is horrible enough.	2000-08-05
2337042:US	53047425	RY1Y556MBLLJW	0151005788	502946694	Sudden Times	Books	5	23	26	N	N	I have never read anything like this	One of the best books I have read this year is Jeffrey Lent's \\"In the  Fall\\". So when I read the appraisal of this Author's work not only by Mr.  Jeffrey Lent, but Roddy Doyle, and others, I thought the chance I was  taking on an Author new to me was minimal. The man who wrote this book, Mr.  Dermot Healy, has produced a work that will be on any short list of  favorites from 2000 I will have. This book is unique and unconventional it  is extraordinary. Some of the commercial commentators felt the need to go  beyond what the jacket provides, and into events in the book. That decision  was unnecessary, but thankfully it in no way detracts from the book. There  are no simple explanations for this work, and were the story line known to  you, because of the way Mr. Healy delivers his tale, little would be lost.  This is a book that can be read and read again.<br />The book is written in  the first person and that is about the only conventional aspect of it. The  book is laid out in an eclectic manner. Actually it is presented in a  bewildering pattern less structure that initially left me lost. Going back  and reading a passage again does not help, because the subject of the book  is lost, and the Author puts to paper the thoughts of what a person in the  various frames of mind this individual goes through, would look like were  thoughts visible. Once you get in step with the Author and his character  everything makes sense, what seemed random is not, what was seemingly  fragmented becomes perfectly assembled. This book does not say what it is  like to feel a certain emotion; it causes the reader to feel as though he  or she was experiencing the events themselves. The feeling when the book is  read goes beyond the vicarious to something more akin to immersion.<br />The  Author then demonstrates how masterfully and with what range he can craft  language, how versatile he is, when, toward the end he lays down courtroom  conflict between defense counsel and witnesses that is as well done as any  such exchanges I have read. The dialogue is sharp, terse, and delivered in  a hyperactive exchange. The Author demonstrates with ease what so many  crime story pretenders struggle to produce and generally fail.<br />The book  is brilliant, the Author a writer of incredible range, and he offers a  reading experience you will not forget, and one that you will be hard  pressed to repeat.s as well done as any  such exchanges I have read. The dialogue is sharp, terse, and delivered in  a hyperactive exchange. The Author demonstrates with ease what so many  crime story pretenders struggle to produce and generally fail.<br />The book  is brilliant, the Author a writer of incredible range, and he offers a  reading experience you will not forget, and one that you will be hard  pressed to repeat.	2000-08-05
2337490:US	53047425	R3NGE0YGUO4R3V	0375500065	456765327	God Is My Broker : A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 1/2 Laws of Spiritual and Financial Growth	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The secrets of self help books revealed.	Christopher Buckley is an accomplished writer of several genres, although  his humor and wit when committed to paper are very special, and at times  especially sharp edged. Sharp, as only a quick intellect, a novel view on  life, and a willingness to bring humor where others fear to tread can be.  As the Son of one of the most accomplished men of letters, he has created a  style that is all his own, and which frequently, one imagines, causes  Buckley The Elder to wince.<br />The photo on the inside of the jacket is a  good visual summary of Mr. Buckley and John Tierney as could be staged.  Taken, I believe, in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral a monk enigmatically  robed and seated in the back of a limo, resembles one of the cloaked Jedi  Knights of Star Wars fame. No Jedi he, as this is the Brother Ty that will  lead you, the reader, to riches. Bracketed on either side of the Monk,  stand the authors; both nattily dressed, raising their glasses of wine,  more as a challenge than a salute. I am not familiar with Mr. Tierney's  work, but whatever he contributed to this book is very well done.<br />Divine  inspiration guides Brother Ty as he seeks to replenish the coffers of the  Monastery he has joined, after alcohol and his failure as a stockbroker  brought him to a contemplative life. However what he finds is an Order that  is rapidly becoming extinct, the Monks are on food stamps, the treasury  depleted, and it falls to him to save it.<br />What follows is a wickedly  written satire on self-help books in general, and those that concentrate on  business in particular.  But this book is different, for it is infused with  the divine, and as He created the world in 6 days and then rested, His  picking of stocks and commodities not only is a sure play, it is here for  all to learn.<br />Another great work from Mr. Buckley, this time with his  co-conspirator, Mr. Tierney.	2000-08-04
2338510:US	53047425	R3U94PK33LI50X	0810927691	596402222	Unknown Terrain: The Landscapes of Andrew Wyeth	Books	5	37	39	N	N	What the text says, or what you see?	When you view the work of an artist, who is to be the arbiter of what, in  this case the painting is about, what it means? Do you turn to the  Professional Art Critic, Art History Majors, you the viewer, or the man or  woman who created the work? In this case the Artist is well and painting,  and his thoughts about his work are many and well documented.<br />This book  on the paintings of Andrew Wyeth focuses primarily on the media of  watercolor and drybrush as opposed to the egg tempera paintings that are  the medium for so many of his most famous works. Mr. Wyeth takes up to 6  months for a tempera work, and completes as few as 2-4 a year. The images  in this book are produced by the hundreds, and over his career amount to  literally thousands of images. This book discusses and publishes many  images that have never been publicly shown, and uses this body of work to  advance various ideas.<br />The book is a valuable addition to those who are  admirers of his work, the opinions that are expressed by people other than  the artist, are either critical to the book on one extreme, or mostly  ridiculous from where I sit.<br />Andrew Wyeth has been a target for the  self-proclaimed tastemakers of Art for one reason; his art is widely  admired, collected, and highly valued. These elements automatically qualify  him for criticism that is so absurd; it adds a comedic aspect to the text.  Then there are those who do love his work but feel they must demonstrate  that, yes, he is what the critics say he is not, and even more!<br />The text  did help me understand more about the method by which Mr. Wyeth creates  these works, and the role they sometimes play in a major tempera piece. I  loved his work before this book, and will continue to regardless of what  \\"they\\" have to say. The only individual whose comments matter are Mr.  Wyeth's. His thoughts are documented; I don't see the need for others to  presume they know better than he what he paints, and what his intent was  when he created the work.<br />The book is great for the new images it brings  to the public. Everything about the construction of the book is as good as  you will find in a commercial publication, and the color plates are  excellent. As to the text, that is left for you to decide, I am placing the  stars above for the Artist and his work, not for what others have to say  about it.hen he created the work.<br />The book is great for the new images it brings  to the public. Everything about the construction of the book is as good as  you will find in a commercial publication, and the color plates are  excellent. As to the text, that is left for you to decide, I am placing the  stars above for the Artist and his work, not for what others have to say  about it.	2000-08-04
2339244:US	53047425	RLFQDF32XZ7EA	0847816192	560926190	Robert A. M. Stern: Buildings and Projects 1987-1992	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Counter-factual comment on my wish list.	Everyone has his or her own what-if scenarios and Mr. Robert A. M. Stern  would play a central role in mine. For some people it's cars, or planes,  houses, or paintings by the Old Masters. In my case the list is all of the  above. So were I ever to make the Fortune 500, a home by one of the  Greatest Architects would top the list.<br />This book covers a relatively  short period of this Artist's career, specifically 1987-1992. It also  happens to include many projects that were built in New England where I  live. I had seen some of his work in person, and other examples in  magazines, but it wasn't until I did some research that I found he was  responsible for nearly all the projects I had so enjoyed. Many know one  project in Massachusetts as Mr. Stern designed the Norman Rockwell Museum  in the Berkshire Hills of Stockbridge. He also designed several buildings  for Disney in Orlando, as well as numerous Colleges, and residences both  urban and rural.<br />There is a fairly good chance his work is known to many  readers because of some of the project's locales and the frequency that so  many Americans visit them. While walking in a city with towers looming  above it is often impossible to get far enough away to see what is blocking  out the sun, this book solves that problem. And chances are Mr. Stern's  work is not preventing the sun from reaching you, as his designs seem to  belong where they are. His work and the surrounding areas accommodate each  other as opposed to many Architects whose goal is to leave their mark. Once  you become familiar with his work you will see the statements made by his  buildings leave as strong an impression as any. Mr. Stern is a master  designer, and his elegant, classically influenced work stands out because  of what it is as opposed to how tall, how ostentatious, or how  intrusive.<br />Even if you have never thought of picking up a book featuring  the work of an Architect, I suggest if you do, this is a great place to  start, and will not disappoint. His work is accessible; it is not the 15  minutes of fame trendy nonsense that is as silly and pretentious as it is  transient.d will not disappoint. His work is accessible; it is not the 15  minutes of fame trendy nonsense that is as silly and pretentious as it is  transient.	2000-08-03
2339283:US	53047425	R3KAWEDKVXZWUU	0966446100	559842338	The Essays of Warren Buffett: Lessons for Corporate America	Books	5	127	137	N	N	Time extremely well invested.	I cannot imagine that Mr. Warren Buffet is not on any investor's top 10 list of the greatest investors since there were markets in this Country. I  would also suggest that a dispassionate appraisal of his performance argues  quite eloquently that he is the best to have ever amassed his fortune, and  that of his shareholders on Wall Street.<br />Thanks to the efforts of Mr.  Lawrence A. Cunningham readers have access to essays that previously were  available primarily to shareholders, and which are organized in this book  thematically for the first time. Annual reports are generally easy to come  by, however as I write, 1 Share Of Berkshire Hathaway \\"A\\" requires  $59,900.00, and the \\"Baby Berkshires\\" $1,966.00 per share. Many are quick  to respond the price is so high as Mr. Buffet has not split the stock,  ever. But what is more important is why he has never done this. This book  explains his theory on this matter, and dozens of others.<br />Mr. Buffet has  his critics, they range from the idiotic, \\"he's lucky\\", \\"his success allows  him to make attractive deals\\", and to those who feel he missed the money  that was made in tech stocks. As for the luck theory, who else has earned  23.8% compounded annually for over 25 years? Winning the lottery is  probably more likely an event. As to the attractive deals his wealth is  said to facilitate, I guess the answer is, is the questioner serious? He  made what he has, his reputation allowed him to have the Federal Government  allow Solomon Brothers to continue participating in the bond market based  on one thing, his word! This is a man who has rescinded very successful  trades because news arrived within days of his buying that could have given  the appearance of his having had information others were not privy  to.<br />This book has more useful information and ideas that have been proven  over decades than any 10 hot Business Books of the moment. Mr. Buffet has  had off years, but he has never gone bust.<br />One of my favorite stories is  when he was hanging out with friends as a kid, his pals were collecting  bottles for the deposit. He was collecting bottle caps, sorting them, and  determining who was drinking what brand! He clearly was put amongst us for  a reason.<br />On a time invested basis there is no better or more rewarding  reading than these essays. No one can match what he has accomplished, why  would someone not wish to hear what he has to say on dozens of topics?vorite stories is  when he was hanging out with friends as a kid, his pals were collecting  bottles for the deposit. He was collecting bottle caps, sorting them, and  determining who was drinking what brand! He clearly was put amongst us for  a reason.<br />On a time invested basis there is no better or more rewarding  reading than these essays. No one can match what he has accomplished, why  would someone not wish to hear what he has to say on dozens of topics?	2000-08-03
2339677:US	53047425	R3TH98GT4I5CCG	0802713319	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Think of the book as a great mystery	For if you are to approach this book as a work that will lead you to an  understanding of a theorem that took 350 years to solve, you might miss a  great tale. As others have stated, High School Math will suffice, and for  those who may be a bit rusty in Math in any event, the book is still very  much worthwhile. The book mentions that some of the Math is understood by  perhaps 5 people in the world. If high-level Math concepts were required to  enjoy this book, the Author could just have made half a dozen copies.<br />A  notation in a margin started 350 years of effort to solve, or rather prove  a theorem that Pierre de Fermat described thusly \\"I have discovered a truly  marvelous proof, which this margin is too narrow to contain\\". I recently  read a comment by Stephen Jay Gould that Mr. Fermat may not have known the  proof. His suggestion was that no amount of space allotted by any margin  would allow for the proof. I certainly am not qualified to question either  individual, but the space eventually used for the proof 356 years later by  Professor Andrew Wiles of Princeton may answer the query for you.<br />Math is  often put forth to show something that is universally true, a discipline  that transcends language, Nations, and their Cultures. Math \\"is\\" and always  will be, it allows for no opinion, it works or it does not. This book  exposes the reader to a lifetime fascination for Professor Wiles, as well  as the 7 years of near isolation it took to solve the mystery. If I  understood the text, there were actually requirements needed for the proof  that the mechanics for expressing those thoughts with Math did not exist,  for Professor Wiles or anyone else. He could not invent truths, but he, and  many who worked on this theorem for centuries were required to create new  tools, prove the new tools were indeed valid themselves, and then use them  to further their quest for the ultimate answer.<br />The book is also a  Historical work of the science and those that labored for the better part  of 4 centuries for the answer. It is a remarkable achievement, and it makes  for a great use of one's reading time. As for the Author Mr. Simon Singh,  he must be given tremendous thanks for his ability to bring this story to a  wide audience that otherwise would have had no access to the famous enigma  of Mr. Fermat.<br />Fascinating!labored for the better part  of 4 centuries for the answer. It is a remarkable achievement, and it makes  for a great use of one's reading time. As for the Author Mr. Simon Singh,  he must be given tremendous thanks for his ability to bring this story to a  wide audience that otherwise would have had no access to the famous enigma  of Mr. Fermat.<br />Fascinating!	2000-08-03
2340660:US	53047425	R35C38F2O8TWRK	0345428609	902573050	Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 4)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	James Luceno raises the bar on this series.	As with Mr. Greg Bear and \\"Rogue Planet\\", Mr. Luceno is another excellent  addition to the Authors who continue the Star Wars epic. I also will be  brief following the standard of the other person who has commented thus  far, and I hope others will as well. Please do not give away anything that  the covers of the book do not.<br />Han is back; the reader must decide which  incarnation of Han Solo has returned. Han has evolved so much through these  books, and no single event can match the death that Chewbacca's death had  upon him. But as the back of the cover states \\"Han becomes the.....he once  was\\". And with this persona so much of what fans have been missing is back,  in a manner of speaking.<br />This Author steps the level of writing up on  this book, as well as increasing the depth of some familiar old friends.  One of the most interesting aspects of the book is about awareness, what it  means, how each individual copes with it, and the implications it may have.  This plot line was totally unexpected, and in my opinion very well  done.<br />Mr. Luceno avoids the clich&eacute;s that most Authors embrace; he expands  the Organic Weaponry of The New Republic's Enemy in new and clever ways,  and clearly makes his mark as a top tier writer for the Star Wars  World.<br />I feel fans will really enjoy this installment.	2000-08-03
2341964:US	53047425	R2XRYE8WVL9MJN	0195124820	504328193	The Better Angel: Walt Whitman in the Civil War	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Without a conventional weapon, he fought his own war	While I am not a frequent reader of poetry, I am enamored with both History and Biography, and that is what drew my interest to \\"The Better  Angel\\" by Mr. Roy Morris Jr. My knowledge of this Country's notable poets  and their work is a void in my reading. Were there to be more books written  in this manner it is a gap I believe that would be lessened.<br />I did not  expect to read Mr. Whitman's work to any extent as I thought this was a  biography of a time period in the poet's life. Mr. Morris does indeed share  a great deal about a familiar name in American Literature; he also  selectively uses the work of Mr. Whitman, and finally places it all within  the context of the deadliest war this Country has ever  fought.<br />Approximately 750,00 died in our Civil War. The numbers were so  astronomically high due to the nature of the fighting, the ammunition used,  and the medical profession's ignorance of even the most basic hygiene,  infection, the inability to care for those wounded expeditiously, and the  use of medicines that poisoned as often as they helped.  Dysentery killed  100,000; one particularly virulent infection, Pyemia claimed 97.4% of those  infected. Tetanus was also responsible for killing 89% of its victims. I  take the space to mention these statistics, as this was the environment  that Mr. Whitman made a major part of his life for years, and many consider  this same commitment caused his lingering illnesses and finally his  death.<br />While it is true he introduced many to ice cream, brought with him  countless small gifts, including a requested toothpick, his time and the  comfort he gave to these soldiers made him a hero to thousands forever. All  too many times his act was to sit with the dying so that they did not do so  alone. He wrote countless letters for those too injured or unable to do so  for themselves. He visited the families of some who had been slain.<br />He  was a man torn by his personal feelings about the war, the price it  exacted, and what was bought. The man was very complex in his thoughts and  the angst and contradiction he was forced to deal with. He had a Brother  who fought for nearly the entire war, was for a time a prisoner but  ultimately survived. He Family in New York included a Mother he loved, and  a Brother who slipped into madness and violence as the disease that  consumed him advanced.<br />This is not a lengthy book, but it provides a  well-written documentary on a portion of this famous man's life. It puts  some of his work into the context from which it was created, and how the  same circumstances so affected the poet.<br />There was one facet of Mr.  Whitman that was mentioned and associated so many times that it began to  sound defensive. I suggest this part of the man need not be defended, as it  did not add or subtract from his deeds, and while it certainly was part of  his writing, his works were not the focus of this book.<br />Long after Mr.  Whitman died he lived on in the children grateful soldiers had named after  him who lived from Syracuse New York to Kentucky, and one imagines many  points between.cted, and what was bought. The man was very complex in his thoughts and  the angst and contradiction he was forced to deal with. He had a Brother  who fought for nearly the entire war, was for a time a prisoner but  ultimately survived. He Family in New York included a Mother he loved, and  a Brother who slipped into madness and violence as the disease that  consumed him advanced.<br />This is not a lengthy book, but it provides a  well-written documentary on a portion of this famous man's life. It puts  some of his work into the context from which it was created, and how the  same circumstances so affected the poet.<br />There was one facet of Mr.  Whitman that was mentioned and associated so many times that it began to  sound defensive. I suggest this part of the man need not be defended, as it  did not add or subtract from his deeds, and while it certainly was part of  his writing, his works were not the focus of this book.<br />Long after Mr.  Whitman died he lived on in the children grateful soldiers had named after  him who lived from Syracuse New York to Kentucky, and one imagines many  points between.	2000-08-02
2348766:US	53047425	R26E62XUFVBKKD	0395670292	908326568	Lost Moon: The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13	Books	5	50	55	N	N	More remarkable than movie	Apollo 13 is one of History's great voyages regardless of how long one extends the time frame into the past. If the mission had transpired faultlessly, it still would have qualified for the astonishing, remarkable  achievement it would have been. With the malfunctions that cascaded upon  the 3 crewmen, they, together with the men and women on the ground, created  their own miracle when the splashdown with the 3 crewmembers was completed.  The return, in spite of the overwhelming odds that were against them,  places this trip in category of great human achievement, even as it is  hoped it never need be repeated.<br />One fact helped to put the trip into  perspective for me. If you have a hand held calculator nearby, pick it up.  The chances are the computing power you hold in your hand surpasses that  available to the crew in their effort to come home. The movie demonstrated  this with slid rules and math completed with paper and pencil. The whole  event is almost unimaginable.<br />The book is worth reading because as hard  as it may be to fathom, the actual trip was even more hazardous, the  problems even more numerous than the movie portrayed. I am not suggesting  the movie was flawed, only that it was limited by time for telling the  entire story.<br />I met Mr. John L. Swigert when I was quite young. My  memories are limited but I have a picture that was taken with him that is a  treasure. Several years ago I heard Mr. Jim Lovell speak, and his remarks  confirmed that the actual trip held hazards the movie did not depict. As he  related parts of the story the impression was of a man who was always in  control, a leader, and utterly confident in the men he flew with, and those  they relied so heavily upon at Houston and other ground facilities. There  was nothing about him that gave the impression that what he did was  special. He is part of that \\"Greatest Generation\\", and he represents that  group faultlessly.<br />I was able to meet him after the dinner, and I had my  photo of Mr. Swigert with me. He was as cordial as anyone could be. There  was no artifice about him, no sense that he was special. He took time to  chat both with me, and a young man who also was at the dinner.<br />Speaking  and listening to him, you felt that you were in the presence of someone who  was unique, not only for his remarkable career in the service of his  Country, but for the man he was. He is a hero. I cannot describe the  feeling of speaking with him, but I hope everyone has a chance to meet such  a man. When you stand next to him, you stand next to History in all its  splendor and modesty.<br />The book tells a story that happened only once, and  cannot happen the same way again. If you were on the edge of your seat  during the movie, the book is no different. If you feel lightheaded, it's  because you have forgotten to breathe.had my  photo of Mr. Swigert with me. He was as cordial as anyone could be. There  was no artifice about him, no sense that he was special. He took time to  chat both with me, and a young man who also was at the dinner.<br />Speaking  and listening to him, you felt that you were in the presence of someone who  was unique, not only for his remarkable career in the service of his  Country, but for the man he was. He is a hero. I cannot describe the  feeling of speaking with him, but I hope everyone has a chance to meet such  a man. When you stand next to him, you stand next to History in all its  splendor and modesty.<br />The book tells a story that happened only once, and  cannot happen the same way again. If you were on the edge of your seat  during the movie, the book is no different. If you feel lightheaded, it's  because you have forgotten to breathe.	2000-07-28
2350908:US	53047425	R1OBXABC55YT1Z	0805053131	712956646	The Famine Ships: The Irish Exodus to America	Books	4	63	68	N	N	The message is what matters	I make no apologies for the structural defects of this book, nor do I mean to suggest they should be ignored. They deserve criticism. Grammatical errors and poor editing are never welcome, however with History a factual  mistake or contradiction is at best never acceptable, and at its worst can  cause credibility to be questioned. I still recommend this book as the  errors do not negate the events that took place, and as frustrating as they  may be, they do not detract from the horror that was The Famine, nor the  conduct of those involved. That the book did not gain a wider audience,  possibly because of these faults is sad.<br />Ireland has been fertile ground  for reprehensible behavior by England for over 700 years. Ireland too, at  times has committed acts of violence via a variety of Catholic and  Protestant groups. The dead, wounded, and the mutilated are all that either  side has gained. The hatred exists to this day, and while violence has been  calmer of late, a great period of time must pass before memories fade and  forgiveness is accepted for apologies offered.<br />Prior to the ships in this  book becoming \\"Famine Ships\\" many plied another trade as \\"Slave Ships\\", it  is true that there were structural changes made, but beyond a certain point  conditions become inhuman, period. The Potato Blight is often the only, or  the primary reason given for the mass immigration that devastated the  island. The truth is always more complex, it is no different here.<br />While  starvation was rampant the food that was available, food grown right there  next to those that were starving was exported to England. The English  Landowners often paid for the cost of passage on these ships where so many  died. These ships did carry the victims of Famine like they had carried the  victims of slavery before. Transportation was almost secondary, how can it  be anything else when conditions are created that are deadly by definition.  It was cheaper to pay for transit than keep people alive on their ancestral  land. And if they left they no longer had any use for land, so it was  bought and accumulated by the same individuals that often paid for its  owner's permanent eviction.<br />Ireland today is experiencing the return of  some of the descendants of those that made that terrifying crossing. As a  nation it has become one of the most prosperous in Europe by many economic  standards, but that is not enough. Tolerance is not good enough, nor are  plans of peace that neither party believes in their heart to be fair. It  would be pleasant to site examples of hatred hardened by centuries of pain  that have been put aside and new beginnings made. Perhaps the newfound  economic health will help the process, perhaps not.<br />I hope for those who  live there, be they Catholic or Protestant, that a way is found in a  comparatively brief span of time to pause, heal, for apologies to be made,  and accepted.people alive on their ancestral  land. And if they left they no longer had any use for land, so it was  bought and accumulated by the same individuals that often paid for its  owner's permanent eviction.<br />Ireland today is experiencing the return of  some of the descendants of those that made that terrifying crossing. As a  nation it has become one of the most prosperous in Europe by many economic  standards, but that is not enough. Tolerance is not good enough, nor are  plans of peace that neither party believes in their heart to be fair. It  would be pleasant to site examples of hatred hardened by centuries of pain  that have been put aside and new beginnings made. Perhaps the newfound  economic health will help the process, perhaps not.<br />I hope for those who  live there, be they Catholic or Protestant, that a way is found in a  comparatively brief span of time to pause, heal, for apologies to be made,  and accepted.	2000-07-27
2352245:US	53047425	R18ZXRE78ELP6V	0590520806	693218761	The Fight for Truth (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 9)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	We are into the wilderness months, help!	Jude Watson writes a great story even while being constrained by a length that is predetermined. The last three books at 138, 134, and 137 pages respectively have got to diminish what she could do with these books if she  were allowed to write the length she required. Why Lucas would so handcuff  an Author mystifies me. I have yet to read a review that says these books  are too long. This trend seems to be showing in the other series as well,  and I find it disappointing.<br />If you have not brought yourself to reading  these books due to the ages suggested on the books, you are missing out on  Star Wars History in bits and pieces that do matter, and that I have not  come across anywhere else. At 38 I am well past the targeted group, but  with every new book more reviewers comments suggest any age level enjoys  these books.<br />This book breaks up the male dominated story lines which is  positive for the young female Jedi that have always been in the audience,  but have never had enough characters, especially Jedi, representing them in  the series.<br />My comment in the title is just a request. We have gone 15  months since Episode I and we have 22 months to endure to Episode II. How  about letting Ms. Watson and the other writers tell their stories with any  length they require. There were several issues in this book that got one  sentence treatment that deserved much more.<br />Even in their too short  format the books are fun, and tips about the future, and comments that tie  other formerly unknown topics together, always make these tales worthwhile.	2000-07-26
2354402:US	53047425	R201HS90OT5ZCU	0688158749	840016147	Sermons: Biblical Wisdom for Daily Living	Books	5	27	28	N	N	They are amongst the greatest users of language	The tragedy is most of what they \\"write\\" is never written down, it is delivered orally, the great news is that one of the best has written 40 of his, and created \\"Sermons\\". Mr. Peter J. Gomes has collected this group of  his sermons, and now people outside of his place of speaking may enjoy the  words of this great communicator.<br />I am not suggesting this book because a  member of the clergy has written it; religion is an individual and very  personal choice. I enjoyed this book as I feel some of the greatest users  of our language speak rather than write, or rather speak but with no  written record, and this is truly a loss. Whether or not the religious  denomination of which Mr. Gomes is a member that you have adopted as your  own, is not the reason to read this work. An appreciation of language is  all that is required.<br />Mr. Gomes is considered to be one of the finest  \\"Preachers\\" speaking today. I have never heard him speak, but if his  written words are any indication of his live presentations, they must be  special indeed. If you have never had the experience of being amongst those  present to hear one of these orators you have not enjoyed a singular  experience.<br />I have had the privilege of enjoying some sermons delivered  in tiny churches, in parts of our Country where I was the minority, and a  \\"Yankee\\" in a good-natured way. I attended what I had been raised to refer  to as Church in buildings that were anything but conventional Churches. I  was not in massive structures, in one case it was an old converted fire  station, in another a school. But the \\"Preachers\\" I heard were remarkable,  and while they most certainly are in the profession of spreading The  Message as their denomination practices it, they are unique purveyors of  the spoken, and in this case the written word.<br />The speeches of Mr. Gomes  are excellent reading, and regardless of your faith or lack thereof, you  will find more common sense ideas, and more useful information than you  will find in a dozen self-help books, be they personal or business. All of  these books I refer to can be accurately described as how to conduct  yourself as an employer, a manager, a person. None of these books hold any  great mysteries; none hold a thought that is not derivative. Being happy  with your life, running a company that retains employees because they have  no desire to move, being a positive contributor in any manner you choose,  all these manners of personal conduct are known to us all, placing them in  books that give them new names is just repackaging, it's not new. Want to  keep employees, guess what, treat them well. Want to be a better person,  listen more, the hundreds of books on how to behave are presentations of  what in many cases you already know.<br />I doubt that Mr. Gomes sets out to  create anything more than people who are more cognizant and sensitive to  those around them. But then that describes just about every self-help book,  personal or professional I have read.<br />Great reading from a brilliant  orator.you  will find in a dozen self-help books, be they personal or business. All of  these books I refer to can be accurately described as how to conduct  yourself as an employer, a manager, a person. None of these books hold any  great mysteries; none hold a thought that is not derivative. Being happy  with your life, running a company that retains employees because they have  no desire to move, being a positive contributor in any manner you choose,  all these manners of personal conduct are known to us all, placing them in  books that give them new names is just repackaging, it's not new. Want to  keep employees, guess what, treat them well. Want to be a better person,  listen more, the hundreds of books on how to behave are presentations of  what in many cases you already know.<br />I doubt that Mr. Gomes sets out to  create anything more than people who are more cognizant and sensitive to  those around them. But then that describes just about every self-help book,  personal or professional I have read.<br />Great reading from a brilliant  orator.	2000-07-25
2354634:US	53047425	R2M2R7RLEW7S3M	0786885416	783786804	The Hungry Ocean: A Swordboat Captain's Journey	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A remarkable Captain/fisherman/woman.	There are some people who seem to have a level of talent that is apparent in everything they do; there is nothing that resembles a veneer about them. Captain Greenlaw is an educated woman, when she is on her boat she is a  leader and the best fisherman plying her trade. So when she sits down to  tell her story, it is no surprise that she can write well. I would not  wager this is the last book we will have from her. I certainly hope there  are more.<br />I found her writing to emulate the way she runs her boat,  organized, meticulous, and without unnecessary baggage. And when she  related childhood memories, or shared dialogue, she related it as well or  better than Authors with many books to their name. Individuals who are  excellent at what they do are often said to appear to do their task  effortlessly. The book certainly was not an easy task for her, but there is  a vast difference between being simplistic and relating a portion of a  life. Embellishment is best left for ghostwritten memoirs and  autobiographies. There is nothing done to complicate her life's work, why  should her story diverge from that path?<br />The closest I have come to a  swordfish is with a fork, and it had long since been reduced from the  massive creatures these can be, to a sliver of these fish she hunts. She  and her crew define risk taking. They don't occasionally face lethal risk  or even frequently risk their lives they constantly make this wager. And  they do so not knowing whether they will make a dime for a month at sea in  conditions that most could tolerate for about an hour presuming the water  was calm, and seconds presuming 70 knot winds and the seas that follow  them.<br />The Captain and her crew are all remarkable people, their carousing  when on land for the 48 hours they have, to me, is not only mild, but tame  when you consider they lived through one more trip, and are to take one  more. Getting drunk for 1 or 2 days out of 30, and being dry for the  balance does not make any of these crew \\"booze soaked\\" as some have  suggested. If this were so Captain Greenlaw would not put her life in their  hands, or they in each other's.<br />This book, and the movie for those who  have seen it, dramatically change perceptions about many things we take for  granted. The next time you sit down to a dinner of fish, how can it not be  an event knowing that the capture of your dinner required the risking of  life. Captain don't misunderstand, I'll eat more to drive the price up, not  less!<br />Thanks for sharing your amazing story.make any of these crew \\"booze soaked\\" as some have  suggested. If this were so Captain Greenlaw would not put her life in their  hands, or they in each other's.<br />This book, and the movie for those who  have seen it, dramatically change perceptions about many things we take for  granted. The next time you sit down to a dinner of fish, how can it not be  an event knowing that the capture of your dinner required the risking of  life. Captain don't misunderstand, I'll eat more to drive the price up, not  less!<br />Thanks for sharing your amazing story.	2000-07-25
2355692:US	53047425	R2CETX7GVAID4N	0070267006	933631979	Moscow Madness: Crime, Corruption, and One Man's Pursuit of Profit in the New Russia	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Miller Time? Nyet..	This is one of, if not the most, entertaining business stories I have ever read. I have several friends from former Soviet Republics, including Russia, and the only thing they would find surprising about my reaction to this book, would be that I was surprised.<br />The former Soviet Union and now several of the Former Republics always have fascinated me. As I have come  to know some of its citizens I am less fascinated, but I am more  interested, less perplexed, and find the future of these Countries great  \\"what if\\" scenarios. A better-posited question might be when? Western  Capitalists have found the hard way that just because the new name is \\"The  Former Soviet Union\\" that does not mean 3 generations of dysfunctional  Soviet practices disappear. The idea that generations that have grown up  under Central Planning, artificial markets, and the rest of the elements  that create a fictional economy are going to adopt and practice Capitalism  instantly is absurd...former barriers fall, but they do not disappear, as many western investors  were to learn, they were just replaced with new obstacles.<br />I have nothing  but respect for Mr. Rick Grajirena. To even attempt what he did is beyond  the level of risk that 99% of American Businesses have taken or will ever  take. His business did not just have the exposure of failing, he put  himself at personal risk, and that is not something a Silicon Valley start  up faces. In Silicon Valley a roof keeps out the weather, in the case of  this businessman it keeps you alive. For in the Moscow he chose to do  business with, a roof has nothing to do with a building.<br />I think Mr.  Grajirena is one of the world's great optimists, and a man who defines  perseverance. Unfortunately these attributes are not what business is about  in Russia or many of The Former Republics...The natural and human resources that are part of the former  USSR are literally amazing. The wealth that could be created across the 14  time zones would be unprecedented... There are the  predators and the prey. This is worse as these are not Countries without  Governments; rather the Governments are the largest Predators of  all.<br />Breaking something is easy, but if you consider it took the better  part of the 20th Century to damage these Countries, what is the most  optimistic time period for them to be reassembled?unprecedented... There are the  predators and the prey. This is worse as these are not Countries without  Governments; rather the Governments are the largest Predators of  all.<br />Breaking something is easy, but if you consider it took the better  part of the 20th Century to damage these Countries, what is the most  optimistic time period for them to be reassembled?	2000-07-24
2356374:US	53047425	R88G05O6HHWY9	039565243X	16197237	The Good Nazi: The Life and Lies of Albert Speer	Books	4	37	49	N	N	He inflicted it upon countless people, but he escaped.	One of the great enigmas of The Nuremberg Trials from the reading I had done, was how Albert Speer escaped death, and instead went to prison and spent the better part of 2 decades a free man. Speer is known to many as  The Architect Of The Third Reich. Known for his heavy Neo-Classic designs,  he made for an ideal kindred spirit with the Corporal, who was a  frustrated/failed architect. He became the man that would design, and then  oversee construction of some of the largest, and some would say designs of  questionable artistic merit, until Berlin began to be reduced to the post  war rubble pile it was destined to become. Many of the planned buildings  and monuments would dwarf buildings even by today's standards. While the  war made redecorating the homes of the Nazi elite, and Hitler's projects  increasingly difficult and then impossible, Speer never lacked work.<br />The  net result of Speer's greatest contribution to the Nazi war effort was his  remarkable ability as a manager of production, which actually lengthened  the War. By any measure Speer was responsible for countless deaths that  otherwise would never have happened had he not been one of Hitler's  zealots, one of those mesmerized and totally loyal to the Corporal. The  production of war material actually increased under the direction of Speer,  and did so as the War was winding down. Production of weapons was actually  at some of its highest levels at various times later, rather than earlier  in the War.<br />None of the incredible feats of production he was able to  conjure despite seemingly hopeless odds, match the odds he beat when his  life was at a very high probability of ending at Nuremberg. How this Nazi  at the very highest echelons of power, a man who was a close confidant's of  the Corporal would survive the fate of his peers is the story that Mr. Dan  Van Der Velt shares in his work \\"The Good Nazi\\". I don't know if anyone was  offering odds of who would beat the hangman, but the odds Speer beat, have  to have made him was of the longest shots ever to come in a winner in  history.<br />There are those who say his \\"attempt\\" to kill Hitler, and his  refusal to follow orders for the destruction of Berlin mitigated the crimes  he was guilty of. These people would say that had he carried out all of the  final orders to destroy Berlin's infrastructure, it would have lengthened  the City's recovery, and brought additional suffering to the survivors. His  acts or lack of action in these respects in a purely pragmatic sense may  have mitigated some adverse results. But these have to be placed side by  side with his conduct for year after year as a very high ranking member of  Hitler's Staff, a man that did as he was told, who did not question  anything, until the outcome was crystal clear, and it was to his advantage  to do so.<br />Speer ran his factories with slave labor; he personally was  responsible for the rounding up and \\"resettlement\\" of 75,000 Jews from  Berlin at a minimum. He oversaw the factories, the brutal conditions, and  vicious punishments that were as much a part of his way of carrying out his  orders as any other high-ranking Nazi.<br />But this criminal's greatest  talent was as an actor, who played a role he had one chance at, and  anything other than a flawless performance would result in his death. Not  only did he cheat death, he spent the better part of 2 decades living as a  free man after serving a prison term in Spandau Prison. He was able to  convince his judges that \\"The Final Solution\\" was something he was ignorant  of, and to the extent he knew of any act of cruelty his was Germany's  Penitent.<br />Even after reading this account of Speer I find it incredible  that he accomplished the greatest scam of the war. I would like to think he  provided some incredible service that is unknown, so as to justify the  leniency this man was dealt with, some set of mitigating circumstances that  are almost unimaginable in light of the crimeshe did commit. I can find  none, I cannot find one, and I remain as baffled by his escape, if better  informed, than prior to reading this book. The work is extremely well done,  and my failure to understand what led to his lack of punishment in no way  reflects on the quality of the work.<br />Speer lived to be an old man who  enjoyed his freedom into the 1980's. He may never have built Hitler's  \\"Germania\\", with monstrosities like a 400,000 seat stadium in the city  where he went on trial. But in the end he won, he survived, and to this day  must remain an enigma, the consummate escape artist who left Nuremberg  alive, and later in 1966 walked out of prison a free man, a man who  theoretically paid backed Humanity for a war many felt he lengthened for a  year, and a man who convinced his accusers the Holocaust was not something  he could in any way be held accountable for.he did commit. I can find  none, I cannot find one, and I remain as baffled by his escape, if better  informed, than prior to reading this book. The work is extremely well done,  and my failure to understand what led to his lack of punishment in no way  reflects on the quality of the work.<br />Speer lived to be an old man who  enjoyed his freedom into the 1980's. He may never have built Hitler's  \\"Germania\\", with monstrosities like a 400,000 seat stadium in the city  where he went on trial. But in the end he won, he survived, and to this day  must remain an enigma, the consummate escape artist who left Nuremberg  alive, and later in 1966 walked out of prison a free man, a man who  theoretically paid backed Humanity for a war many felt he lengthened for a  year, and a man who convinced his accusers the Holocaust was not something  he could in any way be held accountable for.	2000-07-24
2360981:US	53047425	R2UYBA0BWQYNG9	0679756868	36494684	The Rape of Europa: The Fate of Europe's Treasures in the Third Reich and the Second World War	Books	5	117	122	N	N	The Grinch who stole.	World War II was unique in so far as war can have different degrees of intensity, scope, or perhaps evil. The Germany of the Nazis was one with an insatiable appetite, whether for killing, inventing crimes so heinous new  words were needed, or the absolute fervor with which they wanted  everything. They literally wanted everything, whether changed to suit them,  or in the case this book discusses, they wanted art, all of it. Their  actions went well beyond the spoils of War that a victor generally has  taken as his own, either from greed or an imagined sense of recompense for  the battles fought. They wanted to change the demographics of the planet,  had they succeeded, they would have managed the greatest art theft in  History.<br />It may sound like a bizarre comparison, but the \\"Grinch\\" of Dr.  Seuss fame came to mind while reading. The fictional character like his  Nazi counterparts attempted to wipe out a culture by taking everything. The  list of names of Artists includes every Master that ever painted, sculpted,  drew, or any artisan who created a work of beauty. Nothing was overlooked;  imagine having to return over 5,000 bells stolen from all over Europe. Yes,  bells, as I said they took everything.<br />The book has some great  photographs. There is a photo of one of the Goering residences and the Art  he had stolen. It may sound bizarre but it looks like a bad yard sale. Any  taste he had was in his mouth. It's quite a feat to amass priceless  objects, and then display them in such a way and in such numbers, that the  result is a garage sale. The picture also illustrates what the whole theft  was about, the desire to have stuff, all the stuff you could steal. Happily  they lost, or the world's great art would have become the personal property  of the artistically challenged moral degenerates of the Third Reich.<br />Much  more intriguing was Ms. Nicholas's treatment of how so much art was  preserved, hidden, and protected. A photograph of DaVinci's  \\"Last Supper\\",  or better said the protective covering, is simply amazing. So too are the  photos of American Soldiers casually posing with a Goya, or standing with  The Ghent Altarpiece.  Aerial photographs of destroyed cities where  virtually all that was saved was the Art.<br />There are also troubling events  after the War that remain to the present. So much art was stolen yet again  by the Victors, some has reappeared, and much has not. Even the custody  that was taken of many works after the War by this Country, and displayed  at our National Galleries is an event I would hope we would never again  repeat. The value of these objects, the tons of precious metals, and other  items are beyond calculation. Hopefully with the changes in Europe and the  Former Soviet Union more art will find it's way back to where it originally  resided.<br />In the end all the effort the Nazis expended on their desire to  feed there egos probably saved many, many pieces of art. I am in no way  suggesting what they did was correct. If they thought they were saving art  for future generations of people and not their superior race of automatons,  they would have destroyed it. And the Corporal's fondness for Paris didn't  hurt either.<br />A very well written and interesting book for the art lover,  or for fans of well crafted History.Supper\\",  or better said the protective covering, is simply amazing. So too are the  photos of American Soldiers casually posing with a Goya, or standing with  The Ghent Altarpiece.  Aerial photographs of destroyed cities where  virtually all that was saved was the Art.<br />There are also troubling events  after the War that remain to the present. So much art was stolen yet again  by the Victors, some has reappeared, and much has not. Even the custody  that was taken of many works after the War by this Country, and displayed  at our National Galleries is an event I would hope we would never again  repeat. The value of these objects, the tons of precious metals, and other  items are beyond calculation. Hopefully with the changes in Europe and the  Former Soviet Union more art will find it's way back to where it originally  resided.<br />In the end all the effort the Nazis expended on their desire to  feed there egos probably saved many, many pieces of art. I am in no way  suggesting what they did was correct. If they thought they were saving art  for future generations of people and not their superior race of automatons,  they would have destroyed it. And the Corporal's fondness for Paris didn't  hurt either.<br />A very well written and interesting book for the art lover,  or for fans of well crafted History.	2000-07-20
2361286:US	53047425	R4QDSFONZ3AP4	0679438084	263184134	Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Back making headlines again	Ron Chernow is as good a biographer as any writing today, and he continues to produce scholarly studies at a consistent level of excellence. He has now added his study of John D. Rockefeller Sr. in the form of \\"Titan\\" to  his previously exceptional works, \\"The House Of Morgan\\", and `The  Warburgs\\". The reference I make to headlines has to do with Standard Oil  and anti-trust issues, which I will come back to a bit later.<br />The title  of the book is appropriate as Mr. Rockefeller continually redefined what it  meant to be wealthy, to be powerful, a ruthless competitor, and at times a  businessman that would use violence if he felt it appropriate. He operated  during a time when the constraints upon business were few, and the taxation  of business was non-existent compared to today. This is not to detract from  what he accomplished. Were he to have started his career recently his  fortune may not have been quite so grand, but this was clearly an  exceptional man, driven by his insatiable desire for the consolidation of  power combined with his belief that what he did was what his God meant for  him to do. He was the Paternalist, chosen to accumulate his great wealth,  and then distribute it as he saw fit. This sense of divine right was not  something I had read before and it added a quality that was almost  surreal.<br />Standard Oil is a name that has been in the headlines many times  recently as people look to draw comparisons to the anti-trust issues that  Microsoft is facing. The AT&amp;T breakup is also mentioned, and for the  reporter who digs a bit deeper, the break up of the aluminum monopoly.  Every time the comparison is made to Standard Oil I get nauseated, and I  believe for good reason.<br />Mr. Rockefeller controlled not only commodities,  but controlled the process from the time the raw material came from the  ground, was refined, nearly anytime it was moved, pipelines, railroads, and  their owners by requiring he be paid through preferential treatment at the  expense of the few competitors that were constantly being erased. And his  competitors were erased with private security forces, and lethal force if  necessary.<br />None of us can operate without oil, or its byproducts. This  natural resource is unique and without it, to keep the issue local, this  Country would simply stop. We went to war to ensure foreign supplies were  not monopolized, the commodity is that important.<br />If there is a meeting  that 10 people travel to, they will all use a fossil fuel to get there.  Your car, their car, the airplane, none are affected by what name brand of  fuel they consume. A commodity is generic. Now the 10 arrive in a  conference room and open 10 laptop computers. They have 10 different  operating systems none of which work with the other. Standard Oil equals  Microsoft?, would you go on National Television and utter something so  utterly moronic?<br />Disraeli said, \\"Read no history, nothing but biography,  for that is life without theory.\\" He did not say that autobiography should  be read, nor what we are now often offered, the memoir, as the latter two  by definition must be suspect as to objectivity. The authorized biography  is a variant that again must be suspect to the extent it must past muster  with the subject or the subject's heirs.<br />Mr. Chernow demonstrates, like  the few biographers writing at his level, how timeless the study of the  individuals who \\"make\\" so much of our History is. It is unfortunate that so  little History is accurately memorialized, and even worse, how those who  are ignorant of the History they use, are so readily prepared to disperse  it. The study of History is time consuming but almost effortless when  written as well as \\"Titan\\". It is pathetic that so much of our History can  be destroyed by the ill informed, the lazy, in a single sound bite.<br />Mr.  Chernow is a great asset to all of us, I wish only that more would read  such work, be enriched by it, and demand more from those who disseminate  bad information, who sadly are even ignorant of how wrong they are.om those who disseminate  bad information, who sadly are even ignorant of how wrong they are.	2000-07-20
2366244:US	53047425	R3TTSG4CSLSAZF	0809064049	630887615	Who Killed Kirov?: The Kremlin's Greatest Mystery	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Who doesn't know?	Unless as one writer suggests, new documentation with the credibility to give the information credence is introduced, this book offers very little in any event. There were some photographs that I had not seen in other  books, and the floor plan and the alleged positioning of security was  interesting. For this book to suggest this killing has the same mystery  surrounding the Kennedy assassination is absurd.<br />There are many who  believe that Kennedy was not solely the victim of Oswald, and while one can  speculate who actually pulled the trigger in the case of the murder of  Kirov, it is the less important part of the incident, what Soviet History  might have been under Kirov is the story.<br />Kirov embodied many things that  Stalin did not and could not emulate; he was charismatic, &quot;The  People&quot; truly liked the man, and he was not the disfigured paranoid  maniac that was Stalin. When the fateful vote took place and Kirov had  clearly become a rival to Stalin's power, it was only a question of how  soon he would die, and how large the purge that followed his death would  be. It would indeed be massive, for how else was Stalin to show how  devastated and full of revenge he was, for the death of his  &quot;friend&quot; Kirov? Stalin had no friends.<br />Stalin wanted Kirov  dead, he ordered the killing, and whether the NKVD, or as is likely the  poor guy they picked up and pinned it on actually did the killing, the  killer is secondary. The story here is that Stalin could carry out the hit  on Kirov, knowing he would be suspect number one, and further being 100%  confident that no individual or group would accuse him, that is part of the  interesting History here. The bloodbath that followed was just Stalin  getting rid of more of his &quot;enemies&quot; real or mostly  imagined.<br />If there were a book written for the purpose of identifying  every killer Stalin employed, the number of books would run into the tens  of millions. The fact that he could kill on such an unprecedented scale,  that he could remain in control, that he managed to always have enough  believers/supporters/future victims to back him is what fascinates. Kirov  may have been the marquee kill of Stalin's reign, but he was just that, one  more body<br />I would like to read a well written historically based work of  fiction that posits what would have happened had Kirov not been killed,  what if Stalin was blamed, what if Kirov took control of the former USSR.  That is where the interest lies.<br />The title of this book is bordering on  misleading. Nothing inside the book is as intriguing as the question asked  on the cover wishes you to believe.kill on such an unprecedented scale,  that he could remain in control, that he managed to always have enough  believers/supporters/future victims to back him is what fascinates. Kirov  may have been the marquee kill of Stalin's reign, but he was just that, one  more body<br />I would like to read a well written historically based work of  fiction that posits what would have happened had Kirov not been killed,  what if Stalin was blamed, what if Kirov took control of the former USSR.  That is where the interest lies.<br />The title of this book is bordering on  misleading. Nothing inside the book is as intriguing as the question asked  on the cover wishes you to believe.	2000-07-17
2366550:US	53047425	R2Q88WO0BRL1DK	014016622X	546056497	Nuremberg : Infamy on Trial	Books	5	26	35	N	N	If there is such an event	\\"Trial Of The Century\\", who decides which courtroom event merits this type of hyperbole? In the 20th Century there was the kidnapping and subsequent death of a child, and at the close of the same time period, a second case  rose to occupy this level of infamy. This latter crime was a multiple  murder. These crimes were horrible, both for their victims and all who  cared for them. I respectfully suggest neither case by any measure reached  the level of importance of the War Crime Trials of Nuremberg. Because the  child's father was the first to fly the Atlantic, or that a professional  athlete of one color is the defendant accused of killing 2 victims of  another, makes for lurid tabloid garbage. It does not make them important.  The color of victims and their assailants should not be news, or the  celebrity status of a father, but that is to speak of utopia.<br />Nuremberg  was the place, its defendants so devoid of humanity, and their crimes so  heinous that there were no charges to define what they had done. This was  the trial where \\"Man\\" was the defendant, the prosecution, the judge, jury,  instrument of sentencing, and in many cases executioner. Humanity was put  on trial. This event transcended the law, the values, the morality, the  customs, and the mores of any one Country. It was a test, it was  unprecedented, and the Author Mr. Joseph E. Persico places this in front of  the reader, and it is nearly unbearable to conceive of what took  place.<br />Nuremberg was where the bacilli of genocide were confined, the  location the engineers of Crimes Against Humanity, the Nazis, Herman  Goering, and fellow demented followers of the Corporal were caged and then  mostly hung. This event, this judgment handed down by the Allies was a  pivotal moment in Human History. This event that created the legal basis  for an International Tribunal to call before the bar those alleged to have  committed war crimes, to charge them, to hold them responsible and finally  to punish, this was history. This trial where the guilty were actually  found to be so and were sentenced and then had their sentences carried out  with dispatch, this was the trial of any time period one can name. There is  no other, there is not another that can pretend to come close. The Author  Mr. Joseph E. Persico demonstrates this and many other precedents that were  incredibly complex and that brought about the trial and lead to its  outcome. So the next time \\"the bubble headed bleach blonde comes on at 5\\"  (with a nod to Don Henley) and reads \\"Trial Of The Century\\" off the  teleprompter, hit the off switch, why listen to the ignorant?<br />The  Nuremberg trials were a singular event. Virtually every aspect of the  proceedings were inaugural. Whether one speaks of the \\"charges\\" that the  defendants were to be tried for, whether there was even a legal basis for  trying them, and even the real time translation equipment that was used,  all were firsts. Judges and attorneys from Russia, The United States, and  England, the method for finding attorneys who would defend these creatures,  from start to finish the story is astonishing.<br />What were the defendants  like, what were their I.Q. scores, who was shattered when placed on the  stand, and which defendants shattered the attorneys? Which infamous Nazi  charmed his way off the scaffold to live a long private life? You will also  read of how the United States Navy came to be part of the defense of the  German Commanders of the submarine fleet. It sounds incredible but it's  true. How did Goering get the means to take the coward's way out, read the  book, you'll be sickened.<br />No novel can ever approach the drama of these  trials, hopefully no crime will ever usurp these as the most heinous, and  perhaps we one day will again have the courage to do what is right, to  reassure those that survived that they did not do so in vain, to once again  demonstrate there is a line that cannot be crossed, that cannot be  compromised, that will never be tolerated. The crimes have been repeated,  why haven't the trials?<br />Perhaps the United Nations can be dissolved and  in its place a courtroom; a room where Nationality is unknown, a locale  where humanity is the only distinguishing characteristic, or perhaps better  said the common denominator of those that preside, a place where  international inertia is replaced with action.<br />The 20th Century was the  100-year span of time when butchers killed in numbers never before  recorded. Nuremberg said its Defendants were wrong, Nuremberg punished, and  Nuremberg reassured a shattered World.<br />Again the crimes have been  repeated, some of the perpetrators still live, why are there no trials?sed, that will never be tolerated. The crimes have been repeated,  why haven't the trials?<br />Perhaps the United Nations can be dissolved and  in its place a courtroom; a room where Nationality is unknown, a locale  where humanity is the only distinguishing characteristic, or perhaps better  said the common denominator of those that preside, a place where  international inertia is replaced with action.<br />The 20th Century was the  100-year span of time when butchers killed in numbers never before  recorded. Nuremberg said its Defendants were wrong, Nuremberg punished, and  Nuremberg reassured a shattered World.<br />Again the crimes have been  repeated, some of the perpetrators still live, why are there no trials?	2000-07-17
2366566:US	53047425	R3GB63WX7KTDQ1	031222687X	404528212	Royal Survivor: The Life of Charles II	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Well defined, and very well written...	The Author, Mr. Stephen Coote, handles this biography in a manner that I wish were more prevalent. Rather than writing a three-inch thick, thousand-page work, he states his premise about his subject, and then  confines himself to what is appropriate within the context he has outlined.  This is not a work that lists every piece of paper the subject ever held,  and who was there handing him a pen. Mr. Coote delivers a disciplined,  concise narrative, not a leaden overwrought tome that takes two people to  carry. He makes his work accessible, readable, and still produces the work  of a scholar. Happily more biographers seem to be adopting a more appealing  way to enjoy History, the reading is interesting, and the only way it could  be otherwise is to write three words where one will suffice.<br />Charles II  is a fascinating character that lived through a time of other major  historical events that make this book all the more interesting. I have read  many references to the infamous Great London Fire of 1666, but this is the  first time the extent of the devastation made the impact on this reader  that an event of its magnitude should. The better known events are all  here, the plague of 1665, members of the Royalty changing, or appearing to  change Religions as often as they changed their clothes, the children whose  Patrimony was questionable many times, the intrigues at the Court, and the  endless maze of deals and deceptions between England, Scotland, France,  Spain, and the Low Countries. Family ties were as strong as they were  useful, and loyalty to the king, or of his subjects changed with the wind,  the latest eclipse, or comet.<br />What is concentrated upon here is the King  that Charles II became, and the events in his life that brought him there.  The trauma, the defeats, the betrayal, and a young Son forced to cope with  the murder of his Father. This was a King who would travel on foot to  escape his enemies, who would walk among them if required; this was a man  of rare courage. He was also a King caught in the maelstrom that was  England continually ripping herself asunder with religion. He was forced to  deal with Papists, Anglicans, and a host of other groups that made the  already complex political situation in England all the worse. And when not  attempting this balancing act, he faced Royalists, Parliamentarians, and a  host of individuals with both an axe to grind, and an axe they would  happily had cleaved the King's skull with if given half a chance.<br />Oliver  Cromwell, Archibald Campbell Earl Of Argyll, Louis XIV of France and the  bloodiest Naval Battle with the Dutch in May of 1666, are all just pieces  of this wonderful work. I made a comment in another review that if we had  more History written this well the demand for fiction would be decreased. I  felt that way then, I feel it even more strongly now.as a man  of rare courage. He was also a King caught in the maelstrom that was  England continually ripping herself asunder with religion. He was forced to  deal with Papists, Anglicans, and a host of other groups that made the  already complex political situation in England all the worse. And when not  attempting this balancing act, he faced Royalists, Parliamentarians, and a  host of individuals with both an axe to grind, and an axe they would  happily had cleaved the King's skull with if given half a chance.<br />Oliver  Cromwell, Archibald Campbell Earl Of Argyll, Louis XIV of France and the  bloodiest Naval Battle with the Dutch in May of 1666, are all just pieces  of this wonderful work. I made a comment in another review that if we had  more History written this well the demand for fiction would be decreased. I  felt that way then, I feel it even more strongly now.	2000-07-17
2371323:US	53047425	R2C9UVXMM2AAP5	0201328283	943226060	The Cambridge Quintet: A Work Of Scientific Speculation (Helix Books)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Who would you invite to dinner, and why?	Mr. Casti has crafted a wonderful book for readers, and not just those whose interest lay in Scientific \\"what if\\" scenarios. His topic is Artificial Intelligence and the probability it will become reality. The  specific question is \\"Can we build a machine that could duplicate human  cognitive processes?\\" The host for the evening is C.P. Snow, and his guests  for dinner and debate are physicist Erwin Schrodinger, wave mechanics  inventor, Ludwig Wittgenstein, 20th Century philosopher of language,  geneticist J.B.S. Haldane, and finally Alan Turing, Mathematician and  Father of modern computing.<br />Keep reading! You do not need to be a student  of any of these fields or know who these men are, prior to embarking on  this hypothetical snowy evening in Cambridge. And that is the genius of  this book, or perhaps one element of it. For not only does Mr. Costi pick a  topic that is still as relevant a debate today as it \\"was\\" in 1949, he  makes the debates readable, and he introduces people who are as important,  or even more critical than the names we attach to computers today.<br />The  true genius is of course Mr. Costi, for not only does he posit the  question, he selects great minds, and then uses his own to create a  dialogue that demonstrates his vast knowledge of these men and their  fields. Finally he places his creation in front of readers, not a select  group, rather for anyone who is inquisitive. Winston Churchill asked a  guest at his home one night to explain the \\"Theory Of Relativity\\" in one  minute using words with only one syllable. His guest Frederick Lindemann  proceeded to do just that. Mr. Costi uses words that violate the singular  syllable rule, and if anyone could speed read the book in 60 seconds their  effort would be pointless.<br />History can be boring or Martin Gilbert,  Daniel J. Boorstin, Amanda Foreman, or Ron Chernow to name just a few can  write it. The same can be said of science or the Law. The subjects can be  cloaked in mystery not because they are complex, rather the skill to  communicate what they are, is difficult for many, impossible for most, and  fortunately for readers there are a few greater minds/communicators who can  open these portals of knowledge.<br />The Hubble Telescope documents phenomena  that are visually awe-inspiring. But until a Dr. Hawkings brings some  meaning to them, they are just pretty pictures, images that show space in  unimaginable dimensions, and objects that defy all commonly held  thought.<br />Great book, great read, highly recommended!because they are complex, rather the skill to  communicate what they are, is difficult for many, impossible for most, and  fortunately for readers there are a few greater minds/communicators who can  open these portals of knowledge.<br />The Hubble Telescope documents phenomena  that are visually awe-inspiring. But until a Dr. Hawkings brings some  meaning to them, they are just pretty pictures, images that show space in  unimaginable dimensions, and objects that defy all commonly held  thought.<br />Great book, great read, highly recommended!	2000-07-14
2372510:US	53047425	R2G1VDPSVD17UF	0471132292	727926057	In Search of Churchill: A Historian's Journey	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Take a 30 year literary ride	Biographers spend years, and in this case decades, to bring their work, their subject to us. The manner their books came about is generally shared in their acknowledgement, or a section thanking those people and  institutions that were instrumental in helping create the work. Sir Martin  Gilbert is one of the great Historians of our time, and his main work as a  historian is certainly a man that is truly unique, a historic original, a  man who's peers can be counted on one hand.<br />\\"In Search Of Churchill\\"  allows the reader to get about as close as he can to the writing of a  biography without actually being one of Sir Martin's assistants. His work  documenting Churchill is about to cross into its fifth decade. Sir Martin  began as an assistant to Sir Winston Spencer Churchill's Son Randolph in  1962. In 1968 he took the task on alone, and has carried it forth, and  continues to do so to this day.<br />Alone of course is the wrong word, while  he certainly has written thousands of pages of what many consider the  greatest biographical work ever done, hundreds of others living, and others  through the papers they left behind, have helped Mr. Gilbert on this  lifetime task. Churchill has not been the only subject of this great  biographer which is yet another testimony to this historian.<br />Churchill is  a constant, he is quoted almost daily, his speeches are legendary, as are  his quips, which were at times poked in fun, and at others ended the  careers of their target. Mr. Gilbert works toward answering questions that  may not have a definitive answer, but if there is an individual to put  forth valid opinion, none are more qualified than he. Why is Churchill a  figure of history that has not been relegated to the past's vague memory,  why does he routinely appear on magazine covers in this Country and others  on a yearly basis? What was it about this man that has spawned an  International Churchill Society who counts thousands on Continents around  the world as paying members? Why are their new books on this man written on  a regular basis, and how many authors have their books in print a century  after they were written. Great Author's works line the shelves, but writing  was an avocation for this man in addition to his other talents.<br />Mr.  Gilbert brings you along to \\"meet\\" people who worked with Mr. Churchill. As  his life spanned from the 1870's to the 1960's those who knew him are  legion. He was Prime Minister twice, held nearly every major Government  position, won the Nobel prize, painted, and held the fort for the Western  Democracies until help finally came. If such a man had not lived so large  and so long he would almost be more believable as legend and or myth rather  than the Statesman, warrior, orator, and one of England's greatest citizens  that he continues to be, in some cases in memory only. He did have a head  start, as his Mother was American, and perhaps that makes us in the USA  feel we can claim him as partly ours.<br />The embassy in Washington D.C. has  a statue of Churchill, in mid-stride he has one foot on American soil and  one on the territory of the English Embassy. In life his influence, his  determination, and sense of destiny spanned the Globe. Even in death he  spans the 2 Countries he loved the most.<br />His like will never be seen  again.s paying members? Why are their new books on this man written on  a regular basis, and how many authors have their books in print a century  after they were written. Great Author's works line the shelves, but writing  was an avocation for this man in addition to his other talents.<br />Mr.  Gilbert brings you along to \\"meet\\" people who worked with Mr. Churchill. As  his life spanned from the 1870's to the 1960's those who knew him are  legion. He was Prime Minister twice, held nearly every major Government  position, won the Nobel prize, painted, and held the fort for the Western  Democracies until help finally came. If such a man had not lived so large  and so long he would almost be more believable as legend and or myth rather  than the Statesman, warrior, orator, and one of England's greatest citizens  that he continues to be, in some cases in memory only. He did have a head  start, as his Mother was American, and perhaps that makes us in the USA  feel we can claim him as partly ours.<br />The embassy in Washington D.C. has  a statue of Churchill, in mid-stride he has one foot on American soil and  one on the territory of the English Embassy. In life his influence, his  determination, and sense of destiny spanned the Globe. Even in death he  spans the 2 Countries he loved the most.<br />His like will never be seen  again.	2000-07-13
2373100:US	53047425	R2DVKABDHX07ZW	0393035220	761365637	001: The Churchill War Papers: At the Admirality (Vol. 1)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	For the researcher or the enthusiast	Martin Gilbert, now Knighted as Sir Martin Gilbert, is one of the great historians of our time, and he has written the definitive biography of Sir Winston Spencer Churchill. He has been at work for 38 years, and the task  is not yet complete. The biography itself was completed in 1988, the  production of these companion volumes continues.<br />The biographic work  itself is 8 volumes in length, and presently there are 15 additional  companion volumes that contain every note and correspondence imaginable.  These books get right down to the one-sentence telegrams of congratulation.  To give you a sense of their scope and detail, this volume that covers 9  months runs to 1,370 pages with notes.<br />The books are fascinating for what  they contain, and for the completeness they represent. All the information  is here, these were not meant to be widely read, but to be documentary, so  there is nothing missing. I also enjoy them as they give the reader a  glimpse in to the world of the Biographer, a man who in this instance has  spent nearly 40 years of his life on his subject.<br />These put the work of  the Biographer in perspective. It may be more appropriate to say a  Biographer of Mr. Gilbert's stature. It is often remarked that no  biographical study has ever been so complete as his work of Churchill, and  if you happen to have one of these books you will certainly see why. I  enjoy reading them a bit at a time, as they bring you into Mr. Churchill's  day, note-by-note, letter by letter, and they document an incomparable  life.	2000-07-13
2373924:US	53047425	R35JNR3819BGQ1	0375409157	897447984	Blood Rain: An Aurelio Zen Mystery (Aurelio Zen Mysteries)	Books	5	58	61	N	N	Three ways to find a great new Author	Recently I have found a series of new writers that were unknown to me. I understand the number of books offered on a given day is enormous, but those worth the time it takes to read them are comparatively few.<br />Some  book jackets compare one Author to another, as was the case here. I had  never heard of Mr. Dibdin or this series of Aurelio Zen mysteries, and if  you haven't either, something special by a gifted Author awaits your  attention.<br />If you enjoyed the late Mario Puzzo's Sicily, this particular  installment, &quot;Blood Rain&quot;, is for you. Very little is as it  appears the first, second, or third time you read it during this story. Mr.  Dibdin has the ability to sustain the uncertainty of the tale's direction  and outcome until you literally are at the final page. What you feel you  have learned even at that point is still open to question. None of this is  done so as to be clich&eacute;, no surprise lurks around a corner. One of the  skills Mr. Dibdin is so good at is knocking you off your chair when there  is absolutely no reason to expect it. The brilliant part is, even though he  surprises you, he has laid the basis for his moment, and still you really  are stunned. I know it sounds trite, but you will not see the event coming.  You may find yourself flipping back a few pages thinking you missed a clue,  but don't bother looking; you missed nothing, no pages stuck together. The  Author manipulates his readers with subtlety and perhaps a bit of  guile.<br />One other element I enjoyed was the length. The book can be  comfortably read in a sitting for it is only as long as it needs to be. Mr.  Dibdin does not feel the need to produce 600 pages when 272 will do. He  needed 272, no more or less, and you are rewarded for it.<br />The other 2  ways to find these new writers, you can follow the links of what others  have bought on Amazon, you will turn up new Authors faster than you may  think. The other alternative is to get down on the floor of a bookstore,  your face nearly on the carpet. There, if you are lucky you will find these  wonderful books. In more ways than one they are holding up many  &quot;marquee authors&quot; that are on the top shelves, as foundations are  the strength of any sound structure. On the top shelf does not mean top  shelf quality. I don't mean to be pretentious; it is just that I am tired  of plowing through, clicking through, around and around the latest book  with an initial run of millions of copies, to find someone or something  new.<br />Read Mr. Dibdin you will not be disappointed.tore,  your face nearly on the carpet. There, if you are lucky you will find these  wonderful books. In more ways than one they are holding up many  &quot;marquee authors&quot; that are on the top shelves, as foundations are  the strength of any sound structure. On the top shelf does not mean top  shelf quality. I don't mean to be pretentious; it is just that I am tired  of plowing through, clicking through, around and around the latest book  with an initial run of millions of copies, to find someone or something  new.<br />Read Mr. Dibdin you will not be disappointed.	2000-07-12
2374612:US	53047425	REY9CAPA35R5X	067944288X	786113048	Denmark Vesey: The Buried History of America's Largest Slave Rebellion and the Man Who Led It	Books	4	12	13	N	N	One very audacious attempt, and the man who led it	The more History I read of this Country the more I seem to read about South Carolina. I am not a concentrated reader of The Civil War, and while South Carolina played key roles in that conflict, it also was the locale of  a number of additional notable events in this Country's History. If I were  to pick one State the approximate vintage of South Carolina, I cannot make  a better argument for a single State that was as independently oriented,  and that defended its independence from influence outside its borders, and  defended it with even greater passion from any Federal influence. To the  very present, South Carolina has been expressing the same theme through the  issue of what Flag they will fly over their Capital, and who the decision  will be made by. A decision was reached, the flag may no longer fly over  the Capital, but it shall fly not far from it.<br />Denmark Vesey's birthplace  is unknown contrary to the conflicting commercial reviews. From the book,  &quot;It is not confirmable whether Vesey was born in Africa or The West  Indies&quot;. If there is a consistent thread through the book, it is how  much is not known about this man who attempted what would have been a  massive Rebellion, Slave in makeup or otherwise composed. This is not to  say the book is not well done, quite the contrary. I believe that the  documentation achieved by Mr. David Robinson is nothing short of remarkable  when the effort to destroy all remnants of the rebellion is considered. The  book loses no credibility because we don't know from what tree he was  executed, nor where his body was finally buried. These issues are more  legend than they will ever be fact, but these issues do not change the  heart of the event, and the facts of what took place. Even Mr. Vesey's  appearance is unknown except for the most impressionistic of drawings; the  man visually is an enigma.<br />The story as related is brief, 153 pages. But  as evidenced by photographs and 40 pages of notes, the Historical detective  work was clearly done. The Author presents what he knows, makes very little  speculation, and to the extent he does, he places his feelings in a  distinct chapter, &quot;A Personal Conclusion&quot;.<br />Staying away from  the story so as not to spoil it, there was however an aspect of the South  in 1822 that I had never read about in such detail. There were not 2  groups, there were many. Slaves, freed slaves like Mr. Vesey, and very  defined and distinct groups among the black and white Communities. The  distinctions amongst the people that Vesey wished to lead were the same  that lead to his rebellions defeat.<br />It is necessarily a brief story  unless more information comes to light. With the material at hand and the  documentation the Author found, I believe he did a very credible job of  relating a relatively unknown event in our History.<br />The question of what  would have happened had Vesey succeeded, and the implications on this  Country are not to be found in the book, nor do I believe it would be  appropriate for such counter-factual debate to be placed in a Historical  work. The &quot;what if&quot; scenarios are varied and certainly would have  been momentous. However History did not take place as Mr. Vesey planned,  and the historical record was systematically destroyed to the extent  possible.<br />What is important is that Denmark Vesey and other leaders like  him take their place in our Historical record. Whether positive, negative,  or aborted, events like these must be recounted or our History is  incomplete.rical detective  work was clearly done. The Author presents what he knows, makes very little  speculation, and to the extent he does, he places his feelings in a  distinct chapter, &quot;A Personal Conclusion&quot;.<br />Staying away from  the story so as not to spoil it, there was however an aspect of the South  in 1822 that I had never read about in such detail. There were not 2  groups, there were many. Slaves, freed slaves like Mr. Vesey, and very  defined and distinct groups among the black and white Communities. The  distinctions amongst the people that Vesey wished to lead were the same  that lead to his rebellions defeat.<br />It is necessarily a brief story  unless more information comes to light. With the material at hand and the  documentation the Author found, I believe he did a very credible job of  relating a relatively unknown event in our History.<br />The question of what  would have happened had Vesey succeeded, and the implications on this  Country are not to be found in the book, nor do I believe it would be  appropriate for such counter-factual debate to be placed in a Historical  work. The &quot;what if&quot; scenarios are varied and certainly would have  been momentous. However History did not take place as Mr. Vesey planned,  and the historical record was systematically destroyed to the extent  possible.<br />What is important is that Denmark Vesey and other leaders like  him take their place in our Historical record. Whether positive, negative,  or aborted, events like these must be recounted or our History is  incomplete.	2000-07-12
2375072:US	53047425	R1GK21VL5RK3H7	0880641746	606521557	Treasure Hunt: A New York Times Reporter Tracks the Quedlinburg Hoard	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Truth is not only stranger, here it's better than fiction.	Great art treasures, real, imagined, or based on myth and legends have been the topic for countless novels. The genre is still healthy today with some great Authors continuing the tradition. Iain Pears and his Jonathan  Argyll series is a great example. This book adds an interesting change,  there is no fiction, as outrageous as the story is, it actually  happened.<br />&quot;The Quedlinburg Hoard&quot; is the subject of the book,  and several specific pieces that were stolen by an American Soldier at the  end of WWII, provide the tale. The circumstances that allowed for the theft  were unique, and had they been any different the objects in question and  their theft would have been unthinkable.<br />These were not objects like a  Rembrandt, Picasso, or perhaps a Caravaggio, these objects included the 9th  Century Samuhel Gospel and the 1513 Evangelistar. These had been given to  the Cathedral in Quedlinburg by the earliest German Kings Heinreich I and  his Son Otto.<br />They were stored in a cave by none other than Heinrich  Himmler who had hidden them; a US soldier who was guarding the cave then  borrowed them for 40 years, and their places of residence during this time  is incredible.<br />However that is a very small part of the story. Once the  objects are found by the Author and a German Investigator, who has been  chasing them for decades, the conduct of those involved is beyond belief.  These items were instantly recognizable by any Art Dealer for what they  were, and that they were stolen and priceless. In any other industry this  might have posed a problem, but with the Art/Book World shown in this work,  who got what, who they got it from, and where, is of no interest. The only  topic is price.<br />This is a tremendous work that garnered Mr. Honan a  Pulitzer Nomination. The book is a great read, and it will make many books  of fiction on the subject of stolen art seem tame when compared to this  true story.<br />Exceptional.	2000-07-12
2375569:US	53047425	R3SFM440ESBAIK	0805023968	352900823	Churchill: A Life	Books	5	97	105	N	N	&quot;Because I shall write it...&quot;	The title of this review was Sir. Winston Spencer Churchill responding when asked how he thought History would remember him. He had no concerns, because as he explained he would be his own biographer.<br />Mr. Churchill did  author many books most of which are still readily available in print today,  and as far as his ability to use a pen, The Nobel Prize he received for his  writings answers that question.<br />As mentioned elsewhere Martin Gilbert  (now Sir Martin Gilbert) finished the 8th volume of the official Churchill  Biography in 1988. It is also true that he dedicated decades of his life to  the work. What is not as well known is that the work is not yet complete.  There are 8 volumes and there are also 15 additional volumes of  correspondence, personal letters, etc., that are also equally important to  this body of work. Finally, there are more volumes yet to come, so this  work not only has stretched decades, its creation has spanned 2 Centuries  like the great man himself. It is also important to note that Sir Winston's  Son Randolph Churchill published the first volume. Sir Gilbert joined  Randolph in 1962, Volume 1 was published in 1966, and Sir Gilbert  officially accepted the monumental task in 1968.<br />This one volume work is  brilliant. I have read the 8-volume version, and some of the companion  volumes, and to think it could be distilled into one book, however thick,  would have seemed an insurmountable task. Sir Gilbert is the authority on  the man who many argue was the man of the 20th Century, and one of the  great Statesman of History.<br />Sir Winston certainly was a brilliant leader;  to stop there is to not know the man at all. He was an accomplished writer,  he was a painter, he was a mason (the type that build walls), a trowel not  a secret handshake was used, and he was an orator without peer, who today  is still quoted on a regular basis.<br />If you read one book, then please  make it this one. My introduction to Churchill was through the as yet  uncompleted 3-volume work of Mr. William Manchester, which is also  excellent. Once introduced to this giant of history, one book will not do,  he was too large, larger than life, as large as the events he guided, and  the Western Democracy that he saved until others came to his aid. How  different the world would have been had his party not been voted from  office in the midst of the final peace negotiations. The only consistent  player was Stalin, and he won hands down.<br />A man that must be a part of  any library, as our present is due in part to this individual. And remember  he was 50% American. But then perhaps we can take a bit of pride and say,  no surprise at all!gh the as yet  uncompleted 3-volume work of Mr. William Manchester, which is also  excellent. Once introduced to this giant of history, one book will not do,  he was too large, larger than life, as large as the events he guided, and  the Western Democracy that he saved until others came to his aid. How  different the world would have been had his party not been voted from  office in the midst of the final peace negotiations. The only consistent  player was Stalin, and he won hands down.<br />A man that must be a part of  any library, as our present is due in part to this individual. And remember  he was 50% American. But then perhaps we can take a bit of pride and say,  no surprise at all!	2000-07-11
2378894:US	53047425	R1UU2Y5H0RTC7P	0060171138	580739808	Andrew Wyeth: A Secret Life	Books	5	63	67	N	N	A work worthy of its subject, however...	Mr. Richard Meryman has been writing about Mr. Andrew Wyeth for decades.  With the possible exception of Family he is as well qualified as anyone to  bring this deeply personal biography to readers and art lovers alike. His  subject is a man who many would argue to be one of, if not the finest  artist this Country is home to. When placed among his Father, his Sisters,  and his Son, there is no other Family who has contributed to the art world  for such a long period of time, in so prominent a manner, and with so high  a level of excellence. The 21st Century marks the beginning of the third  that the Wyeth name has maintained its place in the world of art and the  hearts and imaginations of collectors. As a Family their History is already  the material of both myth and legend.<br />My cautionary note in the title is  important in direct relation to what you know about the man, who he paints,  why, and what one of the most prevalent themes that mark his work are. I  came to this book as a great admirer of his work, and I finished it with my  love for his work intact, I do not have any of the same ideas I once did  prior to reading the book.<br />&quot;Christina's World&quot; which is one of  his singularly well known works, is also one of the least understood. The  house and its influence on the artist did spawn it's own art book, but the  events in that house could inspire several more. The same can be said of  Christina Olson. Once I read about the work and what Mr. Wyeth had to say,  I felt foolish in my ignorance, the fact that my misconceptions are shared  to this day bring no comfort.<br />The book does not require any knowledge of  Mr. Wyeth to be read and enjoyed. It certainly will add to the experience  if you know of the model that is recognized simply as &quot;Helga&quot;.  Mr. Meryman introduces you to Helga Testorf, and intriguing women in her  own right who continues to assist Mr. Wyeth to this day.<br />This book also  brings to the reader Mrs. Betsy Wyeth, who is much more than the Wife of  this man. She is a powerful partner, a shrewd businesswoman, and thanks to  her efforts the body of his work will be documented.<br />Many of his  well-known works are serene, even gentle; fishing nets drying in a sea  breeze, or Mr. Wyeth's dog sleeping with his head upon a pillow like any  person would do. These images are only a veneer to the story the stories  and life experiences that caused Mr. Wyeth to document them. A given image  is like one page from hundreds that really explain what the work is all  about.<br />You most likely will view this great man's work differently after  you finish the book, but different does not mean negatively or more  positively, rather just not the way you started.<br />Mr. Meryman has written  a brilliant biography that is erudite, readable, and a triumph in that the  subject of this work is incredibly complex and enigmatic.<br />Brilliant  subject, and a written work that pays tribute to the man, his Family, his  work, and some of the people he paints, without fawning over him.eth, who is much more than the Wife of  this man. She is a powerful partner, a shrewd businesswoman, and thanks to  her efforts the body of his work will be documented.<br />Many of his  well-known works are serene, even gentle; fishing nets drying in a sea  breeze, or Mr. Wyeth's dog sleeping with his head upon a pillow like any  person would do. These images are only a veneer to the story the stories  and life experiences that caused Mr. Wyeth to document them. A given image  is like one page from hundreds that really explain what the work is all  about.<br />You most likely will view this great man's work differently after  you finish the book, but different does not mean negatively or more  positively, rather just not the way you started.<br />Mr. Meryman has written  a brilliant biography that is erudite, readable, and a triumph in that the  subject of this work is incredibly complex and enigmatic.<br />Brilliant  subject, and a written work that pays tribute to the man, his Family, his  work, and some of the people he paints, without fawning over him.	2000-07-10
2380800:US	53047425	R2ATJEUQUAKFZV	0879757140	601885899	Death Dealer: The Memoirs of the SS Kommandant at Auschwitz	Books	4	73	75	N	N	May help to work toward the answer of some questions.	There have been several reviewers asking the who and why and how questions  relating to the question of those that commit Genocide. This book by no  means answers all of these questions. There are strong arguments that there  are no real answers to the atrocities that were committed, and by what  means the thousands that were needed to implement them did bring themselves  to do so. This book is interesting as it is a first person account of the  man who supervised Auschwitz, a man considered the individual to have  supervised well over 2,000,000 murders.<br />The only reason this lacks a 5th  star is that there is some question as to whether or not everything Rudolpf  Hoss wrote is 100% accurate. As this man was heading toward his death, it  is generally felt that what is written represents his true feelings and  thoughts about what he did.<br />This memoir/diary was written during his  incarceration prior to his eventual execution, over a period of time from  October of 1946 to April of 1947.<br />This is not a pleasant book; the  pictures that are a part of it were even more horrific for me, as they  accompanied the text of the man who created the situations that are  depicted. This work is also difficult as you read of a life that starts in  no remarkable way, yet leads to this individual becoming one of the key  players in the actual implementation of The Holocaust.<br />The horror in the  tale is the manner he carried out his tasks. He did not place any distance  between himself and the day-to-day activities. He was fully immersed in  them, and in many cases was there designer. He was central to the methods  developed for the methodically efficient killing, the gas to be used, and  disposal of victims.<br />When you get to the end you will understand more  about one mind that participated in an unthinkable act. Your questions may  not be all answered, but you will have gained a valuable insight into the  mind of one of the perpetrators of this 20th century slaughter.ghter.	2000-07-09
2381521:US	53047425	R3L6QMGGSUYAFI	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Four stars for Omerta, one for Mr. Puzo.	One year ago Mr. Puzo left us, but before he did he left his last work  &quot;Omerta&quot; for us. This final tale of his is quite good, and when  the end comes there is a feeling of closure to the epic he brought us with  &quot;The Godfather&quot;.<br />The book is a melancholy reading experience,  as you know it is the last work from Mr. Puzo. Do not make the same mistake  I did by reading it in one day, make it last. Too much has already been  given away about the plot, a trend I will not continue. Suffice to say this  is a different type of Mafia that Mr. Puzo brings us; it is quite  contemporary with events leading to the mid 1990's.<br />New York and Sicily  feature prominently in the book, and with a style that only Mr. Puzo can  bring to the topic. It is clear that he was telling of great change in  Organized Crime as we knew it, and it is a shame we will never know where  he might have taken this storyline. The book is not a cliffhanger; it  merely leaves you to ponder what would come next.<br />When reading, one of  the joys that returns is the memories of the first 2 Godfather Films. How  many films brought that much talent to one screen? There were legends as  well as legends in the making; Marlon Brando, James Caan, Al Pacino, Robert  Dinero, Robert Duvall, Dianne Keaton, and a host of faces we would see in  the theaters in the following years.<br />The jacket of the book says this  story will soon be a film. I am probably in the minority but I wish it were  not. Mr. Puzo was personally involved in the previous screenplays, and even  though this work was written with an eye toward being a movie, without Mr.  Puzo it cannot be what we have come to expect.<br />He created classic  literature, and then helped to bring at least 2 movies that already are in  the category of &quot;Classic&quot;. Our language has become peppered with  lines from the movies, even movies carry the spirit, and Tom Hanks recently  tutored a business owner with bits and phrases from the Godfather Movies in  the film &quot;You've Got Mail&quot;.<br />You cannot help but remember all  the original characters and the faces attached to them when this book is  read, I just don't see how the Corleones could be brought back to the  screen, especially as they are a very small part of this work.<br />Thank you  both for the body of works you left us, and for being a true original, rest  in peace Mr. Puzo.m the Godfather Movies in  the film &quot;You've Got Mail&quot;.<br />You cannot help but remember all  the original characters and the faces attached to them when this book is  read, I just don't see how the Corleones could be brought back to the  screen, especially as they are a very small part of this work.<br />Thank you  both for the body of works you left us, and for being a true original, rest  in peace Mr. Puzo.	2000-07-09
2383433:US	53047425	RNFSLBP3Z1V71	0679774025	504166475	All over but the Shoutin'	Books	5	75	82	N	N	The second time I wished there was a 6th star.	The first time was when I read Mr. Bragg's other book &quot;Somebody Told Me&quot;. In that collection of articles he had written I came across the following sentence,<br />&quot;This is a place where grandmothers hold babies  on their laps under the stars and whisper in their ears that the lights in  the sky are holes in the floor of heaven.&quot;<br />It is very difficult to  say something unique or clever about the way he writes. He would dismiss  any suggestion that he &quot;brings&quot; something to a story. Even the  professional reviewers have resorted to linking his name with some of the  greatest writers who have taken the time to share their craft with us;  Melville, Faulkner, and those who brought us &quot;Huck Finn&quot; and  &quot;Holden Caulfield&quot;, and Mr. Bragg is still a young writer who has  scores of books to come.<br />The only thing this man lacks is pretense, or if  you prefer, false pride. Someone said he had &quot;lent dignity&quot; to  the people in one of his stories, he felt that comment was wrong and said  &quot;All I did was write what was there&quot;, and another time, &quot;It  wasn't that I had gotten it right-God knows I mess up a lot-but that I had  gotten it true&quot;.<br />I believe he writes for the individuals and groups  he writes about. We are just the lucky witnesses, the beneficiaries of one  man's amazing talent.<br />Reading cannot get better than this.	2000-07-07
2387264:US	53047425	R2PDMXND860TZC	0684872951	659290028	Millionaire : The Philanderer, Gambler, and Duelist Who Invented Modern Finance	Books	5	31	34	N	N	They didn't have Alan Greenspan...	And even if they had, you still cannot protect people from themselves.<br />This is one great piece of work about a major player in World Financial History that I knew little about. This book can easily sit atop;  your reading list for Biography, History, and Finance. And some tangential  subjects of probabilities, sociology, and Human Nature that is nothing if  not consistent.<br />Ms. Gleeson brings a man to readers who was the original  Great White Shark of the financial world. In addition, John Law has got to  be one of the 18th Century's greatest personal stories. He was at once the  Bill Gates of his time for his wealth, and for his uncanny  &quot;luck&quot;, a variety of more notorious Wall Street names of recent  years. Were he alive today, his final days probably would have been spent  in a minimum security Federal Prison, after paying billions in  fines.<br />When reading the book I was reminded of Warren Buffet when  speaking about Airlines, that if you took the bottom line for the  industries entire existence it would equal zero. He then went on to state  that if there had been a Capitalist at Kittyhawk when Mr. Wright left the  ground, he hoped he would have shot the pilot.<br />The book also is very  appropriate for the Financial Markets we now are living with. More people  in the United States own securities in one form or another than at any  other time in our Nation's History. On-line investing, the extreme sport of  day trading, all are more expedient ways for the typical investor to become  Wall Street Road Kill. There has been discussion about raising the minimum  that a person must have in their account to $25,000 prior to be able to use  margin loans. At first blush this appears to be an outrageous intrusion on  a person's right to make his or her own decisions, for better or for worse.  In the end it is another attempt to do what is impossible, and what this  book so beautifully shows, that when it comes to money, quick money, it's  once burned twice burned, yet again.<br />John Law's story is spectacular, he  had a brilliant mind for numbers, and at least as important, for Human  Nature. He at times made his living as a gambler, and when at his height,  he could implicitly threaten a given Country with his ability to ruin their  economy. It was not a hollow threat; the King Of England for one did not  pick up the gauntlet once it had been thrown down.<br />Readers of all types  will like this book, students of Finances, History, Biography, basic gaming  theory, or just for pure reading pleasure, this work by the Lady who  brought us &quot;The Arcanum&quot; will disappoint no one.d twice burned, yet again.<br />John Law's story is spectacular, he  had a brilliant mind for numbers, and at least as important, for Human  Nature. He at times made his living as a gambler, and when at his height,  he could implicitly threaten a given Country with his ability to ruin their  economy. It was not a hollow threat; the King Of England for one did not  pick up the gauntlet once it had been thrown down.<br />Readers of all types  will like this book, students of Finances, History, Biography, basic gaming  theory, or just for pure reading pleasure, this work by the Lady who  brought us &quot;The Arcanum&quot; will disappoint no one.	2000-07-05
2389506:US	53047425	RJRKEHPZ3B0IU	0684833034	317055422	Miriam's Song: A Memoir	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Remarkable woman, her brother, and the Family he saved.	This is the first I have ever read of the Mathabane Family and their remarkable accomplishments despite the contrived, race-based evil that was Apartheid. For this book to be referred to as &quot;defused and vague&quot;  causes one to wonder what horrors constitute clarity, and how graphic must  descriptions be of tortured children (by the government), rape, murder, and  a uniquely gruesome form of killing referred to as being  &quot;necklaced&quot; to satisfy the voyeur. &quot;Unsparingly  graphic&quot; is succinct, accurate, and sorrowfully true.<br />Apartheid was  another example of how deranged one group can be to another, and happily  its ultimate fate was to become the abortion of hatred that it was, but  during its reign prior to its predestined death, the horror it caused was  epic. I felt I was fairly informed about the topic, this book proved that  feeling to be very wrong.<br />&quot;Bantu Education&quot; will forever be a  monument to the manner an enlightened minority was determined to keep the  majority &quot;in their place&quot;. Despite this system of abuse,  humiliation, and a goal to keep a people ignorant, the oppressed broke the  system's back. Whether it was a man spending 25 years in prison only to  emerge as a World Figure, or students like Miriam who just would not quit,  the delusion the minority of whites so badly wanted, was appropriately  destroyed.<br />The story that Miriam relates through her Brother opened up  new realities of Apartheid I was unaware of. The large demonstrations that  became a fixture on World news were composed partly of students  &quot;impressed&quot; like soldiers centuries ago into participating.  Refusing to participate could court death. The treatment of women  specifically and in general was again a horror, and one that was  implemented not by the government but by the anarchy that reigned in the  ghetto. Some was clearly based on tradition, tribal conflict, and  superstition, but none of it was justifiable.<br />Mark managed to gain his  way to the USA, and once here never forgot his family. With the help of  some well-known celebrities he brought his Family to the United States. His  best-selling book \\"Kaffir Boy\\" not only supported his Family until they  could be brought to the USA, but brought even more attention to the  malignancy that was Apartheid<br />I am glad they made it, I thank those who  helped them, and I believe the spirit that kept them alive makes them a  great addition to this Country, not only as citizens, but role models.r />Mark managed to gain his  way to the USA, and once here never forgot his family. With the help of  some well-known celebrities he brought his Family to the United States. His  best-selling book \\"Kaffir Boy\\" not only supported his Family until they  could be brought to the USA, but brought even more attention to the  malignancy that was Apartheid<br />I am glad they made it, I thank those who  helped them, and I believe the spirit that kept them alive makes them a  great addition to this Country, not only as citizens, but role models.	2000-07-04
2390530:US	53047425	R3FCYEJL3V0WX6	0871137666	415713217	Harbor Lights	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Four part anarchy......	The Author describes a morning of harvesting lobster, and depicts the water where they live as fields, and how a female is released on her back so that the eggs she is laden with are less likely to pull away as she  settles back through the water. With that piece of writing you know you  have picked a winning work.<br />I had never read the work of Mr. Weesner  before, but with that start, my hopes were quickly raised and I was never  disappointed. I was however totally unprepared.<br />When Warren Hudson learns  he has one of the fastest spreading cancers a person can contract, he  simultaneously reviews his life, his regrets, and most importantly how he  will leave his life. The manner by which he contemplates what may lie  beyond life here leads him to a startling series of decisions.<br />This is a  fairly brief work so it is difficult to say very much without giving away  the plot. The story is related almost exclusively through 4 characters,  with quite minor roles played by approximately 4 more.<br />The story is about  emotions at there most severe ranges, and the finest of lines that separate  them, and finally how little it may take to breach that thin barrier. There  was only one part that I didn't feel comfortable with, but to say more  would be to spoil the read.  Mr. Weesner creates memorable characters that  are as extreme as the emotions and passions they are made of. The work is  taut, powerful, and extremely well constructed.<br />Enjoy Mr. Weesner's bit  of New England.	2000-07-03
2392676:US	53047425	RPXR84R5LKZT9	068480770X	794373762	Under a Wing: A Memoir	Books	4	19	24	N	N	The cover tells a story of its own.	I have read Mr. Bergh's book, and the fairly recent Biography of Anne Morrow Lindbergh. I also have come across references to Mr. Lindbergh in many histories of WW II. Finally, I have read about the trial that followed  the death of their first child.<br />The book's cover is telling and comments  made by Ms. Lindbergh about her Family seem to fall into 2 categories, her  Father, and everyone else. Mrs. Lindbergh clearly was the parent to whom  credit for the children of this Family must be given.<br />What does it say  when a family feels &quot;relief&quot; whenever the Father leaves. Ms.  Lindbergh expresses the same feeling at his death. Her sense of relief did  not read as though she was happy his sickness was over, rather relief he,  or part of who he was had gone.<br />Her awareness of her Father's  anti-Semitic speeches, and his role as spokesperson for America First,  slammed into this woman in College. It was not a minor discovery for her.  Her Father may have been the first man to make a given flight, and for that  there is nothing to detract from. His conduct after the celebrity set in  was anything but well handled. As a Father one other reader described him  as a tyrant, I believe his kids were terrified of him, and one Son's story  she touches upon sheds light on the issue.<br />The book was a little light in  presentation, just like A. Scott Bergh's book was. But even that book  described a man who built a wire enclosure outside and instructed his first  child be placed in it, mid-winter to &quot;fend for himself&quot;.<br />Ms.  Lindbergh shares much although not necessarily in the sharpest of focus.  What I would love to read are the writings of Anne Morrow Lindbergh if and  when they ever are released. Some have been, some have not.<br />This was not  Jimmy Stewart playing Lindbergh, this was the real man, and he was  seriously lacking.<br />Mrs. Anne Morrow Lindbergh played herself, and from  all I have read, that person was someone very special.	2000-07-02
2393097:US	53047425	R11O1DPY8W602C	1878448900	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not quite the &quot;Girl With The Pearl&quot;...	With eight short stories or perhaps vignettes, Ms. Vreeman traces an unknown Vermeer from its inception, to a locked room of a Professor with a dark family past. Central to that past is the manner his Father acquired  the painting and the same past that so haunts the son. This book cannot  escape comparison with \\"Girl With A Pearl Earring\\", and while it does not  compare poorly, it certainly finishes second.<br />Some of the eight stories  are good, and some are very good, but they remain just that, pieces of  eight, not a unified tale. I would have liked to have read this as a single  work, one that was not broken apart, shuffled, and left for the reader to  thread a non-sequential storyline together.<br />I enjoyed the book, and the  read is certainly worthwhile. It does not make great demands upon the  reader, but unfortunately it does linger either.	2000-07-02
2393656:US	53047425	R1CMXPDOSSYP3V	0374234612	106059277	Plowing the Dark: A Novel	Books	5	16	19	N	N	I waited several days prior to writing about this book.	I don't think it matters how long you wait, general thoughts are the best people seem to do with this Author. This is the first book of his I have read, and I agree with those that say it is unlike anything they have read  before.<br />I have never read prose that is so frenetic in it's pace, and to  make the experience more interesting, each sentence is so engorged with  words, that are carefully even artfully chosen, that dense does not begin  to describe this Author's use of language. Once you become accustomed to  the pace and richness of what he writes, he becomes readable. Umberto Eco  comes to mind, but this Author is not as burdensome, you participate as a  reader more quickly. I also love Mr. Eco's work; I just never find the  reading comfortable.<br />His knowledge of his material is encyclopedic. He  creates characters that are as unique and varied and sometimes eccentric,  as any other Author I have read. And what does he create with this?<br />There  is a group building &quot;The Cavern&quot;, think of it as a very early  Beta version of the Holodeck on The Enterprise. This is not a place for  recreation; their goals are varied and constantly evolving. This room of no  time, that is supposed to eventually be the perfect VR World, the perfect  forecaster of whatever you like. Or for others an apocalyptic place, it's  potential too horrible to imagine.<br />All of this plays with another story  in the background that superficially could not be less related, and this is  probably the genius of the book. There are a number of Authors writing that  try to be clever and original, they fail with the former as they lack the  latter. Their stories don't hold up because you know the end, halfway or  even less into the book. This time even when you think you know, even after  the end has revealed itself, the book stays with you and you continue to  sort out the dozens of thoughts and philosophies, that the characters from  Countries as different as Armenia, and Ireland, and Korea bring to the  story.<br />The book pulls all of your emotional strings, and most of your  moral and ethical ones as well. If you find yourself immersed in this  Author's writing you are in for one very enigmatic, puzzling, fantastical  ride.<br />Good luck!eland, and Korea bring to the  story.<br />The book pulls all of your emotional strings, and most of your  moral and ethical ones as well. If you find yourself immersed in this  Author's writing you are in for one very enigmatic, puzzling, fantastical  ride.<br />Good luck!	2000-07-01
2394155:US	53047425	R1F8D6N4A5IW10	0805036539	640822246	A Gentle Madness: Bibliophiles, Bibliomanes, and the Eternal Passion for Books	Books	5	147	151	N	N	If you read, this book will become a prized volume....	Literally anyone who enjoys reading will prize this book. I had mentioned and quoted briefly from the book on my personal page, and received questions about the work, as well as many people who said they too had the  disease.<br />There is truly a Psychological condition that describes people  obsessed with books, the condition is known as Bibliomania, derivatives  include Bibliomaniac, and Bibliomane. The Author describes a condition of  buying books you have no intention of reading. For most of us (I am  afflicted) this means we buy and read books as much as we can. I have  crossed over to collecting old books, and since they are in Latin, Greek,  and other languages unknown to me, my defense that I will read them is  weak.<br />You will read about a man who &quot;collected&quot; over 23,000  books from various libraries and other book outlets just to possess them.  His library grew as he traveled around the Country adding to his  collection. His taste was excellent and his library contained priceless  volumes by the hundreds. His story illustrates how easy access is to rare  books and further how they can be purloined. It is not a how to steal books  section, just one amazing tale.<br />The book also documents the  building/collection of some of the finest libraries in existence. The  libraries are as varied as there are books. One women set out to build the  definitive library of children's books, what she has collected will amaze  you.<br />The attitudes of the caretakers of these works view themselves as  just that, keepers for a time, their feelings about where books should be,  and should never be will surprise you. What is done with many collections  after the original assembler dies will also surprise you.<br />The book also  educates the reader to the History of bookmaking, the few surviving  Guttenberg Bibles, books from the cradle i.e. incunabula, produced prior to  the year 1400ad.<br />This book will probably set you off to an antiquarian  bookfair, for lovers of books it's a special experience. Hold a first  edition by Galileo, see 1 page of a Guttenberg Bible that for  $25,000-$30,000 can be yours. Or for the upscale shopper you can bid  against Bill Gates for the Leicester Codex of Da Vinci, in round numbers  bring about $40,000,000.<br />After you read the book, everything you read  going forward will be enhanced. But tread carefully; the collection of old  books is not an inexpensive hobby. On the other hand holding a book that is  500 years old can be a pretty heady experience.<br />Every library will be  enhanced by this book.or lovers of books it's a special experience. Hold a first  edition by Galileo, see 1 page of a Guttenberg Bible that for  $25,000-$30,000 can be yours. Or for the upscale shopper you can bid  against Bill Gates for the Leicester Codex of Da Vinci, in round numbers  bring about $40,000,000.<br />After you read the book, everything you read  going forward will be enhanced. But tread carefully; the collection of old  books is not an inexpensive hobby. On the other hand holding a book that is  500 years old can be a pretty heady experience.<br />Every library will be  enhanced by this book.	2000-07-01
2395868:US	53047425	RB5WJ1VFS5QCG	047111975X	591262487	Caravans to Oblivion: The Armenian Genocide, 1915	Books	5	46	59	N	N	Why &quot;Young Turk&quot; is not a compliment...	Genocide is a pure evil; it comes as close to an absolute as anything else I can think of. The Genocide documented in this book was perpetrated by &quot;The Young Turks&quot; against Christians, and in the case of this  demented terror the primary target were the people of Armenia.<br />What makes  this mass murder so unique is that the Turkish Government to this day does  not accept responsibility for what they did, they do not even admit that  the slaughter took place. In a demonstration of arrogance that is supreme,  they recently raised a Memorial to the Turks killed by Armenians.<br />This  book was harder to read than others on Genocides that are more familiar,  for me it was as difficult to read as &quot;The Rape Of Nanking&quot;. I  would never insult the memory of any victims, but these last two episodes I  mention were particularly brutal, particularly sadistic. Neither were  assembly line killings. Like the Jews that were worked to death, Armenians  were marched into the desert until their skin blackened and they died. Farm  implements were often the murder weapons of choice to dismember victims.  The Turkish Soldiers would place bets like their counterparts in Nanking as  to the gender of a child a pregnant woman carried. Then they found out who  won. The details I leave to your own thoughts.<br />How outrageous was this?  When certain Armenians took matters into their own hands and assassinated  the cowardly leaders of Turkey that fled to Germany, German juries let them  go. They were appalled by what was done, and the fact the German Military  was to a degree complicit.<br />It is alleged that when confronted with the  question of how the world would ever tolerate the &quot;Final  Solution&quot; of Hitler's Germany, Hitler was said to have answered,  &quot;Who remembers the 1.5 million Armenians&quot;, and only 15 years had  passed.<br />Other Countries who have committed crimes against Humanity have  admitted their acts some have even paid reparations. Turkey's government  remains unique, in that they compare unfavorably to The Germany of the  Third Reich.<br />A dubious distinction.. Turkey's government  remains unique, in that they compare unfavorably to The Germany of the  Third Reich.<br />A dubious distinction.	2000-06-30
2397567:US	53047425	RCFAC4RNDQ8PE	0609601423	75077454	The Lying Stones of Marrakech: Penultimate Reflections in Natural History	Books	5	21	21	N	N	He does tribute to his subjects while complimenting readers	I am fairly new to the writings of Mr. Gould; happily his writings are extensive, as this book will have newcomers searching for more. Several of the 23 essays threatened at times to go over the head of this reader, this  was neatly solved by Mr. Gould as he writes for those who are not equipped  with a heavily science-based background, but he never demeans his topics by  bringing them down to what some reviewers call &quot;readable&quot;. This  book made me work a bit, it may require no effort on your behalf, and  either way the reader wins.<br />&quot;How the Vulva Stone became a  Brachiopod&quot; stands at one end of the spectrum of the book, and his  tributes to Carl Sagan and Joe DiMmaggio at the other. That Mr. Gould can  collect essays seemingly so disparate is a tribute to his genius, and to  his writing.<br />The introductions to various essays are wonderful as well.  He mentions the famous note once written in a margin; Fermat's Enigma, and  ultimately brings you to his topic of Geology, but he starts with a memory  of a teacher who he muses might have kept a box marked &quot;pieces of  string not worth saving&quot;. At other places it might be Mark McGwire's  exploits in a sport the Author clearly loves, or a poem by Robert Frost  that beautifully ushers in his message.<br />He gives &quot;Political  Correctness&quot; a sharp notation with the paragraph ending &quot;the  first time a tragedy, the second as farce&quot;. Even the notes he makes in  his own margins are stand-alone bits for the reader. His comment on the  &quot;illogic and hypocrisy of public attitudes to drugs&quot; starts and  ends as a note, the essay hopefully will follow. This is not his last  collection of essays but the penultimate, so we have one more to look  forward to.<br />One of his introductions refers to Christopher Wren who was  laid to rest in what Mr. Gould feels is his finest architectural  achievement, the reconstructed St. Paul's Cathedral. Mr. Wren's Son  arranged for no great monument rather an inscription that read, \\"If you are  searching for his monument look around\\". Mr. Gould suggested it was a tad  grandiose; someday it may be inscribed for another genius that the person  \\"read around\\"<br />A great collection from a great mind. Easy, not always,  worthwhile, every bit.great monument rather an inscription that read, \\"If you are  searching for his monument look around\\". Mr. Gould suggested it was a tad  grandiose; someday it may be inscribed for another genius that the person  \\"read around\\"<br />A great collection from a great mind. Easy, not always,  worthwhile, every bit.	2000-06-29
2397972:US	53047425	RHZGKJBPF1EWL	0465003109	949106200	The Sword And The Shield: The Mitrokhin Archive And The Secret History Of The KGB	Books	4	109	114	N	N	Don't make this the first book you read on the topic...	This is a large body of work containing an enormous amount of information. The reason for the 4 stars is that I just don't feel that all the information from the KGB files can be taken without any skepticism at all.  This is not really harsh criticism just an acknowledgement that with the  flood of documents coming from the former Soviet Union and it's Republics,  some prudent skepticism is called for. It also is not a comment on Mr.  Mitrokhin, truth versus deception, disinformation, and lies, was part of  the daily life in the Soviet Union. It is possible all his information is  uncorrupted, but a bit of a jaundiced view is reasonably called for.<br />The  book is interesting and loaded with information. I don't suggest this as a  first book about the KGB because it reads more like a textbook; it is very  meticulous to the point tedious in detail at times. If the subject is one  you have some familiarity with, this volume could serve as an excellent  reference work. If this were the first book you were to read on the topic,  reaching the end would be challenging.<br />Vasily Nikitich Mitrokhin oversaw  300,000 files on an exhaustive list of prominent names in American History.  If there was a person who had access to a library of information, Mr.  Mitrokhin certainly qualifies. His willingness to remove information on a  daily basis for years on end is both a testament to his courage, and an  amazing period of luck.<br />The work is excellent in depth and breadth of  material covered. It is not light reading as the subjects that are covered,  or sometimes mentioned briefly, have been the topic of entire books. If you  are willing to make the effort and devote the time, your knowledge of this  particular man's cache of information will greatly expand your knowledge of  what some of the KGB's activities were. With the passing of time a more  complete picture will emerge of this opponent of The Cold War. It certainly  is not the final word on the matter, but an excellent piece of the  story.<br />Well worth reading if given the time.lent piece of the  story.<br />Well worth reading if given the time.	2000-06-28
2400591:US	53047425	R2M4EVJ4MZRV09	0151005133	763449972	Spytime: The Undoing of James Jesus Angleton	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Writing to be admired...	Mr. Buckley writes at a level of consistent excellence that few other Authors achieve even once. Often criticized for the use of words many find arcane, if they have a decent vocabulary of their own, or too long for  those who articulate poorly, Mr. Buckley's writing and his spoken thoughts  may require a bit more effort, but you are well rewarded for it. As with  many petty complaints it is an issue of size, his lexicon is infinite to  most, while the detractor's are brief, short, diminutive.<br />With a  dictionary at hand &quot;Spytime&quot; is one of the better works of  fiction Mr. Buckley has written. The same title in the hands of others  would lead the reader on some chaotic hunt, a race against the clock to  save the world yet again from a sort of super weapon, mechanical or  biologic. The hero would of course find the vital clue by holding the last  piece of writing of a German Corporal up to a mirror, having absconded with  the relic from the mantle of Saddam, and enter, speak, sign, or write in  the sand the solution to mankind's continued survival. Lest you think I  jest check out the &quot;Political Thriller&quot; area of your  bookstore.<br />Mr. Buckley resorts to history and the people who made it, in  this case James Jesus Angleton, to deliver thought provoking historical  fiction that does not require 007 toys, or pages of empty-headed sexual  gymnastics to engage the reader. Mr. Buckley writes for your mind not your  Libido, and by so doing demonstrates his hope that there are still readers  who appreciate the fine craft of writing as opposed to the scribblers who  have been published to fill ever-expanding book superstores.<br />All the  elements are here and they are part of a whole, not some gee-whiz look  behind the door contrivance after 300 pages of rubbish.<br />Philby, MacLean,  Burgess, and Kennedy times two, Castro, Mussolini, Khrushchev, Churchill,  President Truman to President Carter, and all Presidents in between, are a  sampling of those who play a role in this book. Too many, too much, too  confusing?, not for a moment.<br />Mr. Buckley presents the reader with a  story, and while a bit of thought enhances the experience, and some  knowledge of History is required, to pass this book by for lesser fare is  to do yourself an injustice.<br />Many reviewers lament plots that cannot keep  themselves in sequence, suffer from historical dementia, lack or need an  editor, and someone who can spell. Those people need not worry with this  work.<br />This book asks for your time and rewards that most valuable  commodity most generously.those who play a role in this book. Too many, too much, too  confusing?, not for a moment.<br />Mr. Buckley presents the reader with a  story, and while a bit of thought enhances the experience, and some  knowledge of History is required, to pass this book by for lesser fare is  to do yourself an injustice.<br />Many reviewers lament plots that cannot keep  themselves in sequence, suffer from historical dementia, lack or need an  editor, and someone who can spell. Those people need not worry with this  work.<br />This book asks for your time and rewards that most valuable  commodity most generously.	2000-06-27
2402213:US	53047425	R3CYRWBWBK5NCP	1565122461	216751265	The Sky Unwashed	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A great book lost in the mass market mediocrity of books.	I am only the sixth reader to have reviewed this book, however the five who precede me are unanimous in their Judgement, 5 stars. This is the first work by Irene Zabytko and judged by any literary measure, it is ranked  about 18,000 places lower than it deserves.<br />This book is about a small  piece of that former Empire that one of our Presidents called evil. It  chronicles the suffering surrounding an event, which probably all are  familiar with. What the work also does is to show how cruel, how wretched,  how evil, a typical day in that former Forced union of Republics was.<br />The  truth is visible, the truth can literally be tasted, but people conditioned  for so long to the distorted reality of their leaders is still given pause.  They are comforted when a &quot;Pioneer&quot;, a young girl in the Soviet  School System in her uniform of white with a red tie, hands them an  envelope, the contents of which will keep them healthy.<br />This book then  centers on women, mostly &quot;babysi&quot; and the choices they make when  faced with alternatives that differ only in the misery they will endure.  Their decisions seen from a distance are illogical, placed in the context  of this story and the system they live under, their decisions become noble.  Despite lifetimes mislead by deceit they know what they want even as they  know the outcome with certainty.<br />This is a novel, but the story, the  insanity that was and is Chornobyl/Chernobyl is more poignant in this book  than any report you have watched or listened to. It is more frightening and  more abominable when experienced through the \\"fictional\\" eyes of these  characters.<br />Ms. Zabytko takes a recent historical event, and renders a  tale that reads as if written with other great 19th century works. Novels  that are famous for there detail, for the reality they create. The true  time frame intrudes only when a word like television is mentioned. Much  more important and so well done is the description of the baking of a  wedding bread in a communal clay stove. This Authoress has a talent for  turning characters into people you see clearly in your mind's eye, and  would look twice if you saw a similar face amidst your day.<br />A Cat that  becomes a timepiece for death, a woman who climbs the stairs of her Church  to ring bells that she has no right to hope anyone will hear. A beautiful  story, if a Requiem for a small town named Starylis and it's people can be  so called.<br />Extremely well done.the baking of a  wedding bread in a communal clay stove. This Authoress has a talent for  turning characters into people you see clearly in your mind's eye, and  would look twice if you saw a similar face amidst your day.<br />A Cat that  becomes a timepiece for death, a woman who climbs the stairs of her Church  to ring bells that she has no right to hope anyone will hear. A beautiful  story, if a Requiem for a small town named Starylis and it's people can be  so called.<br />Extremely well done.	2000-06-26
2402410:US	53047425	RNSFXDH9A62LW	0684844893	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	5	23	33	N	N	History Versus The Twistery Thereof	Mr. Wills is a great talent, for not only is he a scholar he has the rare gift of making what is often tedious to read interesting, and transform what is often made overly complex into the concepts as originally  envisioned. This is not meant to suggest this book is an easy read if given  the time it deserves, rather that the more time you invest the more  rewarded and more knowledgeable you will be.<br />I found the other reviews  interesting as I read them before I read the book. As is evident  individuals have opinions that reside at such opposite poles I paused at  times wondering if I had the same book. The extreme responses to this book,  from the left to right illustrate much of what Mr. Wills discusses in this  book. When he examines the documents that lead to the final instruments of  law that guide this Country's Government, whether during the drafting or  after they were written, the interpretation was often as varied as the  number of readers.<br />The book is segmented into 9 areas of discussion.  While none of the headings seem new, the manner with which he illustrates  the issues are fresh, clever, and by using examples to the near or very  near present, he makes the theories more accessible, and more  interesting.<br />History has a tendency to get both romanticized and  categorized so the issues appear clear, very little gray, lots of black and  white. The book contains 2 sections on Myths, Revolutionary and  Constitutional. They are not revisionist tirades liberal or conservative in  their rendering. They are meticulously argued and notated positions that  other learned individuals may take issue with, but they are some of the  best I have read.<br />History is complex when you wish to understand the  roles and differences between; Nullifiers, Seceders, Insurrectionists,  Vigilantes, Withdrawers, and Disobeyers, and the roles they played or  refused to play that shaped our Country. What the Author does so well is to  explain insurrection with examples from Daniel Shays to Timothy McVeigh,  Vigilantes from the Regulators of 18th century South Carolina to the  bombing of Abortion Clinics today.<br />In addition Henry David Thoreau, Henry  L. Mencken, Albert Jay Nock, and Henry Adams all make appearances. And he  reaches from Brook Farm to the Hippie Communes of the 1960's when  explaining the place of Withdrawers in our History.<br />Mr. Wills has a gift  for brilliant reasoning and thought, together with the discipline to  buttress his positions with fact and historical notation. He is the type of  scholar that is a pleasure to read if only to appreciate his thought  process whether you agree with him or not.<br />Don't deny yourself this  reading experience.les from Daniel Shays to Timothy McVeigh,  Vigilantes from the Regulators of 18th century South Carolina to the  bombing of Abortion Clinics today.<br />In addition Henry David Thoreau, Henry  L. Mencken, Albert Jay Nock, and Henry Adams all make appearances. And he  reaches from Brook Farm to the Hippie Communes of the 1960's when  explaining the place of Withdrawers in our History.<br />Mr. Wills has a gift  for brilliant reasoning and thought, together with the discipline to  buttress his positions with fact and historical notation. He is the type of  scholar that is a pleasure to read if only to appreciate his thought  process whether you agree with him or not.<br />Don't deny yourself this  reading experience.	2000-06-26
2409079:US	53047425	R2PEYVIL23U6RA	0312264372	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor: A Covert-One Novel	Books	1	59	71	N	N	Hopefully Covert One is the one and only.	\\"He yanked the steering wheel, turned the RV around, and blasted it out of the forest like toothpaste from a tube.\\" I do not believe that Mr. Ludlum would write that wretched a metaphor.<br />I am about as loyal a reader of Mr.  Ludlum as I could be. I have read all of his books, and certainly some have  been better than others, however this breaks new ground and then sinks into  it. The only bright spot is that he has what I hope will be a great novel  that is shown on the inside cover, \\"The Prometheus Deception\\", arriving  this fall. This next work will carry only his name, and I hope it restores  him to the top of the list in this genre. Reviewers did not greet his last  full novel with great enthusiasm.<br />Read the description of the book's  storyline on the back cover, think for a moment, and if it sounds familiar,  don't be surprised. The same description could be used for one of this  summer's movies, and a ticket to it costs less. The mechanics of how the  story is carried out, again from another movie from the not too distant  past.<br />I lived in the town and worked in one of the Cities that are used  in the book. No one involved with this book knows anything about the City  in question. They mention a prominent structure and it's newness. I don't  now how you describe a structure that has stood for decades as new, or  recent, or in the last 20 years. The book is riddled with factual errors;  the story has been done many times, and done many times better.<br />Mr.  Ludlum evidently produced this as a joint effort with Ms. Gayle Lynds. I  have no idea who wrote what, but the result is not worth your reading  time.<br />At one point during the story President Castilla of the United  States says, \\"Are we all to perish under our own stupidity\\". The answer Mr.  President is yes, if you believe a massive Pharmaceutical Campus can be  built in a National Park.<br />Buy and read almost anything else.	2000-06-22
2414313:US	53047425	R2R2ZRJL1VCOMY	1585670138	487265671	The Pied Piper's Poison	Books	5	9	12	N	N	One Million Four Hundred Sixty Six Thousand and Twenty Three	As I write, the number above is the rank this book currently occupies as denoted by sales. There must have been a meeting on the &quot;grassy knoll&quot; of publishers to keep this brilliant work from us. The book has  only recently been published here in the US, this month, but Europe has  been enjoying this work of Mr. Wallace's since 1998 and in 5  languages!<br />The work is brilliant, for this to be a debut novel is only  just this side of remarkable. The last premier of an Author that came close  to this type of exciting discovery was \\"In The Fall\\" by Mr. Jeffrey Lent.  The works do not share the same genre unless excellence has now been named  as such.<br />The book moves like a wraith from the era of the pre-Reformation  Catholic Church during the 30 years war to Eastern Europe as it stumbles  from the nightmare of WW II into the evil existence that is Mr. Wallace's  creation. The reading of this book is truly an experience, a dark and evil  feeling that Edgar Allan Poe would leave a reader with. Reading this book  is to almost be infected with one of the forms of dread that lies in wait  for you in this work.<br />The seemingly few graphic descriptions of suffering  almost pass you by, as unease leaves you cold and trying not to think about  the implications you have read. There is nothing common in the manner the  Author delivers his terror to you. Much of the book you are in a group  listening to the protagonist recount his story many years after he believes  he understands what it is that happened.<br />The Pied Piper of Hamelin is as  evil in the hands of Mr. Wallace as that player of pipes has ever been. His  memory alone tortures those in a holding camp in Tarutz Poland, indeed it  drives one expected to be the most rational insane.<br />When the young Doctor  enters Tarutz for the first time it is as follows \\"the despair hit me as  soon as we entered, seeping in silently through the windows, through the  leather soles of my boots, the wretched earth laden with poisonous seed. If  hell has a garden, an underworld equivalent of Eden, we were now  there.\\"<br />Fantastic writing, great story, and the talent pours from the  book as from one of the masters of the 19th Century.<br />You will love this  book!laden with poisonous seed. If  hell has a garden, an underworld equivalent of Eden, we were now  there.\\"<br />Fantastic writing, great story, and the talent pours from the  book as from one of the masters of the 19th Century.<br />You will love this  book!	2000-06-20
2417317:US	53047425	R75D3OB0T7IN3	0385476973	649618701	The Great Shame: And The Triumph Of The Irish In The English -Speaking World	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Heroic effort to bring so much History to one momentous work	This book first caught my attention, as this is the Author who penned what has become a classic both in book and movie form, &quot;Schindler's List&quot;. The book also was to explain much about the Australian aspect  of the Irish Diaspora that was a facet I had not read about. My  Great-Grandfather came to the US and his Brother went to Australia, so  there was personal interest as well.<br />The book is sweeping in many  respects, its length, the time in History it covers, and the meticulous  research that must have been required in its creation. The beauty of the  work is it can be read as a major Historical Work or if the reader prefers,  a 19th Century novel.<br />I found the writing to be very dense requiring more  time than I normally would take to read such a book. There is so much  information that if much of it is new and you wish to really get your mind  around it, it requires a good deal of time. I actually read the book in  parts and took time to put in to perspective what I had read. This book is  probably about double the length or even more than that of the average book  today, but don't deny yourself a great read because it takes two hands to  carry.<br />Irish History is not the material that makes for many happy  endings. Another reviewer mused about what they would think of this book in  England, I think it would be hard to find on a bookshelf! The History of  and the time that brackets The Great Famine is as grim as any human  suffering you have read before. The English landlords behavior was  atrocious and this book pulls no punches in that regard. The Author also  talks about some of the more unsavory groups that operated in Ireland and  often found themselves on a ship to the other side of the world. To the  Author's credit he does not dwell, he recounts History and it's left to the  reader to draw conclusions. Someone else wrote there were some factual  errors and they appear well informed. I don't believe they are detrimental  to the work or its merit, they are worth knowing for historical  accuracy.<br />Whether you are Irish or not the book is time well spent. At  the conclusion you will be sorry it's over, but I always take that as a  sign it was a great read. And as someone once said &quot;there are no Irish  stories with happy endings&quot;. This book may not be uplifting in the  traditional sense, but as present developments in the news are showing that  saying may yet be proven wrong. Ireland is doing very well as it enters the  21st Century, and some of the descendents of those who were forced to  leave, are now returning.<br />As the Diaspora Descendents returns, and  Ireland flourishes, that would be the happiest ending of all.r its merit, they are worth knowing for historical  accuracy.<br />Whether you are Irish or not the book is time well spent. At  the conclusion you will be sorry it's over, but I always take that as a  sign it was a great read. And as someone once said &quot;there are no Irish  stories with happy endings&quot;. This book may not be uplifting in the  traditional sense, but as present developments in the news are showing that  saying may yet be proven wrong. Ireland is doing very well as it enters the  21st Century, and some of the descendents of those who were forced to  leave, are now returning.<br />As the Diaspora Descendents returns, and  Ireland flourishes, that would be the happiest ending of all.	2000-06-18
2418080:US	53047425	R18HWNH1JGXVA4	0151005893	376797360	Jumping Fire: A Smokejumper's Memoir of Fighting Wildfire	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Some people lament there are no new heroes............	Anyone who may feel that way has not read about these men and women who day in and day out perform a job that otherwise would be considered a daredevil act.<br />Jumping out of planes is too much for most of us; it's one  of the safer parts of their job. They never make the same jump twice, they  often land in a target area that is basically a vertical shaft between 150  foot trees, in an area some sports utility vehicles could not turn around  in, and that's just the start.<br />The fire can suck them in; they can get  hung up in a tree 50, 100, 150 feet in the air and then have to climb down.  Or worse many of the tops of these trees are like spikes. Imagine being  impaled through the thigh 150 feet in the air, like an olive in a Martini.  You need not imagine this or dozens of other terrifying scenarios as the  book shares them all with you.<br />The Author Mr. Taylor is the oldest man to  jump fires, a job he has been doing for 26 years. And if you happen to be  over 50 years of age, this man is definitely a special role model.<br />Former  Marines who become Jumpers say it is tougher than the boot camp they had as  Marines. One of 25 who make the attempt to become a Jumper make the  program, and of those not a few decide a year or two is more than  enough.<br />The stamina of these men and women is beyond belief, I would  imagine a qualified individual could compare what they do to any  professional athlete and my guess is they would be at or near the top.  These people are often at brutal back breaking lethal work for days on  end.<br />Mr. Taylor shares amazing stories about amazing people; he is very  candid about his personal life and all that his profession precludes. He  also shares the banter amongst the crews when they have time to share  stories the subjects rather forget. There are dozens and they are laughing  out loud hilarious. Imagine jumping crashing through trees and landing on a  Moose?<br />These people take everything very seriously. When one jumper was  reminded of the time he crashed right through the roof of an outhouse, he  was unbowed. &quot;It was a $20 bet, who could come closest, I  won!&quot;<br />One heck of a book!jumper was  reminded of the time he crashed right through the roof of an outhouse, he  was unbowed. &quot;It was a $20 bet, who could come closest, I  won!&quot;<br />One heck of a book!	2000-06-18
2418808:US	53047425	R3TSRLK8SVEKNV	0380976501	398069025	And Still We Rise: The Trials and Triumphs of Twelve Gifted Inner-city High School Students	Books	5	23	25	N	N	&quot;What is our aim?&quot;	&quot;Victory, victory is spite of all terror; victory, however long and hard the road made be; for without victory, there is no survival.&quot; 13 May 1940 Sir Winston Spencer Churchill<br />Mr. Churchill certainly was not  thinking about Crenshaw in South Central Los Angeles when he spoke those  words. He was in fact speaking near the beginning of World War II. Sadly  the quote is appropriate after reading of the day-to-day life of this small  war zone.<br />Bullets are fired through the windows as teachers try to teach.  Bullets and knives take the lives of friends and Family of the 12 Students  this book focuses upon. Bullets penetrate the homes they live in. Many of  these students come from backgrounds that would prevent virtually anyone  from existing much less excelling.<br />The teachers of these students have  issues as well. How do you teach Advanced Placement English without  textbooks? Read and you will find out. If it seems impossible, the  conditions almost did claim one teacher.<br />This is about one year and 12  kids, and the phenomenal amount of success they achieved. The excellence  however is repeated year after year. As I read I was trying to decide  whether these kids excelled because of, or in spite of what they faced. It  really came down to each individual's story.<br />This book also touches on  the issue of Affirmative Action and it's demise in California during the  Senior Year of these students. They did not have to deal with the fallout,  but subsequent classes did, and they will as well when they reach Graduate  School. Did killing Affirmative Action have an effect; the book gives the  results of subsequent classes and their experiences.<br />These kids are  accepted at Yale, Stanford, Babson, Colby, UCLA, the list includes any top  school you care to name. And when they arrive at College their performance  remains well above the norm.<br />&quot;Toya's stepfather strangled her Mother  to death when Toya was in fifth grade. Olivia, a ward of the County, had  lived in 10 different foster and group homes by the time she was 16. Sadi,  who grew up as a gangbanger, has seen 3 of his homies die and numerous  others go to jail. Stories such as these are part of everyday life for the  gifted students of Crenshaw High School.&quot;<br />That's 3 of the 12  students in one year at Crenshaw. I'm glad I didn't have to compete with  them based on merit and drive; I would have lost, repeatedly.<br />Mama  Moultrie, Toni Little, Scott Braxton and others all provide for an amazing  reading experience. They are amongst the teachers and administrators that  maintain these programs in spite of the detractors.<br />Olivia's story was  unique in some ways, as her story included how depraved the system is  that's supposed to care of these kids. Olivia is to transfer to the school  she has always wanted to attend. Olivia, there is a member of our household  who is a Graduate of that same school. Contact if you ever are in need, you  already have gained our respect and best wishes.<br />Remarkable book,  remarkable people.ward of the County, had  lived in 10 different foster and group homes by the time she was 16. Sadi,  who grew up as a gangbanger, has seen 3 of his homies die and numerous  others go to jail. Stories such as these are part of everyday life for the  gifted students of Crenshaw High School.&quot;<br />That's 3 of the 12  students in one year at Crenshaw. I'm glad I didn't have to compete with  them based on merit and drive; I would have lost, repeatedly.<br />Mama  Moultrie, Toni Little, Scott Braxton and others all provide for an amazing  reading experience. They are amongst the teachers and administrators that  maintain these programs in spite of the detractors.<br />Olivia's story was  unique in some ways, as her story included how depraved the system is  that's supposed to care of these kids. Olivia is to transfer to the school  she has always wanted to attend. Olivia, there is a member of our household  who is a Graduate of that same school. Contact if you ever are in need, you  already have gained our respect and best wishes.<br />Remarkable book,  remarkable people.	2000-06-17
2419009:US	53047425	R37A8LO2M5U9YS	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	5	136	185	N	N	The &quot;Church&quot; is not a man, it is the sum of it's members.	Mr. Wills is not desirous of destroying the Church, he has written a meticulously detailed argument which if listened to would lead to a healthier growing Catholic Church, rather than one which is very often  subject to the rule of one man's feelings, and an institutional mindset  that refuses to admit error.<br />Some of the issues he addresses are, The  Holocaust, the step by step revisions of Vatican II Decisions,  &quot;Humanae Vitae&quot; of Paul VI and the wreckage caused by it and Paul  IX's &quot;Syllabus Of Errors.\\" the shrinking Body of the Church, the role  or lack thereof of women in the church, Gay Priests, abuse by Church  Members by Clergy, celibacy, contraception and the inability of Priests to  marry. This is a 312-page work; it contains over 170 specific references to  the Bible, and dozens more from the writings of St. Augustine, St. Paul,  St. Peter, Newman, Jerome, Consentius, Tertullian, and many others.<br />If a  person accepts the decisions of The Pope without a thought that same person  is confirming exactly what Mr. Will is saying. Further, by following the  decisions of The Pope you are willingly accepting, &quot;economies of  truth&quot;, historical falsehoods, deception, and at times lies, and  arbitrary and capricious decisions by men who overrule the same councils  they convene, when that council refuses to endorse that which the Pope  wants. Not what the Bible teaches, not what Christ taught, what a single  man wants.<br />Is not the number of Seminarians an indicator of the health of  the Church's Structure? In 1965 there were 50,000 seminarians, by 1997  there were 5,000, by 1999 the number was 2,500. Forget the book, what does  that tell you as a reasoning individual? The average age of a Priest in the  US is 58, 25% are over the age of 70? What does that indicate to you?<br />In  1983 the Bishops began debating the role of women in the Church. With Pope  John Paul II now at the Vatican, his suggestion for women was they should  use the Virgin Mary as their &quot;pattern of humility&quot;. For the first  time ever The Conference of Bishops voted down their own work, which had  been so damaged by the Pope, its contents so retrograde, it was compared  with the Humanae Vitae. This pattern of conduct by a Pope is not something  that needs to be mined from millennia ago. It is true that those Popes make  for excellent reading, as they are examples of some of the greatest  displays of hypocrisy and debauchery ever documented. These same Historical  Time Periods also lead to much of the nonsense that is killing the Church  today.<br />Does the Bible say that Priests may not marry, NO. Does the Bible  say that women may not be Priests, NO. Does the Bible say that Priests must  be celibate, NO. The answer is no, no, no it does not. The written  gymnastics that have been attempted to justify these positions are  unbelievable. The majority of today's Priests (80%) do not believe in the  stance on contraception. Judging by the smaller size of Families, including  those who attend the Catholic Church, neither do they. If they are  maintaining the small numbers of children through the &quot;Rhythm  Method&quot; they should buy lottery tickets, they are the luckiest people  alive!<br />There are 188 dioceses in the US. EVERY ONE has had a least one  case of pedophilia. This does not include relationships amongst adults.  Despite the policy of silence and deceit about these events by September  1994 60 Priests or Brothers were in Prison. Not all offenders were so  treated; the church sent a notorious case of Father Peebles to Tulane  University where they paid his tuition of $22,000 per year with an  additional $800 per month for himself. He studied to become a lawyer.<br />The  Pope has lead the Church through mistakes in the past, remember Galileo?  The body of the Church who the Pope serves has become more informed every  day. They no longer accept &quot;rules&quot; based on nothing but personal  opinions of a variety of Popes. They are not willing to conduct themselves  in a manner that is reckless or irresponsible, i.e. contraception. What is  even more threatening to the Church is that Priests will no longer teach  that which they do not believe. So the seminaries empty, Churches have no  resident Pastor, and in the years to come you will be driving some distance  to hear a Priest in person.<br />Mr. Wills has written a scholarly,  meticulously documented work. Sit with a Bible, read every reference he  makes. Then sit back and think for yourself, Christ never taught that we  should be automatons. If the Popes stay their course and continue to run  over the Bishops and the Church (the human members) it is being told that  the following is what they must worship under.<br />&quot;The Pope alone we  are now asked to accept is competent to tell Christian people how to live.  No one else can have any say in the matter- not a Council, not the college  of all Bishops, not the national synod of Bishops, not the Christian  people. The Holy Spirit now speaks to only one person on Earth, the omni  competent head of the Church, a church that is all head and no limbs. If  that were so, then the body of Christ would be shamefully reduced.&quot;s of a variety of Popes. They are not willing to conduct themselves  in a manner that is reckless or irresponsible, i.e. contraception. What is  even more threatening to the Church is that Priests will no longer teach  that which they do not believe. So the seminaries empty, Churches have no  resident Pastor, and in the years to come you will be driving some distance  to hear a Priest in person.<br />Mr. Wills has written a scholarly,  meticulously documented work. Sit with a Bible, read every reference he  makes. Then sit back and think for yourself, Christ never taught that we  should be automatons. If the Popes stay their course and continue to run  over the Bishops and the Church (the human members) it is being told that  the following is what they must worship under.<br />&quot;The Pope alone we  are now asked to accept is competent to tell Christian people how to live.  No one else can have any say in the matter- not a Council, not the college  of all Bishops, not the national synod of Bishops, not the Christian  people. The Holy Spirit now speaks to only one person on Earth, the omni  competent head of the Church, a church that is all head and no limbs. If  that were so, then the body of Christ would be shamefully reduced.&quot;	2000-06-17
2426039:US	53047425	RLEARE6FBGDDH	0393048632	218325066	When Broken Glass Floats: Growing Up Under the Khmer Rouge	Books	5	36	44	N	N	&quot;It lives symbiotically inside of me.&quot;	That sentence is how Ms. Chanrithy Him describes where her soul rests, her old soul. When she came to America she feels she has a new body, but her core remains untouched.<br />Another reviewer states that these stories make  him angry. There is no manner with which you can read a book like this and  not feel a range of emotions of which anger might be the kindest  description of what you feel. The evil, the cruelty that Humans inflict  upon each other is so regular and so savage, I like finish books like this  and I don't know what to feel. If this were an isolated incident, an  aberration it would be easier to examine as any exception may be  dissected.<br />Just during the 20th Century the following list of Genocides  come to mind in the order they occurred, The slaughter of Armenians by the  &quot;Young Turks&quot; when they decided to try to eradicate Armenia once  again. This is where the phrase &quot;Young Turk&quot; originated. So if  you hear it used, hopefully the speaker is not complimenting on the  genocidal personality to whom the comment is directed. The speaker is  probably just poorly informed. The Turkish Government to this day denies  the Genocide ever took place. The Holocaust of the Jewish people by the  Germany of WW II. Unlike Turkey Germany has taken responsibility for what  took place within her borders. The Japanese and the butchery they engaged  in while they occupied Nanking in China. The Demons who are described in  this book, lead by Pol Pot, again millions died. Arguably the distinction  of greatest mass murder of all time would be the Russia/USSR of Lenin,  Stalin, and the criminals who followed them. The carnage continues in  Chechnya, and the majority of the Former Republics are trying to stay fed  and warm.<br />Ms. Him is an astonishing human being. She not only survived  this horror as a child, she had the courage to recall and place this horror  in writing so that the rest of the world would know what she saw. She is an  example of what the Human Spirit and its desire to survive are capable of.  It is beyond my ability to imagine.<br />This little girl who would remember  and continue to display respect with the traditional &quot;sampea&quot;  when greeting someone, when to do so could have gotten her killed. She was  as scared as anyone caught in this man made hell, but she was defiant and  true to herself, perhaps that helped her to survive.<br />I had to put this  book aside more than once while reading. The last book I had as much  trouble getting through was &quot;The Rape Of Nanking&quot;. I never  finished that book. I have read about the Historical events that I listed  above, but that book was especially brutal. If may have been the  photographs.<br />The photographs in this book are not what you would expect.  Ms. Him leaves the story between her and the reader, no photographs to  shock, just her memories.<br />Genocide does not stop it only pauses, as the  Hutus and Tutsies recently demonstrated. The sad conclusion may be that  this sort of evil is part of who we are as a species. The events in  Cambodia differ from events in the US in time only. What was done to Native  Americans, The Slave Trade and the race problems that linger to this day,  the difference is of method and time only.<br />Ms. Him also shares the  amusing stories of the difficulties of shaking hands, or of her translating  for Doctors when the description may include certain areas more private  than others. But by sharing this she also shares her transition from her  culture as a child and then her new life as a young woman.<br />Lest anyone  suggest I have a problem with my own Country's History, I will save you the  trouble, I do. The World looks to us whether we choose the role or not, and  candor with ourselves must come first.<br />In the end it did feel good when  the thrill of the future was dominated by the fact she and the survivors in  her Family were coming to the US. Read the description of her first  understanding of freedom, how dry your eyes will not be.<br />Thank you Ms.  Him, and my condolences on the Family and Friends that were taken from you.  Your coming to The United States will make us a better Country.t  understanding of freedom, how dry your eyes will not be.<br />Thank you Ms.  Him, and my condolences on the Family and Friends that were taken from you.  Your coming to The United States will make us a better Country.	2000-06-13
2429470:US	53047425	R2KSZ3BP0E27PY	0805051759	152856396	Esau	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Every rule has an exception, and this book is it.	&quot;Never judge a book by its cover&quot; (Except this one)<br />The first book I read by Mr. Kerr was &quot;The Shot&quot;. I enjoyed the book and was impressed by the skill with which he was able to spin a new tale about  a subject that has been beaten to death, revived, and beaten again, for  almost 40 years. Had `ESAU\\" been the first of his works I had read, it most  probably would have been the last.<br />The cover of the hardback does not  give away the subject, the paperback is different artwork, and it is pretty  blatant in exposing the story. If you are someone who is interested in the  &quot;Yeti, Abominable Snowman, Sasquatch, ESAU&quot; you will enjoy the  book. As he has done with the subject of \\"The Shot\\" he creates a new  situation and adds great detail. I cannot stomach the subject so I never  would have finished the book but for Mr. Kerr's writing.<br />I enjoy  well-researched reading. Mr. Kerr does his homework and that was what kept  me reading. Every time I was going to give up, some detail appeared and it  was enough to keep me going. The ending can be anticipated a bit past the  halfway mark, but again his style kept me reading.<br />Mr. Kerr writes some  great dialogue. In this work I particularly enjoyed a lecture by a college  professor, both for the way he wrote it and the information it contained.  On the other end of the character spectrum he had a few CIA types that were  awful, not one line of their story/subplot was needed, and the behavior by  one at the close of the book was completely out of place, gratuitous, the  real low water mark in the book.<br />So, I have read 2 of his books and it  was 1 great read and then this very marginal work. So off I went and read  &quot;A Five Year Plan&quot;. Best of 3 would decide whether I bought  anymore of this Author's work.<br />I read it and the review should be just  behind this one.	2000-06-12
2430176:US	53047425	R1I4HHCOCF75S4	0805051767	427512567	Five-Year Plan	Books	4	15	16	N	N	This was the tie breaker. 3.5 stars I rounded up.	Unlike many other reviewers, I discovered Mr. Kerr's work much later, so my experience is in working back from &quot;The Shot&quot;. I am not surprised by the reviews as few Authors can maintain a level that marks the  best of their abilities book after book. Readers not only want the new work  to be as good as previous efforts but even better.<br />Of the 3 I have read,  &quot;The Shot&quot;, &quot;ESAU&quot; and now &quot;A Five Year  Plan&quot;, it's 2 out of three and I plan to continue working my way back  through his work. If the other reviewers are correct, the reading  experience should be even better.<br />The enjoyment in this book was the  dialogue. It was the strength of the work and ironically was responsible  for the poorer parts as well. When good it reminded me of &quot;Get  Shorty&quot;, when bad, which was very infrequent, it was the result of  trying to retain a level of cleverness for too long. One-line remarks are  great, but there is a definite limit as to how long they can be sustained,  and in 3 or 4 instances I Believe Mr. Kerr pushed too far. It's a fine line  from a great run of dialogue to one line too many that kills the entire  passage.<br />Like &quot;ESAU&quot; the Governmental Authorities were moronic  with the exception of the Female lead. They are not even interesting in how  empty-headed they are. Creating a character that is boring, annoying, but  interesting to read is a challenge, if the Author misses you get the same  reading enjoyment as you would if you were actually dealing with the  character. And some of them seem to be uncomfortable in their roles, as  they don't have anything to do in the book; they have little to nothing to  do with the story.<br />My ranking of this book is on the dialogue at or near  it's best, and happily that is the majority of the time. The plot is  average as there is nothing so new or clever to keep your attention. The  dialogue is very very good, it is also quite off color, bawdy, or really  crude depending on your taste. So if you don't care for humor that at times  may make you wince, this isn't for you. There is nothing that bad, but for  some, there will be just too much.<br />I'm glad I stuck it out for a third  book. I hope to enjoy the others as much as other reviewers.ude depending on your taste. So if you don't care for humor that at times  may make you wince, this isn't for you. There is nothing that bad, but for  some, there will be just too much.<br />I'm glad I stuck it out for a third  book. I hope to enjoy the others as much as other reviewers.	2000-06-12
2438866:US	53047425	R4RFANNHBT5MO	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	4	33	37	N	N	&quot;Hindsight criticism is always based on fantasy foresight&quot;	For those who felt the two most recent books were short on the snap-hiss of lightsabers and personal combat/conflict, you will find all you want in this latest installment.<br />Shedao Shai leads the Yuuzhan Vong against the  New Republic and a somewhat surprising ally, and brings with him all the  Vong are known for. This book continues to take place in the very dark  abyss R. A. Salvatore dropped this Star Wars experience into with Vector  Prime. The sadomasochism of the Vong is more intense this time around, and  I am tiring of it. Evil always was portrayed in Star Wars with much left to  the imagination; the terror suggested was always magnified by the  imagination of the reader. When an interrogation droid hovered into  Princess Leia's cell in Episode 4 we were not present for whatever took  place. In Episode 5 we only see the very beginning of Han Solo's treatment  at the hand of Vader, a scream, and then a scene change.<br />Now we have the  Vong's &quot;Embrace Of Pain&quot; that is pure horror story not science  fiction. The level to which it is used stretches credibility. There is  nothing clever about it, it's just graphic. I lost track of the number of  beheadings and the ways they were described. The other offensive and  defensive organic weapons of the Vong continue to fascinate, but there  novelty is wearing thin. A new fighter on the side of the Republic is more  interesting this time around. And the best part is you will never guess who  leads the squadron.<br />Michael Stackpole continues as one of the best  writers in the Star Wars Universe. The story he shares here is very well  told, and strikes a balance between the times spent on Jedi Reflection, the  Senate Politics, and the action that always has been the heart of Star  Wars.<br />There are more bits of comment that suggest other changes are  coming. I am beginning to wonder if when this latest cycle of books has  ended will it coincide with the final movie?<br />George Lucas has said there  will be no 3rd trilogy from him and he will not allow someone else to  continue the story. These books may be the final trilogy, and they may  bring everything full circle. Just a thought.<br />I do have one personal hope  that someone will take a lightsaber to Borsk Fey'lya. I realize I may be  slipping to the darker side, but if there in an appropriate place for this  sentiment, it is within this series.<br />A very good read that all fans  should enjoy.will be no 3rd trilogy from him and he will not allow someone else to  continue the story. These books may be the final trilogy, and they may  bring everything full circle. Just a thought.<br />I do have one personal hope  that someone will take a lightsaber to Borsk Fey'lya. I realize I may be  slipping to the darker side, but if there in an appropriate place for this  sentiment, it is within this series.<br />A very good read that all fans  should enjoy.	2000-06-07
2439569:US	53047425	R1GSEP8DKLBFMX	0399144668	102470712	For the Love of Books	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Books that were/are important to the authors that we read.	I received this book as a gift; generally this method of acquisition all but ensures I will never read the work. In this particular case that generality was broken, and I was the beneficiary.<br />Mr. Ronald B. Shwartz  has collected the thoughts of 115 writers and received an answer to the  request, &quot;Identify those 3-6 books that have in some way influenced or  affected you most deeply...&quot;. The entertainment begins prior to the  first author's selection as Mr. Shwartz shares some responses to the idea  of the question itself.  Anna Quindlen &quot;This is a mean thing to ask  someone to do.&quot;<br />Kurt Vonnegut &quot;Anyone asking a writer a  question like yours should own a thumbscrew and a rack.&quot;<br />James  McBride &quot;If the literary world, or if anyone else in the world for  that matter, feels I'm smart enough to offer my two cents about anything,  we're all in deep doo-doo, but what the heck, count me in...&quot;<br />I  would imagine the collected responses would make for an excellent read of  their own. Fortunately the book leaps much further and deeper, it almost  pries into the very personal thoughts of these writers who all are  associated with excellence. Their work ranges from one to the other end of  whatever writing genre could be listed, and their answers will generally  surprise you. As these people are some of the literary legends of the 20th  and now the 21st Century I expected answers both lofty and impenetrable to  the average reader. I could not have been more in error. Yes there are  references to poetical works that I could not find in 10 years with the  same number of computers. But happily the book is very readable. And lest  you think it takes itself too seriously, I offer Christopher Buckley and  his opening to his answer,&quot;Well, if you're looking for recondite works  in, say, lesbian studies from the early seventeenth century, you're \\"___\\"  out of luck with me.&quot; I imagined Buckley The Elder wincing with that  bit of earthiness from his Son.<br />The books that made some wish to write or  at least were influential in their work will surely fascinate. It is the  only book of its kind I have read, but unless I come across another, this  sets the bar.t  bit of earthiness from his Son.<br />The books that made some wish to write or  at least were influential in their work will surely fascinate. It is the  only book of its kind I have read, but unless I come across another, this  sets the bar.	2000-06-06
2440053:US	53047425	ROWNCVUODF12C	0880641908	689496853	The Hermitage: The Biography of a Great Museum	Books	4	40	42	N	N	When excess can be a good thing for posterity.	The only reason the 5th star was not placed is that I do not believe it possible to put even the history of this building that is The Hermitage into a single volume. The centuries it has endured, the wars, the changes  in government, its continued presence today, is a remarkable tale prior to  a review of the Art it contains.<br />The Authoress Geraldine Norman has  produced a highly readable book that requires only an interest in the  subject to be enjoyed. Art History Majors may glean even more from what she  presents, but all others will enjoy it as a wonderful history of a  building, the persons who created it, and finally those who have filled it  to near bursting.<br />Before Catherine The Great could accumulate the work of  Masters on an almost unbelievable scale, Peter The Great provided the city  and she then began what was the largest museum until the Louvre expanded at  the close of the 20th Century. If and when Russia can finance the planned  expansion, The Hermitage will once again be the largest museum on  Earth.<br />The building has housed Art, served as a Hospital during WWI, and  housed upwards of 2,000 people in bomb shelters during WWII. Even though  Nationalized by The Bolsheviks after they left their mark on the building  by destroying whatever struck their fancy, the building and it's  collections were to endure even this group of cretins. World War Two would  also heavily damage the museum, which would be restored with astonishing  skill.<br />Whether you love Art, Russian History, or a combination of the two  this book is to be enjoyed. While it is the first full History of this  great monument I doubt it will be the last. What I also find fascinating  are those treasures that are starting to see the light of day, and more  that will, as the building now stands once again in Russia.<br />Highly  Recommended.	2000-06-06
2441154:US	53047425	RJXLV7CLBLHI3	031218087X	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	4	24	37	N	N	Jabba resembled a giant tadpole, he was a hairless spheroid.	I have read many of the other reviews for this book, and in none have I seen the humor that the Author places in his books mentioned. This is the second book of Dan Brown's that I have read and everything I enjoy about  his writing was present in this work and was even more in evidence in his  second &quot;Angels And Demons&quot;.<br />It is true this book does not have  the same energy level for the first third of the story. I had less of  problem with this, as I know little about cryptography. It may seem  incongruous to read about Caesar in the midst of a tale of the NSA, but I  found it interesting as well as the type of detail that adds credibility to  the book because of the level of research. In addition once the pace  quickens the Author maintains it to the end. Too many of the books I read  seem to hurry to a conclusion. It's almost as if the Authors after years of  work and dozens of drafts just want to be finished. Dan Brown keeps the  tension high, and does so with credibility, not some contrived nonsense  that just drags the reader along with false partial endings.<br />The book  only suffers by comparison when you read &quot;Angels And Demons&quot;  first as I did. But Authors that fail on their second attempt are far more  numerous than those who not only maintain the level of their work, but also  take the whole reading experience a step up. This failing is called  &quot;the sophomore jinx&quot;. This Author does not suffer from that  malady, and with his next work not only will the &quot;third time be a  charm&quot;, rather I think it will be the next in a series that will get  ever more intricate and clever.<br />There were those who felt the ultimate  ending was simple, and while I do agree the final solution was not  &quot;Fermat's Enigma&quot;, I think being disappointed in the ending is  wrong. It is true the very final answer is simple, the answers to many  great enigmas are, but the series of partial solutions that allow steps  toward the final answer when considered as a whole are anything but  simple.<br />There are a number of Authors who nailed the best-seller lists  their first time out. I read about their recent books, and more often than  not the loyal readers become more and more disappointed as new books are  written. They express the frustration that the books become a formula. To  date Dan Brown has not done this. I believe his books will continue to gain  the recognition they deserve, and his admirers will continue to be pleased  many many books into the future.al answer when considered as a whole are anything but  simple.<br />There are a number of Authors who nailed the best-seller lists  their first time out. I read about their recent books, and more often than  not the loyal readers become more and more disappointed as new books are  written. They express the frustration that the books become a formula. To  date Dan Brown has not done this. I believe his books will continue to gain  the recognition they deserve, and his admirers will continue to be pleased  many many books into the future.	2000-06-05
2442466:US	53047425	R2OIDQWPUCN870	0385500319	295006935	Baltimore's Mansion	Books	4	7	8	N	N	&quot;You could go only so long remaining righteous in defeat...&quot;	While true the period of time of &quot;remaining righteous&quot; may be finite, it needn't be necessarily short. In the case of the Johnston Family the third of that generation deals with the consequences to this day.  &quot;Baltimore's Mansion&quot; is both true Family History together with  the autobiographical experience of the Author. He may not have witnessed  all he memorializes, but the feeling you get while reading is that if there  is a line between the two it is seamless. And that this is true is due to  the Author's insight into the memories of others he experiences as opposed  to the memories that are his own.<br />The prose of this book is rich it is  thick and dense. I intend that comment in only the most positive manner.  There is nothing extraneous as you read, every sentence is important; this  book is as long as it needs to be, no more or no less. I always had the  impression the Author chose each word or phrase he wrote carefully and with  purpose. The writing needs no embellishment it is precise and honest.<br />The  book is about change, about change that is often not wanted, about progress  that is anything but, rather it is a series of events that strips away a  people's identity, the ground their homes are built upon, the jobs they  have known for generations, and ultimately the Families themselves.<br />The  damage and dislocation that is suffered that is external is magnified by  secrets and thought kept hidden for decades that if shared would have  changed the lives of these Families. The book is about regret, missed  opportunities, and an unwillingness to accept change that goes beyond  simply sad to truly painful and destructive.<br />I recently read &quot;No  Great Mischief&quot; and while no 2 Authors are alike, I believe if you  have read and enjoyed either you will enjoy them both.<br />Whether describing  an event that will change the course of a people, or of a young man  sweeping away the imprints of horseshoes that do not bear his Father's mark  (a Rose), the Author shows with great clarity the similarities and the  futility of going against the tide.<br />As to those who were on the  &quot;Winning&quot; side as always the Author states it best, &quot;We won,  we won and nothing you can say can change that fact, and nothing makes  victory sweeter than the enduring bitterness of men like you.&quot; The man  being referred to here is the Author's Father.<br />Wonderful book.s Father's mark  (a Rose), the Author shows with great clarity the similarities and the  futility of going against the tide.<br />As to those who were on the  &quot;Winning&quot; side as always the Author states it best, &quot;We won,  we won and nothing you can say can change that fact, and nothing makes  victory sweeter than the enduring bitterness of men like you.&quot; The man  being referred to here is the Author's Father.<br />Wonderful book.	2000-06-05
2442669:US	53047425	R6PR1M2NY10P3	0679426264	601485120	N. C. Wyeth: A Biography	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Even for those who have no idea who the Wyeth family is.	I don't know if there is another Family that has continuously contributed to the world of art, and done so with such skill, as the 5 generations of Wyeths whose story is told in this work.<br />The title of my review may seem  a bit odd but I believe those who read this book will find it appropriate.  I read this book when it originally was published and then recently read it  again. You need not be anything more than someone who loves to read to  enjoy this book. While I am a great admirer of Mr. Andrew Wyeth's work and  to a lesser extent other members of the Wyeth Family, I have no Art History  education. The beauty of this work is that it is an incredible story on  it's own, that additionally the story is true with 2 Wyeth Family members  still painting, only enhances the reading. The fact this is not fiction  makes the story all the more remarkable.<br />If you have already read about  Mr. Andrew Wyeth's work you certainly will gain a great deal of insight as  to why he may view his art as he does. Another wonderful book that focuses  on Mr. Andrew Wyeth is by Richard Merryman, &quot;Andrew Wyeth A Secret  Life&quot;. It often seems that great artists in a range of artistic fields  seem to have more than their share of drama in their lives. This is  certainly the case with this 5 generational span of the Wyeths. There is  also a great deal of tragedy and sadness.<br />Whether or not you are aware of  or enjoy the work of The Wyeth Clan, they have and will continue to remain  of great importance to Art History. Ranging from the illustrations by N.C  Wyeth of dozens of books that are known to us all, to some of the most  recognized images in the world as is the case with Andrew Wyeth's  &quot;Christina's World&quot; from 1948, chances are you do know of the  Wyeths.<br />The story most don't know is of the woman who is in the mentioned  painting, her lifetime, and the stories and paintings that resulted from  the house that she is looking towards in the painting. Not all of what you  will learn is comfortable, some is sad; some behavior from members of the  Family is eccentric to say the least.<br />What you will experience is a  sweeping story that continues to this day. If an endorsement by an  internationally acclaimed Artist would help, read what Mr. Barry Moser had  to say about this book. And then go look at the book he was illustrating,  the work he set aside to read this story. I cannot think of a more reliable  recommendation.<br />Know the Family, know the work, or read as a novel. You  will not de disappointed.Not all of what you  will learn is comfortable, some is sad; some behavior from members of the  Family is eccentric to say the least.<br />What you will experience is a  sweeping story that continues to this day. If an endorsement by an  internationally acclaimed Artist would help, read what Mr. Barry Moser had  to say about this book. And then go look at the book he was illustrating,  the work he set aside to read this story. I cannot think of a more reliable  recommendation.<br />Know the Family, know the work, or read as a novel. You  will not de disappointed.	2000-06-05
2449713:US	53047425	R1PVVYUMCCNIML	0385492936	214439381	The Book of Honor: Covert Lives & Classified Deaths at the CIA	Books	5	63	71	N	N	The words inscribed in the lobby are cruel fiction.	The actual quote &quot;and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free&quot;, is chiseled in stone and stands across from an artificial star constellation representing those who died in service to  this Country. The perfectly aligned stars are as unlike the sky's  night-lights as the words regarding truth apply to the Agency on whose  walls they are inscribed. Unlike real stars 38 of 71 of these are unnamed,  they rise above a book that documents in writing the names of only 33 who  have fallen.<br />This book is worthy of high praise, for the Author who  brings us the story, the Families that told of their experience in spite of  warnings not to, and the men and women who were the initial victims in  these events. I use the qualifier as long after they had died serving this  Country their Family and Friends often continued to suffer for decades.<br />I  don't believe that secrecy in protection of our well-being and our goals as  a Country are by definition wrong nor are they in dispute in this book.  What is at issue is what happens when a select group become the arbiters of  what they believe is in the best interest of all, what they would like the  truth to be. What is so sad and so angering is that these stories were not  about the shading of the truth on some sort of grayscale rather the  difference between the truth and lies, misinformation, what have you, that  were at times were so absurd that only those who propagated them thought  they would be believed.<br />This book is a history lesson told by sharing the  stories of men and women of the CIA and the Families they were apart of as  Fathers, Mothers, Sisters, Sons, etc. It also is a series of decisions and  policies maintained to the very present that can only be thought of as  cruel in light of the facts that are known.<br />This is a sobering book, it  is at times terribly sad, and at others will cause you to rage against what  was done to these families. The men and women who worked for the CIA knew  they would ask much of their Families, the CIA asked even more of the same  people. I do not believe any of those who died or those who cared for them  believed they would be subject to arbitrary neglect and abuse when their  lives ended serving their Country.<br />This is not a silly spy book. This is  a book that confronts the reader with stories of men left to rot in prisons  for the majority of their lives over semantics. This is about using secrecy  as an excuse for avoiding the need to deal with problems, to avoid  admitting error.<br />Would you believe that 30 or 40 or more years is not  long enough to stop the fiction that surrounded the deaths of these people?  Even after the truth came about the denials of reality continued to the  point that stretches the imagination.<br />The first obligation of any agency  is to the people it serves. Within reasonable parameters those who take  high-risk covert assignments know that they and those that survive them  will suffer unusual hardship. I do not believe they ever thought that  hardship would extend to the level of unjustified cruelty as it repeatedly  did for these Families.<br />A debt is owed to those who are represented by  stars etched in marble, to the Families that were left behind, and to the  Author for bringing this book to the public's attention.<br />Unconditionally  highly recommended!the CIA knew  they would ask much of their Families, the CIA asked even more of the same  people. I do not believe any of those who died or those who cared for them  believed they would be subject to arbitrary neglect and abuse when their  lives ended serving their Country.<br />This is not a silly spy book. This is  a book that confronts the reader with stories of men left to rot in prisons  for the majority of their lives over semantics. This is about using secrecy  as an excuse for avoiding the need to deal with problems, to avoid  admitting error.<br />Would you believe that 30 or 40 or more years is not  long enough to stop the fiction that surrounded the deaths of these people?  Even after the truth came about the denials of reality continued to the  point that stretches the imagination.<br />The first obligation of any agency  is to the people it serves. Within reasonable parameters those who take  high-risk covert assignments know that they and those that survive them  will suffer unusual hardship. I do not believe they ever thought that  hardship would extend to the level of unjustified cruelty as it repeatedly  did for these Families.<br />A debt is owed to those who are represented by  stars etched in marble, to the Families that were left behind, and to the  Author for bringing this book to the public's attention.<br />Unconditionally  highly recommended!	2000-06-01
2450736:US	53047425	R31WO3XPXRELPQ	0786707046	599820512	Churchill: Wanted Dead or Alive	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Whether a long time admirer or new fan, the book works.	I am a great admirer of Sir Winston Spencer Churchill, and so being I read nearly every book that is published. As I write this Mr. Churchill was on the cover of one of our National Magazines last week, and the title was  &quot;The Last Hero&quot;. A man who is completing another biography of Mr.  Churchill's life wrote the story inside.<br />A book by his Granddaughter  Celia Sandys could be easily dismissed as a biased treatment, a work  lacking objectivity. I believe The Authoress did a remarkable job of adding  to the Historical Record without being a revisionist in her Grandfather's  favor or to his detriment.<br />I have read Churchill's own accounts of the  adventures contained in this book, and many other books written about this  amazing story and I still would recommend it be added to any existing  collection of Churchill books.<br />Mrs. Sandys manages to bring to light new  bits of information that at times reinforce the contemporary accounts, and  at other moments confirm what might have been an Historical Embellishment  passed down through the years. She portrays her Grandfather with candor,  and shares the information she collected while reconstructing herself the  trip that her Grandfather made so many years ago.<br />Sir Winston Spencer  Churchill M.P. has already taken his place in History. He was a man who  seemed to know what destiny held for him, and also what History would say.  He once said, &quot;I know how History will remember me, as I shall write  it.&quot; He once described the human race in the following terms, &quot;We  are all worms, but I believe I am a glow worm.&quot;<br />A well written,  balanced account of a small part of a life that was full of momentous  moments. Mr. Churchill is unique as he is not just part of our History, he  is History. That he is still quoted almost daily, new books continue to be  written, and a College is to be built confirm this is true.<br />When  confronted with &quot;if you were my Husband I would put poison in your  soup&quot;, the retort, &quot;if you were my wife I would eat it.&quot; Oh  to be at that dinner.<br />Thank you Mrs. Sandys.t poison in your  soup&quot;, the retort, &quot;if you were my wife I would eat it.&quot; Oh  to be at that dinner.<br />Thank you Mrs. Sandys.	2000-05-31
2451649:US	53047425	R19EB868U704Z	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	39	52	N	N	&quot;From seminary to corrections academy: a sign of the times&quot;	The Author Ted Conover is literally referring to the building where he attended school to become a Corrections Officer, and the History of the building. It was here he was to be schooled and then sent to one of the  more intense maximum-security prisons, Sing Sing. After a whole 7 weeks of  training he then entered a facility where he worked amongst the inmates,  where he carried a baton as a means of offense or defense. This was his  protection at hand while 40 or 50 or over 100 to 1 outnumbered him. Many of  these inmates were serving life sentences and had nothing to lose by  further illegal action within the prison.<br />This book has already been  reviewed by a Corrections Officer at Sing Sing, so any further comment is  just opinion, if that Officer's endorsement does not validate the book what  will. These men and women are Correction Officers not guards. Whether or  not a given reviewer feels this is an issue of semantics is irrelevant.  These men and women deserve our respect and gratitude for entering an  environment that most would not step into for a moment much less a  career.<br />The book is a fascinating read for it dispels myths and reveals  realities of prison life that are even worse. The statistics associated  with our prison systems are horrendous, they are a National shame; they are  a testimony to quick-fix politics from knee-jerk politicians. Putting all  other statistics aside this Country has under lock and key over 2 million  citizens, or about 1 person in 180. That figure keeps us in a neck and neck  rate for the highest percentage of our citizens that are interred of any  other Country on the planet. This gives us the dubious distinction of  having replaced former apartheid South Africa which was once number  1.<br />Mr. Conover is remarkable in so much as he spent a year of his life as  a Corrections Officer so as to be able to write properly about it. He is  brutally candid about what he saw, how it affected him and his family, and  shares the reality that is our prison system.<br />He presents what the facts  are about prisons, what they cost, the rate at which they are being built,  and why the population of those prisons is soaring while violent crime is  down 20%. Much is due to mandatory sentencing for drug offenders.  California must build one prison per year for the foreseeable future and  that will still not keep up with the cells required for new  prisoners.<br />There are all manner of sound bite answers to crime, Capital  Punishment, 3 strikes are you are out/in for life, and on and on.  Executions may satisfy some, and certainly may bring closure to he friends  and family of the victims, it does not defer crime.<br />The thought of  Capital Punishment did not stop John Taylor 36, and Craig Godineaux 30 of  having employees at Wendy's last week in Queens get on their knees in a  freezer, and then execute them with a bullet in the back of their heads.  Nor do I think these 2 individuals were terribly concerned with the 600+  laws we have that regulate guns.<br />This book opens the prison for you too  see what reality is; it poses many questions just by the statements that  are made. I do not think it was Mr. Conover's responsibility to then reform  the prison system. Putting his life at risk for a year so that we could  &quot;experience&quot; what life inside Sing Sing is about is more than any  other individual I can think of has done.<br />The persons that have confessed  to the Wendy's executions have no place on this planet. They are not  youths; they are not worth a moment of rehabilitation. They are due the  same consideration they gave their victims. They and the crimes they  committed should not be what are used to determine prison policy. These two  creatures are not the typical criminals. But the press and the public love  these stories, and the opportunistic political beneficiaries will jump into  the parade and build more prisons, advocate more mandatory sentencing, and  will accomplish nothing.<br />This work by Mr. Conover is important. It  demonstrates that the prison system we have makes about as much sense as  some of the crimes committed by the individuals that inhabit these  buildings. The latest housing is a Super-Max Facility that was called a  recipe for creating &quot;junk-yard dogs&quot; by one Corrections  Official.<br />Review the money we as taxpayers spend, and then decide what  that money accomplishes. Or read one prisoner's take on how the money  planned for prisons for the next 10-15 years is really an admission of  failure. An admission that the 3 and 4 year old children of today that are  at risk through no choice of their own are having their cells made ready.  Think about what that money might do to prevent some of today's kids from  ever seeing a prison cell.<br />This is not a liberal/conservative topic. This  is about whether for profit jails make sense. This is about a system that  does not work for those interred, nor the public that wants to be  protected. This is about reality and what needs to be changed. So as  Politicians campaign about getting tougher on handguns ask them how many  more laws in addition to the 600+ we have. Ask them what it is we  accomplish with our present system of prisons. Also ask why 70-80% of the  population of Sing Sing is black.<br />I guess they didn't have Heisman  Trophies.ll accomplish nothing.<br />This work by Mr. Conover is important. It  demonstrates that the prison system we have makes about as much sense as  some of the crimes committed by the individuals that inhabit these  buildings. The latest housing is a Super-Max Facility that was called a  recipe for creating &quot;junk-yard dogs&quot; by one Corrections  Official.<br />Review the money we as taxpayers spend, and then decide what  that money accomplishes. Or read one prisoner's take on how the money  planned for prisons for the next 10-15 years is really an admission of  failure. An admission that the 3 and 4 year old children of today that are  at risk through no choice of their own are having their cells made ready.  Think about what that money might do to prevent some of today's kids from  ever seeing a prison cell.<br />This is not a liberal/conservative topic. This  is about whether for profit jails make sense. This is about a system that  does not work for those interred, nor the public that wants to be  protected. This is about reality and what needs to be changed. So as  Politicians campaign about getting tougher on handguns ask them how many  more laws in addition to the 600+ we have. Ask them what it is we  accomplish with our present system of prisons. Also ask why 70-80% of the  population of Sing Sing is black.<br />I guess they didn't have Heisman  Trophies.	2000-05-31
2453086:US	53047425	RFLX2X7E9RZ3P	1559705124	551046520	Under the Eye of the Clock	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Because Of &quot;The Banyan Tree&quot;	I found my way to this book after I had read &quot;The Banyan Tree&quot; by Christopher Nolan. This was a book that I read and reviewed back in February, and ever since I have been mystified why the book never seemed to  gain the wide acceptance of readers. All of the reviews that have been  posted by readers for &quot;The Banyan Tree&quot; have been 5 star reviews,  and the same is the case for &quot;Under The Eye Of The Clock&quot;.<br />If  you read you understand how difficult it is to write anything, much less a  full book, and then have it selected for and win a prestigious award. In  the case of the book I review now it was the 1987 Whitbred Award that was  awarded to Mr. Nolan. All very impressive, but that's just the  start.<br />This is an autobiography written by a very young man who next  wrote the book &quot;The Banyan Tree&quot; and would take 12 years to do  so. This is a painfully candid, but uplifting book about a man with the  support of a wonderful Family overcomes extreme realities that are his life  to become an Author of international renown.<br />Mr. Nolan cannot speak, he  can barely move at all. He types with what he calls his &quot;Unicorn  Stick&quot; that he wears on his head, and even then his head must be  supported while he works.<br />An Autobiography is a courageous work if  honestly presented. When you add Mr. Nolan's additional challenges he faces  as a writer, and as a person living with his physical issues it becomes an  extraordinary autobiographical book.<br />I hope more readers find Mr. Nolan,  he is a unique writer of immense talent, and if you pass by his work you  deprive yourself of great literature.	2000-05-30
2453408:US	53047425	R37XZ5MLN72M6D	0671027352	141370518	Angels & Demons (Robert Langdon)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Galileo, Milton, Bernini, Raphael, Cecil Rhodes, George Bush	And the list of names above is just a sample of historical figures that play a part in this tale that moves almost as quickly as the corporate plane from CERN.<br />When I first saw the book and the clever cover I thought  it was a gimmick, and generally books with a hologram or in this case an  ambigram or other device to get your attention I tend to find  disappointing. In this case that feeling could not be further from the  truth.<br />If you really enjoy reading a book that is a meticulously  assembled puzzle, or perhaps an enigma that is at once high-tech and 500  years old, this book is for you. If you enjoy the misdirection that a  Charles Palliser novel offers you will enjoy this. As I read this Author  for the first time I was reminded of the first Robert Ludlum book I read  &quot;The Matarese Circle&quot;. And like that reading experience I now  will go back and read the Author's previous work &quot;Digital  Fortress.&quot;<br />Religion versus Science, Galileo versus The Vatican, or  perhaps The Illuminati versus Catholicism, or is it religion? Interested in  how you can learn the truth of the tale? How about your wallet, have a  dollar bill?, good place to start. A book on Bernini's work will help; one  of the main characters in the book needed one. Perhaps a map of Rome, or of  the smallest Country in the world, actually you need none of these as the  Author provides all you could want. A dollar bill as a bookmark will add to  the fun.<br />This is an extremely well researched work that relies on facts,  turns its back on cheap literary sleight of hand, and will deliver to the  reader a great experience. Do you know from where the word Assassin is  derived from? I do, and I have seen other Authors botch this, Mr. Brown  gets it correct. There are other details like that that I was familiar with  and he nailed them all accurately. This inspires confidence as a reader  when he introduces a topic you are unfamiliar with. I chose to check on  several of those, and again the information in the story was dead on  accurate.<br />I normally don't check the details of a book this closely, as  this book was suggested to me I felt I needed to do so in light of how  highly I was to rate the work. I had no obligation to read or comment upon  the work.<br />If you enjoy a great literary ride for pure pleasure think of  the better books by Ludlum, Clancy, Dale Brown, Forsythe, LeCarre, and  their peers in the genre and you will enjoy this book.<br />And when the book  is finished the experience can and should be extended. The book also has an  associated website. I won't say what is there, as it will spoil the book.  However when reviewed after the reading is complete it makes the whole  &quot;Angels And Demons&quot; experience even better. Doubt a detail in the  book; the site will probably lay it to rest. But again, book first, site  second. I am sure others will copy this bundling of the web with a book, I  only hope it as well done as in this case.<br />I recommend the book without  reservation. As I said &quot;Digital Fortress&quot; has been added to my  reading list.<br />Very well done, enjoy!ose, and again the information in the story was dead on  accurate.<br />I normally don't check the details of a book this closely, as  this book was suggested to me I felt I needed to do so in light of how  highly I was to rate the work. I had no obligation to read or comment upon  the work.<br />If you enjoy a great literary ride for pure pleasure think of  the better books by Ludlum, Clancy, Dale Brown, Forsythe, LeCarre, and  their peers in the genre and you will enjoy this book.<br />And when the book  is finished the experience can and should be extended. The book also has an  associated website. I won't say what is there, as it will spoil the book.  However when reviewed after the reading is complete it makes the whole  &quot;Angels And Demons&quot; experience even better. Doubt a detail in the  book; the site will probably lay it to rest. But again, book first, site  second. I am sure others will copy this bundling of the web with a book, I  only hope it as well done as in this case.<br />I recommend the book without  reservation. As I said &quot;Digital Fortress&quot; has been added to my  reading list.<br />Very well done, enjoy!	2000-05-30
2461117:US	53047425	RRDH6TJ6CEYLB	0393049701	814842893	No Great Mischief	Books	5	61	70	N	N	&quot;Chointhe, lochran aigh nam bochd.&quot;	When more familiar sounds are heard, the above becomes, &quot;Look, the lamp of the poor.&quot; The lamp is the moon and the reference encompasses what those may do when the moon is bright that otherwise would require the  means they do not have.<br />This is a beautifully written story of the  MacDonald Clan that spans nearly three centuries in length. How Mr.  Alistair Macleod conveys this epoch of this Family in such a relatively  short work (283 pages) is enigmatic. The Author accomplishes this in part I  believe by using not only the words he needs, but the most appropriate as  well. The reading is so rewarding because the Author gives you so much to  absorb, to ponder, and at times to puzzle over.<br />Prior to this work Mr.  Macleod published two books of short stories that I have not read. Another  Author stated, &quot;He is one of the great undiscovered writers of our  time.&quot; A heady endorsement, but one I cannot argue with. Other  reviewers have made reference to some literary talents whose work has  become timeless and by extension classic. I agree without  reservation.<br />This book joins some others that never seem to receive the  public acclaim they are due. I thought of &quot;The Banyan Tree&quot;, and  &quot;Life Is So Good&quot;, and also &quot;No News At Throat Lake&quot;.  It may be that these books don't have a publicity machine behind them, and  if that is the case it truly is a loss to readers.<br />One of the wise Elders  in the story says.&quot; Music is the lubricant of the poor. All over the  world. In all the different languages.&quot; Books like these and the  people who write them provide the same comfort, encouragement, and  incentive for readers to go on reading when there seems to be less books of  this caliber offered.<br />False muses, the French Ships that never came, and  the body that moves inland while the heart was left at the sea. This is a  book that will move and satisfy, and keep looking for the next great Author  you have yet to find.<br />Absolutely outstanding! Read it!have yet to find.<br />Absolutely outstanding! Read it!	2000-05-25
2461589:US	53047425	R2MHKCFTJKC7GN	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	4	29	32	N	N	&quot;I hope I not interrupt important something&quot;	That comment is made by a European Chef who wishes to extend his best wishes to The Reverend Bishop Watson the book's main character. The response comes from a dear friend of the Bishop while they are speaking of  many serious issues, some heinous. The Bishop's friend responds, &quot;We  were talking about sex, specifically about getting the Bishop laid&quot;. I  suppose this type of humor is possible in the circumstances portrayed, only  by men who have experienced hell on earth together. Both men were Prisoners  Of War interned in a hell created by their Japanese captors. That this  passage in the book works, and does so brilliantly, is a credit to the  Author Mr. Jim Lehrer.<br />This is a story that contains horrible historical  truths and the impact they can have on the victims. Issues of revenge and  retribution, divine and personal forgiveness, a man's loyalty to both the  Bishop's office he has held, and the loyalty to and truth about himself he  must face.<br />This is not a long work, but I sat up until 3:30 this morning  so I could finish it in one sitting. It was very much worth the lost sleep.  This is not an easy book to read, and the issues it addresses are not  resolved to this day. The dilemmas, moral and otherwise are faced by  individuals, their sons, and as always the government which does not always  make the best choice, just the best political decision.<br />Mr. Lehrer is  well known on both television, and as a writer. He is a veteran, which  brings authenticity to the story, which is enforced by his Brother who is a  Minister who helped with the contents.<br />A disturbing read, but one that is  very much worth your time.	2000-05-24
2462852:US	53047425	R2DABJNGT2G12I	0380978490	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, And The Man Who Won The War	Books	5	111	118	N	N	&quot;Who knew about who doesn't matter.&quot; General Tibbets	That one comment has been a common thread through all of the books I have read regarding the men and women involved in World War II. The General was chastising the Author for suggesting that his Father was less important as  a Major in the war than General Tibbets. This was not the first lesson that  would be taught, and I thought it was great the Author included so many  instances when the General took him to task. It was always instructive and  formed a series of reference points for the Author that taught him more  than he ever expected to learn about his own Father.<br />The Enola Gay, her  crew, and the bomb she dropped remain for some/many an issue left  unresolved. Fifty years allows for a great deal of second-guessing and  revisionist history. If after reading this book the decision to drop the  bomb on Hiroshima is still questionable to you, read &quot;Flags Of Our  Fathers&quot;. If after you absorb the lives that Iwo Jima, a tiny island  consumed I do not believe there is a credible argument that the dropping of  the first Atom Bomb was anything other than correct. Not conditionally  correct, but absolutely correct for the United States and Japan.<br />There is  a conversation in the book between General Tibbets and Shoji Tabuchi. Mr.  Tabuchi was carried by his Mother on her back, while she pushed his Brother  in a carriage away from their home that was near Hiroshima after the  bombing. Mr. Tabuchi's Father said this about the Bombing, &quot;had the  war continued all would have died, the end of the war spared the lives of  men women and children all over Japan&quot;.<br />Why is it The Smithsonian  Air And Space Museum had so much trouble a few years ago when presenting  what had happened during World War II. I went back and checked some of the  comments they proposed to display with the plane. I came to the conclusion  those involved were either pathetically ignorant, historical revisionists,  or simply dullards. General Tibbets responded to the Author as follows when  asked about those who make disparaging comments about him, his crew, or the  mission, &quot;Those people never had their balls on that cold, hard  anvil,&quot; he said. &quot;They can say anything they want.&quot; I think  that makes the point clear enough even for a museum director.<br />You will  meet 2 men who were part of the crew on The Enola Gay, Major Dutch Van Kirk  who was the Navigator and, Colonel Tom Ferebee the Bombardier. You will  read of the General's meeting with Mitsuo Fuchida the man who led the air  attack on Pearl Harbor. He was a guest at the General's home.<br />&quot;Talk  about it? That would be like talking about the air we breathed.&quot; This  was the General's response when asked why he and his generation did not  talk about patriotism and their affection for their Country. He continued,  &quot;We grew up knowing that it was expected of us-to love this Country  and to treat it with loyalty and respect.&quot;<br />The General did a great  service for the Author Mr. Bob Greene. The Author in turn shares his  experience, which we all can benefit from. We in this instance means those  of us who were not there, we who have never fired a shot in anger, been  shot at, or placed our lives at risk, or into the hands of another. We, the  group that benefited from those that have been called &quot;The Greatest  Generation&quot; by Tom Brokaw.<br />My thanks go to all the men and women who  have ever served this Country, there are 2 men in particular I wish to  thank, my Father who at 17 joined the Navy in 1943 and served as a Petty  Officer First Class, and my Father in law, Wilfred Ecklin who left the Air  Force after a career as a pilot and with the rank of Major, he is now  deceased.<br />So what are you and your Family doing this Monday May 29, 2000?r as follows when  asked about those who make disparaging comments about him, his crew, or the  mission, &quot;Those people never had their balls on that cold, hard  anvil,&quot; he said. &quot;They can say anything they want.&quot; I think  that makes the point clear enough even for a museum director.<br />You will  meet 2 men who were part of the crew on The Enola Gay, Major Dutch Van Kirk  who was the Navigator and, Colonel Tom Ferebee the Bombardier. You will  read of the General's meeting with Mitsuo Fuchida the man who led the air  attack on Pearl Harbor. He was a guest at the General's home.<br />&quot;Talk  about it? That would be like talking about the air we breathed.&quot; This  was the General's response when asked why he and his generation did not  talk about patriotism and their affection for their Country. He continued,  &quot;We grew up knowing that it was expected of us-to love this Country  and to treat it with loyalty and respect.&quot;<br />The General did a great  service for the Author Mr. Bob Greene. The Author in turn shares his  experience, which we all can benefit from. We in this instance means those  of us who were not there, we who have never fired a shot in anger, been  shot at, or placed our lives at risk, or into the hands of another. We, the  group that benefited from those that have been called &quot;The Greatest  Generation&quot; by Tom Brokaw.<br />My thanks go to all the men and women who  have ever served this Country, there are 2 men in particular I wish to  thank, my Father who at 17 joined the Navy in 1943 and served as a Petty  Officer First Class, and my Father in law, Wilfred Ecklin who left the Air  Force after a career as a pilot and with the rank of Major, he is now  deceased.<br />So what are you and your Family doing this Monday May 29, 2000?	2000-05-24
2465069:US	53047425	R2ZTA9JF56HW8G	0684837811	77827447	To Kill The Pope: An Ecclesiastical Thriller (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	5	49	55	N	N	I enjoyed the book, whether you do will depend on........	whether or not you are willing to go outside the book for information. Only scholars will have the knowledge to follow the precise, abundant and very dense historical detail that is the alleged cause of the attempt on  the life of the Pope.<br />Had I confined myself to the contents of this book  I would perhaps be writing a one or possibly two star review. Even now I  could write my thoughts from a solitary star, or a five star quincunx. If  the last word irritates this book may not be to your liking.<br />What is this  book, fiction, historically based fiction, or the truth as far as it is  possible to relate today. From the Afterword, &quot;To Kill The Pope&quot;  is a work of fiction. And then later on the same page, &quot;The fictional  form was adopted for &quot;To Kill The Pope&quot; in order to honor  commitments of discretion to my principal sources&quot;.<br />Mr. Tad Szulc is  eminently qualified to write on the topic of the attempt on the life of  Pope John Paul II. He also is clearly a man who has an extensive historical  grasp of the Catholic Church in it's present, ancient, and all of its forms  contained therein.<br />As I reached the halfway point I was ready to put this  aside for when I had nothing else on my reading list. Luckily the Internet  intervened and with a bit of research the book came into good focus, and  would only improve with more effort. I have some website addresses that I  will be happy to share if the reader is interested. These sites allowed the  identification of some individuals, living and dead, from the information  the Author provided, as well as some understanding of the Histories and  facts that you will be buried in if they have no familiarity to you.<br />A  sampling of references; Council of Ephesus in 449AD, 16th Century Council  of Trent, affirmation of Trent by St. Pius X in 1903, Vatican II, which  amongst other actions did away with the Latin Tridentine Mass, as well as  the direction the Priest faces when Celebrating the service.<br />You will go  back to the Crusades, read debates pertaining to an &quot;ius bellum&quot;  &quot;just war&quot;, the Commandment of not murdering as opposed to not  killing. The difference is as important as the latter version is wrong.  Schisms and heresies, and the &quot;integrists&quot; that populate them,  Cathars, Waldenses heretics, The Messalians of Armenia, Priscillians in 4th  century Spain, Paulicians, Bogomils, and even Joan Of Arc are brought to  bear on the reader.<br />This is a 317-page book that could have run to 1,000  pages. Your enjoyment of it will be directly related to the knowledge you  bring with you, or search for along the way. There is material that will  give offense to some Catholics, and Natives of at least one Country. The  concept of &quot;Comparative Fundamentalisms&quot; can be taken lightly, or  seriously, and that will determine who is taken aback by the ideas it  contains.<br />This is a great piece of work. It is NOT a casual read, it is  NOT light Historical Fiction of which there is much available, some of it  excellent, some of it is wretched.<br />To get enough from this book to really  enjoy what the Author has crafted requires information you already have, or  are willing to hunt down. This book made me work, and I felt well rewarded.  Mr. Szulc has displayed dozens of topics and historical figures that I look  forward to reading more about.<br />If you give the Author his due by  expending extra time on this work you will be pleased that you did. This is  not lightweight, this is not mediocrity, it is what you make of it.<br />I  heartily recommend you enter headfirst!ating the service.<br />You will go  back to the Crusades, read debates pertaining to an &quot;ius bellum&quot;  &quot;just war&quot;, the Commandment of not murdering as opposed to not  killing. The difference is as important as the latter version is wrong.  Schisms and heresies, and the &quot;integrists&quot; that populate them,  Cathars, Waldenses heretics, The Messalians of Armenia, Priscillians in 4th  century Spain, Paulicians, Bogomils, and even Joan Of Arc are brought to  bear on the reader.<br />This is a 317-page book that could have run to 1,000  pages. Your enjoyment of it will be directly related to the knowledge you  bring with you, or search for along the way. There is material that will  give offense to some Catholics, and Natives of at least one Country. The  concept of &quot;Comparative Fundamentalisms&quot; can be taken lightly, or  seriously, and that will determine who is taken aback by the ideas it  contains.<br />This is a great piece of work. It is NOT a casual read, it is  NOT light Historical Fiction of which there is much available, some of it  excellent, some of it is wretched.<br />To get enough from this book to really  enjoy what the Author has crafted requires information you already have, or  are willing to hunt down. This book made me work, and I felt well rewarded.  Mr. Szulc has displayed dozens of topics and historical figures that I look  forward to reading more about.<br />If you give the Author his due by  expending extra time on this work you will be pleased that you did. This is  not lightweight, this is not mediocrity, it is what you make of it.<br />I  heartily recommend you enter headfirst!	2000-05-23
2466152:US	53047425	RSGR2G8KURXME	0761525513	378284944	Let Us Talk of Many Things : The Collected Speeches with New Commentary by the Author	Books	5	39	43	N	N	If Mr. Buckley will allow, I will take the role of the Ant.	I am a great admirer of Mr. Buckley, which hardly distinguishes me, as those who admire him even though it may pain them to do so are legion. In deference to Mr. Buckley's specificity of language I use legion as defined  by Oxford as found within definition number 3.<br />You have only to look at  those people who admire and respect him to understand that his thoughts and  beliefs go well beyond the moniker of &quot;Conservative&quot;. That this  is the case is a tribute to his mind, to him as a person, and to the body  of written work he has produced and which he continues to expand.<br />He is  an accomplished novelist, he can speak as an equal on Constitutional Law  when addressing a gathering of judges, and he shared a deeply personal book  on his faith in God. His range is not limited to that of an Author, he also  is an Orator of Historic talent and near limitless range. As a Debater I  always felt those who stepped up to cross swords with him to be fools,  willing sacrifices, or both. Or perhaps they picked up the gauntlet so they  could say that they did, that they too were a victim of his wit, his  intellect, his passion, and his exacting logic of his beliefs.<br />This book  covers 50 years of his public speaking and is remarkable for a plenitude of  reasons. You will be struck by the consistency that is this man. He knew  what he believed in while at Yale, and those beliefs and values are the  same to this day. Were we all so consistent, so confident, were our elected  leaders even aware of the concept.<br />His facility with the spoken and  written word is to be marveled at not derided. His remarks or ripostes are  sometimes brutal, but they are forged from belief not hurled as slander.  His humor is as brilliant as it is sometimes oh so subtle, and if you  challenge, and are not sufficiently armed, you and your position will find  company with many other pretenders to his level of thought.<br />At times he  was gentle, when asked &quot;Why did we purchase Louisiana, when we got all  the other States free? He explained, &quot;that Louisiana was owned by two  women, Louise and Anna Wilmot, and that they sold it to General Winfield  Scott, provided he name it after them. This was called the Wilmot Proviso,  and his closing of the deal was the Dred Scott decision&quot;. She  answered, &quot;Never mind the details. Why did we let them talk us into it  at all?&quot;<br />The mind reels.<br />This book will show him take on as  sensitive a moment in our History in front of 6,000 people with an off the  cuff questioning of the audience that few would ever attempt and even fewer  would survive. You will hear him speak of Family, not in the abstract as a  politician, but as a father, a son, a son in law.<br />An accomplished  classical musician, a sailor who has crossed several oceans more than once,  syndicated writer to 300 papers, orator, advisor to Presidents, a true  original.<br />His admirers on the book jacket range from George Will to  Michael Kinsley, Henry Kissinger to Milton Friedman.<br />John Kenneth  Galbraith summed this work to perfection, &quot;As ever, sheer delight from  humor and prose, whatever the political faith&quot;.<br />The Ant was part of  a speech when Mr. Buckley was to share the dais with a host of speakers  that were distinguished to say the least. To justify his presumption to  speak he said; &quot;Three days after Pearl Harbor, one day after Germany  joined Japan in declaring war on the United States, an agitated State  Department Messenger brought President Roosevelt the news that Bulgaria had  just declared war against us. &quot;Did you ever,&quot; commented Mr.  Roosevelt, &quot;hear an ant pass wind in a hailstorm?&quot; A  pause..........Bulgaria salutes you.<br />It's how I felt trying to comment on  what is just a portion of this man's life and thoughts. He and this work  are as others have said before me, National Treasures.se Louisiana, when we got all  the other States free? He explained, &quot;that Louisiana was owned by two  women, Louise and Anna Wilmot, and that they sold it to General Winfield  Scott, provided he name it after them. This was called the Wilmot Proviso,  and his closing of the deal was the Dred Scott decision&quot;. She  answered, &quot;Never mind the details. Why did we let them talk us into it  at all?&quot;<br />The mind reels.<br />This book will show him take on as  sensitive a moment in our History in front of 6,000 people with an off the  cuff questioning of the audience that few would ever attempt and even fewer  would survive. You will hear him speak of Family, not in the abstract as a  politician, but as a father, a son, a son in law.<br />An accomplished  classical musician, a sailor who has crossed several oceans more than once,  syndicated writer to 300 papers, orator, advisor to Presidents, a true  original.<br />His admirers on the book jacket range from George Will to  Michael Kinsley, Henry Kissinger to Milton Friedman.<br />John Kenneth  Galbraith summed this work to perfection, &quot;As ever, sheer delight from  humor and prose, whatever the political faith&quot;.<br />The Ant was part of  a speech when Mr. Buckley was to share the dais with a host of speakers  that were distinguished to say the least. To justify his presumption to  speak he said; &quot;Three days after Pearl Harbor, one day after Germany  joined Japan in declaring war on the United States, an agitated State  Department Messenger brought President Roosevelt the news that Bulgaria had  just declared war against us. &quot;Did you ever,&quot; commented Mr.  Roosevelt, &quot;hear an ant pass wind in a hailstorm?&quot; A  pause..........Bulgaria salutes you.<br />It's how I felt trying to comment on  what is just a portion of this man's life and thoughts. He and this work  are as others have said before me, National Treasures.	2000-05-22
2466868:US	53047425	R12MBTXGH1BUXW	0590520792	544452838	The Day of Reckoning (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 8)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	I know, why do I read much less review a book like this.....	Actually there are many reasons and they all, I would suggest, can be found by answering the question, &quot;why do I read?'<br />My involvement with Star Wars began with a 4-hour wait on a brutally hot afternoon to see  the original movie. Even though decades have passed my Father still holds  that day against me.<br />Star Wars in all of its written forms are great fun.  Mr. Lucas with the help of talented Authors/Authoress' has kept the Galaxy  he created interesting and fresh into it's third decade. There are many  things that continue from generation to generation, not all are positive,  some are harmful, others destructive. This science fiction epic has now  become an event for the original kids to now bring their kids to enjoy a  common interest.<br />Jude Watson is responsible for continuing the adventures  of Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan during a time period prior to Episode I, as well as  providing insight that is valuable in the future for fans. And for those  who follow this series of which this is installment #8, Qui-Gon is off to  confront a fallen former apprentice of his, Xanatos, for the final time?  Will Qui-Gon take Obi-Wan back as his apprentice? And how will this latest  installment leave you hanging?<br />I do sit with kids in the local store,  sometimes I listen, and sometimes I am questioned. The questions are  usually confined to do I really read these kids books, and amazement that I  saw the original film and have yet to die of old age. There is a tremendous  amount of garbage that is all too accessible to children. Just turning on  the television can expose them to R-rated violence, and there are dozens of  channels of programming that do not even rise to the level of  trash.<br />That's why I read these books. I love seeing young kids with  books, the same kids that will write reviews very soon here on Amazon. And  the message these books send is a positive one; Peace Over Anger, Honor  Over Hate, Strength Over Fear, violence is always a last and unwanted  result; any death is to be mourned.<br />I thank Mr. Lucas and Jude Watson for  this series. The books are fun, they are written well, you cannot fool a  child as they sense nonsense well before adults. And while there is some  violence in these books it is comparatively mild, and always discussed in  an intelligent context.<br />So I am thrilled a new generation has embraced  this saga, and better yet, it gives this &quot;old&quot; Star Wars fan more  to read about that time so long ago.......the 1970's!unwanted  result; any death is to be mourned.<br />I thank Mr. Lucas and Jude Watson for  this series. The books are fun, they are written well, you cannot fool a  child as they sense nonsense well before adults. And while there is some  violence in these books it is comparatively mild, and always discussed in  an intelligent context.<br />So I am thrilled a new generation has embraced  this saga, and better yet, it gives this &quot;old&quot; Star Wars fan more  to read about that time so long ago.......the 1970's!	2000-05-22
2473174:US	53047425	R2PBQGWH0IC9EN	0670885177	634736736	Reap	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Not the picture postcard version of Vermont.	I was going to stick with 4 stars but I believe it was my own &quot;Vermont&quot; that generated that feeling. This is an exceptional young writer who I look forward to reading again.<br />&quot;The boy ran a  hand over a buzz cut that looked like a skim of mold covering his  skull&quot;.<br />Great metaphor! Also indicative of the work. An accurate  description, but an uncomfortable, queasy, description. Mr. Rickstad makes  dozens of acute observations about people and their thoughts, often  unpleasant, but very real, and very well written.<br />Another reader at  Amazon suggested this book, I would thank the person by name but I didn't  get permission, so I will just say thanks &quot;AA&quot;.<br />There is not  much of Vermont I have not been to, the State also happens to be my  favorite place to spend time. Mr. Rickstad clearly knows his material, from  geography, to speech patterns, to the dirt racetracks hidden amongst the  Mountains of the Green Mountain State.<br />What was particularly well done  was the County Fair. I have been to a few in that state, and the Author  clearly has spent his time there as well. I did not find the humor that  others said they read. I found the book to be as dark as the dirt logging  roads along which much of the great dialogue between characters takes  place. Or perhaps as dark as Reg or his home-painted black Camino.<br />There  is an enormous story told in a relatively short 284 pages. The book is an  extremely abrupt corruption/coming of age experience for one young man, and  the stories and often-personal tragedy of a host of other people that are  hard to like, but you feel for them as the book progresses.<br />There was a  detail that I did not see in the other reviews that I thought was a  brilliant bit of irony. Now I may have misread it, and I wouldn't want to  ruin it for other readers. However if I understood the detail correctly it  was brilliant.	2000-05-18
2473854:US	53047425	R22LX2J0FBRNKM	0817310274	484625580	Somebody Told Me: The Newspaper Stories of Rick Bragg	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Evening, a child sitting on grandmother's lap, whispering	No matter where you're from picture this; a child sits on a grandmother's lap rocking on the front porch in the early evening. Take your time... You there yet? I still remember being held by my grandmothers, and loving it.  Think N.C. Wyeth or perhaps Norman Rockwell if you like. Late spring is  filling your senses with smells, sights and sounds. The Author Mr. Rick  Bragg sees this scene and..........<br />&quot;This is a place where  grandmothers hold babies on their laps under the stars and whisper that the  lights in the sky are holes in the floor of heaven&quot;.<br />If writing gets  better than that sentence I look forward to finding it. Writing like that  is why I read. Writing like that does not just give you pause; it brings  you to a full stop. It brings back memories, it makes it hard to swallow  because of the emotion that has grown in you and clings to your throat.<br />I  have read that sentence, that very first sentence from the first story in  &quot;Somebody Told Me&quot; dozens of times. I'm convinced it's  perfect.<br />I cannot refer to this collection of short stories as newspaper  articles. Newspapers are &quot;the press&quot;. Mr. Bragg is not amongst  that group except for the fact his stories often appear there.<br />Mr. Bragg  takes you everywhere you want to go, and places you would give anything  never to have seen. In a given sentence he makes more powerful and complete  statements saturated with emotion than any tabloid could produce in 100  years. That same sentence will cause a reader to feel the full force of  what he describes. No tricks, no course language that others use because  they lack the inventory, the lexicon to generate such emotion. No  exaggeration, no hyperbole, just what is true, just what he sees.<br />A young  girl, bottle caps and New Orleans, ice tea competitions, 50-year high  school reunions, and a drive through restaurant with chitterlings. And if  you enjoy laughing, The Pig Farmer playing The Dixie Chicks, the pigs  (literally) that listen, and The Country Club next door that prefers they  need not have to, will leave you gasping.<br />Rick Bragg is a National  Treasure. This book is unconditionally guaranteed to be one of, if not the  best piece of reading you will do this year!pigs  (literally) that listen, and The Country Club next door that prefers they  need not have to, will leave you gasping.<br />Rick Bragg is a National  Treasure. This book is unconditionally guaranteed to be one of, if not the  best piece of reading you will do this year!	2000-05-17
2474154:US	53047425	R1LO9CQDB2T6NX	0762406771	301445139	Strange Fruit: Billie Holiday, Cafe Society, And An Early Cry For Civil Rights	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The lyrics are enough for me at the moment.	I came to this book from references made to the song in &quot;Without Sanctuary&quot;. I also recall references in &quot;The Debt&quot;, and &quot;The Unsteady March&quot;.<br />The title of this review only reflects a  need to absorb what I have read, and also to take a pause. This subject is  so grim it almost defies imagining. Even the song &quot;Strange Fruit&quot;  stops everything when it is sung, causes controversy to this day, and has  only been attempted by a handful of singers in it's 60 year history.<br />Mr.  Margolick imparts a great deal of information in what is a brief work. It  cannot be complete, but it is outstanding for what he does shed light on.  Ms. Holliday had a very complex and tragic life, but was certainly loved by  virtually all who knew her. She died quite young and the causes are all  there for the reader to measure.<br />There is always some bit of fascinating  human irony that comes with a story such as this. The quote that follows is  from the book.<br />&quot;Khallil Abdul Muhammad, Louis Farrakhan's  notoriously anti-Semitic disciple and maestro of the &quot;Million Man  March&quot;, has quoted it (the song) in his speeches assailing American  racism-unaware, apparently, that the song was written by a white Jewish  school-teacher from New York City&quot;.<br />I mean no offense to anyone by  highlighting that quote. For me it is another example of the root causes of  the racial problems we face. We fear what we don't know, and we often don't  take the time to learn the truth, and prevent our fear.<br />A great book,  should be a part of your Civil Rights library and all libraries for that  matter.	2000-05-17
2475115:US	53047425	R2B6G9ZWLQGH7A	0802116620	158786120	The Battle	Books	4	22	24	N	N	191 years ago yesterday, one every 3 seconds...	May 16, 1809 marks the beginning of a great work based on Napoleon's battle at Essling. The actual battle was begun on the 21st of May and continued until May 22nd. The number that staggers the senses is that 1 man  died every 3 seconds during this battle. Approximately 40,000 individuals  died in less than 48 hours.<br />The book can be enjoyed strictly from a great  historically based read, or can be followed in detail with the help of the  record of the battle formations on the inside covers of the front and back  of the book.<br />One of the many great attributes of this book is that the  Author covers the events so you feel as though you have gained a detailed  knowledge of the events and major players without making you feel as though  you have trudged through a dry history textbook.<br />Mr. Rambaud accomplishes  this is 294 pages of prose, in a style that does not lack detail or depth  due to the relative brevity of the work. It's true the battle was for just  under 2 days, the events and those involved were in the tens of thousands,  and an Author less in command of his subject and its expression could have  droned on. Mr. Rambaud fascinates, vividly recreates the gore of early 19th  century battle, but never stoops to the sensational. The facts of the  battle and the manner in which it was carried out require no embellishment.  To be enjoyed and understood by the lay reader is not easily done, Mr.  Rambaud just makes it seem so. To those interested in greater detail there  are the battle records, as well as outstanding source notes, and brief  histories of the remainder of the lives of many key players.<br />Mr. Rambaud  has produce a tremendous award winning book that old fans and newly  interested parties of Napoleon, his Marshals, and Generals will  enjoy.<br />Recommended, a great read!	2000-05-17
2479992:US	53047425	RAS4RJ9RUK05D	096751231X	836726723	Danger Close, Second Edition	Books	4	59	61	N	N	I finished this book 90 minutes prior to Mother's Day.	The timing of my coming to the end of this book could not be more appropriate. Mike knows what I mean, and I strongly recommend this book to anyone who remembers how important Mothers are, and to those who may need a  bit of reminding.<br />This work is about many, many issues. I believe that  everyone can find a part of themselves in this book. Please do not be put  off thinking this is a book for guys, a book about the Military. The  service was a big part of the life he describes, it is a part of the story,  not the entire experience.<br />I was asked to &quot;have a look&quot; at this  book, and in keeping with my statements on my personal page, I want anyone  who reads this review to know that. This is the first time I have done  this, as I believed people might not feel I was being objective. However, I  was free to read or not read the book, to comment or not comment. I read  the entire book, and I am pleased that I did.<br />This book has a different  rhythm than most books I have read. I believe the reason is that there was  not a Publisher questioning and commercializing what is an amazing story  for a young man. This book reads like real life, the irony is that many  times books are praised because &quot;it made a person feel as though they  were there&quot;. With an autobiography, very often there will be a second  name that is involved to a degree in writing the book. Mike Yon wrote this  book, and the following is a compliment, there are times the writing is  offered with two many short thoughts that certainly could have been  massaged to be more &quot;elegant&quot;, but it would have killed the  book.<br />A neat evolution takes place in this book. As Mike tells his story  he matures as a writer as his life goes on. The epilogue hints at the  writing skills he will refine, just as he developed all the other talents  he has. His sometimes very painful childhood memories are presented just  that way, painfully, candidly, the way a young man would think of them as  they happened. Mike also looks back with the distance of years at the same  events sharing his philosophy on parts of life with wisdom well in excess  of his years.<br />Mike could have become a statistic, as a child he was put  through hell in countless ways, he witnessed the behavior of a Stepmother  that was sadistic, but at 18 he became a member of this Country's Elite  Special Forces. He did not become a burden to anyone; he became an asset  for us all.<br />At the moment of great personal triumph, circumstances landed  him in jail facing a murder charge. All he had accomplished was virtually  guaranteed to be destroyed. I believe it would have destroyed people with  &quot;normal childhoods&quot; much less the hand he was dealt.<br />This is a  brutally candid book that took a great deal of courage to write much less  publish. He never &quot;sold out&quot; his story, and this book should not  be confused with people who seem to enjoy sensationalizing their misery and  that of others for a buck. The bestseller list at this moment contains one,  and readers thankfully have trashed it.<br />The only reason I wish Mike had  gone with a &quot;Name&quot; for a publisher is that this work would have  gained a much larger audience. I know the story would have lost some of its  intensity, but his decision to produce the book as he did is consistent  with the person he is. His being faithful to his story was more important  than the number of books he would sell.<br />This is a great read. It is at  times painful, at other moments upsetting. In the end you will feel  admiration for the man who gives so much credit to his Mother, and to his  Grandparents. A woman named Viola helped, and her entrance into his life is  described with some of the best humor I have read. She probably deserves  her own book.<br />The ending of this book is imperfect just as real life is;  the Author remained true to himself and his experiences. I felt very good  with his final thoughts, like the book they were real. A positive ending,  not a contrived, slick, happily ever after bit of nonsense.<br />I believe  this Author has a great deal more to say, and I look forward to listening!ghts, like the book they were real. A positive ending,  not a contrived, slick, happily ever after bit of nonsense.<br />I believe  this Author has a great deal more to say, and I look forward to listening!	2000-05-14
2481649:US	53047425	R2LLO1CXQMGU6I	0312869096	405411063	Shutdown	Books	1	27	29	N	N	300 Pages Of Recycled Ideas Together With Advertising	It is not always possible to read Authors that are already known quantities. There were no reviews on Amazon so I took a chance as the book was endorsed by more than one well-known Author. Never again will I rely on  another Author.<br />I will not say this is the worst book I have read because  something else will surely come along. But my observations are as  follows.<br />The Author is an engineer at AMD (Advanced Micro Devices), I  felt is was reasonable to presume he could write a decent work on computer  chips as that was his &quot;day job&quot;, and one that he surely should  keep.<br />I have never before commented on the quality of proofreading. This  book is so filled with bad spelling and groups of words masquerading as  sentences that it was distracting to read. In one section three consecutive  pages contain the most basic spelling errors.<br />Entire scenes from the book  have been in either another book or movie. Remember when a Japanese bad guy  uses a naked woman as a table for Sushi? Well I do, it was in a Sean  Connery movie, adapted I believe form a Crichton novel. The writer's  imagination was limited to substituting one girl for two.<br />The book is an  endless product endorsement as the world's chip manufacturers are  victimized, AMD is of course immune. AMD is also the processor of choice  with detailed explanations on why the main character in the book chose it  over....you guessed it a Pentium III. The name of the notebook is mentioned  dozens of times.<br />The author's knowledge of a SEAL Team he portrays in the  book is zero. Again they were equipped at The Sharper Image and can not  check the time without mentioning the brand and model of their watch, their  GPS equipment is also a store brand and it beeps when turned on! Exactly  what a SEAL team needs when hiding several feet from an enemy, beeping  equipment, and watches that could be seen from a couple hundred  yards.<br />The Author also decided to make a woman a member of the SEAL team,  and then has her in a relationship with a team member who she chats with  about having children as they approach the beach. I know it sounds like I  must be making this up but it's sadly all in the book. The President Of The  United States carries a football with him constantly. His deepest thought  is whether or not he could run the Country without his football!<br />The bad  guy from the Japanese side is named.......&quot;Slick Willy&quot;. I wish I  were kidding. The SEAL commander is Derek Sting Ray. Every time someone  wants his attention they say, &quot;Sting?&quot;, and the next sentence is  &quot;Ray turned, Ray smiled, Stingray, Stingray. My favorite was when he  leaned back in a chair that was bolted to the floor of the  submarine!<br />Please let this book die a quiet death. You have read what's  in it before, if you like the Authors who endorse the book don't buy it, it  strains credibility to believe they think this book has any merit.<br />The  only information this book offers is a repetition of hardware and software  companies, and the CEOS that run them.<br />Most everything that is wrong with  lousy, commercialized, recycled fiction is in this wretched book. And when  the writing isn't annoying you, the 300 pages of product endorsements may  stop you from reading this. I finished it because I won't comment on a book  unless I do.<br />My money was wasted, as was my time. I write this in hope  that I save both of yours.L team,  and then has her in a relationship with a team member who she chats with  about having children as they approach the beach. I know it sounds like I  must be making this up but it's sadly all in the book. The President Of The  United States carries a football with him constantly. His deepest thought  is whether or not he could run the Country without his football!<br />The bad  guy from the Japanese side is named.......&quot;Slick Willy&quot;. I wish I  were kidding. The SEAL commander is Derek Sting Ray. Every time someone  wants his attention they say, &quot;Sting?&quot;, and the next sentence is  &quot;Ray turned, Ray smiled, Stingray, Stingray. My favorite was when he  leaned back in a chair that was bolted to the floor of the  submarine! <br />Please let this book die a quiet death. You have read what's  in it before, if you like the Authors who endorse the book don't buy it, it  strains credibility to believe they think this book has any merit.<br />The  only information this book offers is a repetition of hardware and software  companies, and the CEOS that run them.<br />Most everything that is wrong with  lousy, commercialized, recycled fiction is in this wretched book. And when  the writing isn't annoying you, the 300 pages of product endorsements may  stop you from reading this. I finished it because I won't comment on a book  unless I do.<br />My money was wasted, as was my time. I write this in hope  that I save both of yours.	2000-05-13
2485074:US	53047425	R28M68FFJY1E02	0944092691	543269792	Without Sanctuary: Lynching Photography in America	Books	5	83	90	N	N	It can, it did, and it does happen here.	There are no adjectives that do justice to the depravity that is documented in this book. No book I have read has been more disturbing to read or comment upon. The reason is the proximity in time and place of  these events of pure evil.<br />Twenty-three States, one shy of 50% of the  Continental United States, are represented in this book. Many of the States  not involved are sparsely populated to this day. To say this  genocide/holocaust was pervasive is more than reasonable. I use holocaust  in its literal meaning of &quot;wholly consumed by fire&quot;. I note the  difference, as the events in Nazi Germany did not take place here. The  burning of human victims on the soil of The United States has its own  distinctive horror, which must be acknowledged as part of our  History.<br />The word History often implies a buffer of time; a space to  distance ourselves from what some would like to forget. I have read,  &quot;Blacks should get over it&quot;. This is generally a claim that all  this sadism ended with Lincoln. It is true that &quot;only&quot; 75% of the  lynchings in the book are of &quot;Blacks&quot;, but as the number of  lynchings decreased the percentage rose to 90%. This book shows a lynching  from the 1960's, NOT the 1860's. If the authors chose to include other  photos, the murder by dragging in Texas of a &quot;Black&quot; man would  bring us if not literally to today, then a number of years so low in single  digits, recounting it as a number of months ago may be more  reasonable.<br />The other vacuous defense I have noted is, &quot;I, my  Family, my Grandparents, never did own slaves&quot;, and so on. And so  what? What is documented in this book is less prevalent today because you  will likely be caught and jailed/executed, because the world is watching,  and now we care what others think. Do people suppose the basic nature of  those that did or watched these acts, many of who are alive today has  changed? Change doesn't happen in 40 years. When Franklin Delano Roosevelt  refused to sign anti-lynching legislation, while one million black soldiers  fought for what this Country is supposed to represent, he sent a message  not just about losing the Southern vote for his Presidency, but a much  wider apathy.<br />The sport of lynching attracted huge crowds. Special trains  would bring entire Families to watch. One murder and mutilation was  witnessed by 15,000 people. One 9 year old who could easily be alive today,  and if so I truly hope is sane and was only an unwilling victim of Parents  stated &quot;I have seen a man hanged&quot; he told his Mother &quot;now I  wish I could see one burned&quot;.<br />What the book did not mention, and  what would be devastating if done, is if the press chose to track down the  participants and or the viewers. The photographs are there, the companies  that made the postcards are probably gone, but the postcards were  addressed. Some of the deviants of our species highlighted their faces when  sending the cards to friends and Family.<br />What would that exposure  accomplish, for what is in those pictures is part of all of us, it is our  nature. We are the only species that tortures its own for pleasure and  amusement. From the text;<br />&quot;What was strikingly new and different in  the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was the sadism and  exhibitionism that characterized white violence. To kill the victim was not  enough; the execution became public theater, a participatory ritual of  torture and death, a voyeuristic spectacle prolonged as long as possible  (once for 7 hours) for the benefit of the crowd&quot;.<br />And it gets worse,  parts of victims displayed in store windows, the scramble for body parts as  mementos. Piece of human bone on a watch chain perhaps? And if you can  imagine, there is even more.<br />To this day our President can say nothing in  terms of an official apology. Were he to do so the subject of reparations  would arise, and that wouldbe inconvenient now wouldn't it?<br />Mr. Randall  Robinson wrote &quot;The Debt What America Owes To Blacks&quot; that I  believe would interest those who have read this work. The book &quot;The  Unsteady March: The Rise And Decline of Racial Equality in America&quot; by  Philip A. Klinkner and Rogers M. Smith, also makes excellent  reading.<br />Until we acknowledge as a people and as a Government, what  happened in this Country for centuries, this book will be just that, a  book. There will someday be a people capable of living in a Democracy and  not abusing what it offers. If that Nation of People exists I have yet to  read of them.<br />Germany took responsibility for it's crimes, why can't we.  Why do we suffer as allies the Nation of Turkey that slaughtered Armenians  by the millions, and to this day denied it happened?<br />The letter the man  wrote below to his Children is beautiful. I wish I could agree with the  thought that if we know our History we will not repeat it. We know what we  have done, the style changes, but we as a people do not. We as a Nation do  not require it of other Countries when we are arguably at our most  influential. Not our business? Nonsense! Put our house in order, and if  others desire our friendship, require the same. If we do not, History will  repeat like the Seasons.be inconvenient now wouldn't it?<br />Mr. Randall  Robinson wrote &quot;The Debt What America Owes To Blacks&quot; that I  believe would interest those who have read this work. The book &quot;The  Unsteady March: The Rise And Decline of Racial Equality in America&quot; by  Philip A. Klinkner and Rogers M. Smith, also makes excellent  reading.<br />Until we acknowledge as a people and as a Government, what  happened in this Country for centuries, this book will be just that, a  book. There will someday be a people capable of living in a Democracy and  not abusing what it offers. If that Nation of People exists I have yet to  read of them.<br />Germany took responsibility for it's crimes, why can't we.  Why do we suffer as allies the Nation of Turkey that slaughtered Armenians  by the millions, and to this day denied it happened?<br />The letter the man  wrote below to his Children is beautiful. I wish I could agree with the  thought that if we know our History we will not repeat it. We know what we  have done, the style changes, but we as a people do not. We as a Nation do  not require it of other Countries when we are arguably at our most  influential. Not our business? Nonsense! Put our house in order, and if  others desire our friendship, require the same. If we do not, History will  repeat like the Seasons.	2000-05-11
2485531:US	53047425	R87HDKCW611UB	0375503366	282741307	The Requiem Shark: A Novel	Books	4	20	22	N	N	&quot;...a gentle pendulum through which time might be kept&quot;	Mr. Griffin is a talented new Author who is likely to produce many more fine tales, be they historically based or pure fiction.<br />&quot;Requiem Shark&quot; is an unvarnished description of the profession of Pirates and their experiences and actions that will challenge your constitution. This  is probably not a book to read just before or after a meal, and if you tend  to recreate in your dreams that which you read while falling to sleep, keep  this book for the daylight hours.<br />The partial sentence that is the title  of this review is clear evidence that Mr. Griffin is a gifted writer, a  future master-craftsman. But the fragment is pure misdirection that when  placed in context, is rather dark, like tar?<br />The story is graphic, at  times brutally so, but as uneasy/queasy as I sometimes felt, the violence  was never gratuitous. The first definition in the glossary is for  &quot;Bloody Flux&quot;, its placement is appropriate.<br />The primary  character Mr. Williams memorializes the exploits of Captain Robert's and  his crew as they hunt for the ultimate trophy, the ship Juliette. Their  race to catch their prize takes them across vast distances, and tests how  far they will go, either through personal hardship, or in the infliction of  same on others. Mr. Williams also finds what he can maintain of his  original self and what end it will lead him to.<br />Sheri Holman wrote  &quot;The Dress Lodger&quot;. In her book she made the London of Charles  Dickens a theme park in comparison. Mr. Griffin too likes the dark side of  the human, and it's condition. His next book is to be about  &quot;anatomists and body snatchers in 18th century London&quot;.<br />I just  completed reading &quot;In The Heart Of The Sea&quot; by Nathaniel  Philbrick. I mention this as his research of the medical effects of the sea  on people was impeccable, and where these two stories experienced a similar  event, Mr. Griffin was on the mark with his facts.<br />A great tale, a brutal  tale, a tale for older readers. You have not seen Pirates like those that  Mr. Griffin will haunt you with. If re-opening a wound to remove the worms  that are growing within does not make your squirm too much, &quot;The  Requiem Shark&quot; will delight!tale, a tale for older readers. You have not seen Pirates like those that  Mr. Griffin will haunt you with. If re-opening a wound to remove the worms  that are growing within does not make your squirm too much, &quot;The  Requiem Shark&quot; will delight!	2000-05-10
2490142:US	53047425	R20KV9SV3DI7N6	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	218	279	N	N	27 Publishers are wondering what happened!	That is the number of publishers that said no to publishing one of the better works I have  read. This book (as I write) has been available for 4 days, is number 8 on Amazon, and  has nothing but 5 star reviews.<br />These  men often did not get the respect they deserved once those with an interest  in them finish using them for War-Bond drives, or as publicity for a  movie.<br />Per Oxford, hill-billy is a derogative term comparable to hick. So  not only is one of the commercial reviews above offensive, the writer  cannot spell. There are no definitions that are remotely positive. Ira  Hamilton Hayes was a member of the Pimwa Tribe, or perhaps a Native  American Pimwa. To sum up his life as, &quot;an Arizona Indian who would  die in an alcohol-soaked brawl&quot; is offensive, obnoxious, and a fact  the Author would not leap to, so how a person who &quot;read&quot; the book  could state that is remarkable. The misnomer &quot;Indian&quot; came about  from a sailor who was not the first to reach this continent, and when he  did he was so lost he called the people he found &quot;Indians&quot;. It's  the 21st century, can we start demonstrating basic respect? Especially for  those who either did or were willing to lay down their lives for those of  us writing these reviews, and reading their stories? This is not being  politically correct, it's about respect. After you read the stories of  these men, you, like I would follow; United States Marine Franklin Sousley  of Kentucky, or United States Marine Ira Hamilton Hayes where they dared to  go and know you were being led by the best. Iwo Jima killed Mr. Hayes, he  died later in Arizona. Mr. Hayes hitchhiked 2600 miles so a Mother knew she  was right, he went even when the government didn't want to bother making  the correction because it was &quot;too late&quot;, and he was told to drop  it.<br />PLEASE do not pass this book by because you believe it is a &quot;War  Story&quot;.  This is a tribute to a Father, a group of six men of which he  was a part,  as well as the tens of thousands who served in the Pacific  Theater. This is a  tribute to The United States Marine Corps, which is the  branch of the  service that this book focuses upon. Who will enjoy this, if  any of the  following appeals or applies to you buy the book. 1. &quot;The  Greatest Generation&quot; by Tom Brokaw 2. &quot;The Greatest Generation  Speaks&quot; by Tom Brokaw 3. &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; by Frank McCourt,  I'm very serious, as this book starts  with the primary subjects of this  book as very young children. And to say some of  their childhoods were hard  would be an understatement. One of the men  was an immigrant who was not  required to serve, and two others were not required to either. 4. If true  stories about the human spirit interest you, what it can endure,  what it  can give, and what an individual will sacrifice for another, you  will love  this book. 5. If you like anything written by Stephen Ambrose, Martin  Gilbert, Ron  Chernow, or Amanda Foreman order this now. These authors  profiled a wide  range of people, from Eisenhower, Winston Churchill, James  Rockefeller, and  The Duchess Of Devonshire. They all brought their  subjects to life in the  present, as you were reading.<br />This book is  primarily about the six men who raised the second flag on Iwo  Jima. But to  confine this to the category of a &quot;War&quot; book is not only a  disservice it's wrong. This is a book about Mothers, one of who maintained  against the world the identity of her son. She had changed &quot;too many  diapers&quot; to not know whom her boy was. The man who hitchhiked 2600  miles so  that Mother knew she was correct and then did what was necessary  so it was  recorded accurately for History. A wife who fought the  government when she  was told her husband, who was one of the six men, did  not qualify for burial  in The Arlington National Cemetery. Guess who won  that argument?<br />The Author James Bradleycould have written a book only in  tribute to his  Father, he did not, and if he had his Father would not have  been happy. And  that for me was the key to this majestic tale. This was  not just about a  man, six men, or The United States Marine Corps. This was  about what  thousands upon thousands did not for themselves but for each  other. This is  about the Families that raised the individuals you will see  in their First  Communion photograph, who became exceptional individuals,  leaders, and above  all team members.<br />The battle for Iwo Jima is nearly  beyond imagining. I found myself reading  and then reading again the  statistics, as they are overwhelming. If you have  read about the invasion  of Normandy, or watched the Movie &quot;Saving Private  Ryan&quot;, the  comparisons with Iwo Jima will startle you. If the issue  regarding the  decision to use Atomic weapons at Hiroshima and Nagasaki is  still a  question in your mind, I believe this book will put an end to that  debate.<br />This book is deserving of a very wide audience, I certainly hope  people  embrace it.<br />&quot;Many people go through life wondering if they  have made a difference. The  Marines don't have that problem&quot;  President Ronald Reagan.ey could have written a book only in  tribute to his  Father, he did not, and if he had his Father would not have  been happy. And  that for me was the key to this majestic tale. This was  not just about a  man, six men, or The United States Marine Corps. This was  about what  thousands upon thousands did not for themselves but for each  other. This is  about the Families that raised the individuals you will see  in their First  Communion photograph, who became exceptional individuals,  leaders, and above  all team members.<br />The battle for Iwo Jima is nearly  beyond imagining. I found myself reading  and then reading again the  statistics, as they are overwhelming. If you have  read about the invasion  of Normandy, or watched the Movie &quot;Saving Private  Ryan&quot;, the  comparisons with Iwo Jima will startle you. If the issue  regarding the  decision to use Atomic weapons at Hiroshima and Nagasaki is  still a  question in your mind, I believe this book will put an end to that   debate.<br />This book is deserving of a very wide audience, I certainly hope  people  embrace it.<br />&quot;Many people go through life wondering if they  have made a difference. The  Marines don't have that problem&quot;  President Ronald Reagan.	2000-05-08
2490294:US	53047425	R18B8XX5856ALM	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	4	253	273	N	N	Great book that can be enjoyed several ways.	All too often a book telling a story may also require that the equipment or the vessel used to be described. Much less frequent is the help of illustrations to let a reader who may know little to nothing about the  construction (in this case) of a Whaling Vessel, understand the  explanations and gain further enjoyment from the book. A further tribute to  the Author is that the detail given of the ship The Essex and the  implements of the Whaling Trade were of an appropriate length. Too long and  the reader would have been lost in a maze of technical jargon, too little  and understanding all that happened would not have been possible.<br />For  anyone desirous of going much deeper into the History of Nantucket, or of  Whaling, there are 39 pages of notes written in prose form at the end of  the book. They are organized by chapter, and they are further supplemented  by a Bibliography.<br />Mr. Philbrick clearly is a man qualified to relate  this tale which records one of the more miserable tales of human suffering.  It would have been easy and disappointing to let this story turn into a  lurid 93 day telling of decisions and actions that no person should ever be  forced to make. The Author maintained a scholarly approach, together with  objectivity on some points of contention/speculation, of the events and how  they may or may not actually have happened. He also offers insight into how  these massive creatures communicate, and how that could have played a role  in the collission.<br />The Author also relates modern day medical study and  facts about what physical and emotional torments the survivors endured. I  thought this was a welcome addition to the understanding of just how  horrible this experience was.<br />This is the only book I have read on the  History of the Essex. The book is readable even if your knowledge of ships,  like mine, is near zero. And the story told without embellishment is both  terrifying and amazing.<br />A very enjoyable book.	2000-05-08
2499313:US	53047425	RC403MGHN3CUV	0684833999	790348843	The White Sharks of Wall Street: Thomas Mellon Evans and the Original Corporate Raiders (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	4	40	42	N	N	If there was not blood to attract them, they created it.	This book filled a gap for me in the history of Wall Street and some of its more colorful participants. I think there is a tendency for the more notable &quot;raiders&quot; and their like to be confined to the 1980's and 1990's, and as this book points out this could not be further from the  truth.<br />This book chronicles the exploits of men like; Thomas Mellon  Evans, Lou Wolfson, and Leopold Silverstein. These individuals were out  inventing the type of financial transactions that today are commonplace,  and seem to have a rather brief history. The truth is that these; raiders,  proxy fighters, liquidators, were using sinking funds, Leveraged Buy Outs,  and Junk Bonds long before Michael Milken heard the term. In fact much of  this took place before he and Ivan Boesky and their crowd were born.<br />The  book delves into specific deals that are enticing reading just by there  names. In 1955 a complicated price-fixing scheme that included companies  still doing business today operated a system known as the &quot;phase of  the moon&quot;.<br />Shark-repellent, poison pills, greenmail, side deals,  collusion were all in a days work. What was also interesting is these  people never had their fill, many ending in bankruptcy court half a century  after they had started.<br />The did what they had to do to get what they  wanted, and if that meant convincing a 90 year old woman to part with her  shares, it was just another day in the trenches.<br />I would highly recommend  this book for anyone interested in Wall Street History in general, and the  specific predecessors of today's big names. Long before &quot;Chainsaw  Al&quot; there were men hacking away at companies that even he would have  found audacious.<br />The Authoress does a wonderful job of relating this  History in a readable easily accessible format, which is well worth a  reader's time. You will be amply rewarded.<br />I don't know how Trump got in  this; his contribution was an endorsement on the book jacket. Not one of  his deals made the book.<br />Great addition to your financial library.ket. Not one of  his deals made the book.<br />Great addition to your financial library.	2000-05-03
2500774:US	53047425	R7NJL0J554YVY	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	5	48	51	N	N	I have read them all and this is impressive, most impressive	It has been 1 year since the movie but 3 years have passed when this book's tale takes place.<br />The story and the writing are outstanding. This book reads with the same familiarity that the middle trilogy and the writings that surround those characters posses. I do not include the  &quot;Vector Prime&quot; series, which has been jarring to say the  least.<br />Mr. Bear is faithful to all that is appealing in this Universe of  long ago, and he certainly has his own style. Unlike many other Authors he  brings his talents to bear without trampling over the &quot;feel&quot; of  Star Wars, he does not impose himself on the ongoing saga he relates it  beautifully.<br />This adventure has to be read as it is filled with events  that will need to be known before the next movie is released. Like Phantom  Menace this story centers around Anakin, and expands on what we know about  him from the movie. I was curious how they were going to fill a 10 year gap  between the story of Episode 1 and 2, but this books demonstrates how, and  even includes a slick Coda at the end that makes the reader wish there were  an additional 341 pages.<br />A young man who we all know from the Deathstar  is introduced, and other familiar characters we know from the middle  trilogy appear here.<br />The book opens with a type of race that is every bit  as good, or better than the Pod Race, Anakin's flying skills are tested  with an incredible ship. And throughout it all, Obi-Wan keeps up. He knows  like we do, that Anakin is not one to be competed with. &quot;The Chosen  One&quot; and what he is and will become are beginning to show in this  volume.<br />I hope Mr. Bear will write many more installments. I kid you not,  he's that good!	2000-05-02
2502980:US	53047425	R3NIE6BEHX88KN	0060193670	419086161	Without Reservation: The Making of America's Most Powerful Indian Tribe and Foxwoods the World's Largest Casino	Books	2	35	53	N	N	Reservation Creation Historical Justification? Augmentation?	The lack of stars is for the manner the topic is presented, not because it is not important, but rather because this author is arrogant, and incredibly simplistic in his presentation. Real damage was done to the landowners in Ledyard and surrounding communities, and real damage was done  to Native Americans across this Country, and this Country's History. Both  groups deserve far better treatment, together with a mind that acknowledges  the complexity of this issue, and the complexity of any solution.<br />I live  about 90 minutes from the casino that is the topic of this book, however I  have lived in Connecticut for only 4 years, so I don't claim detailed  knowledge. This saga was covered widely in New England so I am somewhat  familiar with the history.<br />No one is pleased when they are forced to sell  their land against their will, or have the potential buyers reduced to one.  Not every person involved with this issue who either held public office or  worked for the US Government is; dishonest, a thief, or ignorant to the  point of incompetence.<br />What this story is about is greed, an endless  supply of opportunists, political shortcuts and short-term thinking,  together with a group of landowners who were victimized or at best  marginalized by those that should have been protecting their interests. The  exception appears be the three local men who held political office, two who  were dumped by their electorate for keeping their word, and another who did  not bother to run.<br />Jeff Benedict tips his hand before the book begins by  stating this book &quot;is must reading for anyone interested in the way  today's world really works&quot;. Finally the WORLD is explained by Jeff  Benedict. Below is a tough-guy pose of the author, or perhaps it was  something he ate. The back of the book is covered with one quote from the  text; I guess no one wanted to compete with he who knows how the world  works.<br />This is an issue that spans hundreds of years. The Native  Americans were consistently cheated, robbed, and exterminated by this  country's government. There is no way to give the Tribes back what they  were cheated out of, so what solution can possibly satisfy everyone? Those  of us around today may not have participated in the wrongs done to these  people, or even our ancestors. We are the ones who are here now, so we must  deal with these issues. Those that are blessed with bottomless ignorance  say to issues like the Native Americans, and people who's ancestors were  slaves, &quot;get over it!&quot; How wonderful that delusion of simplicity  must be!<br />&quot;On The Rez&quot; by Ian Frazier gives more statistical  background on Native Americans in general, and to what degree gaming plays  in their economic life, as compared to this work, which failed  miserably.<br />This epic of The World's Largest Casino has got to be  fascinating, and I look forward to reading several books with different  viewpoints.<br />This book has all the depth of a shadow, and the objectivity  of The Inquisition. There is a great story waiting to be told, but this  book is not it.ive  Americans were consistently cheated, robbed, and exterminated by this  country's government. There is no way to give the Tribes back what they  were cheated out of, so what solution can possibly satisfy everyone? Those  of us around today may not have participated in the wrongs done to these  people, or even our ancestors. We are the ones who are here now, so we must  deal with these issues. Those that are blessed with bottomless ignorance  say to issues like the Native Americans, and people who's ancestors were  slaves, &quot;get over it!&quot; How wonderful that delusion of simplicity  must be!<br />&quot;On The Rez&quot; by Ian Frazier gives more statistical  background on Native Americans in general, and to what degree gaming plays  in their economic life, as compared to this work, which failed  miserably.<br />This epic of The World's Largest Casino has got to be  fascinating, and I look forward to reading several books with different  viewpoints.<br />This book has all the depth of a shadow, and the objectivity  of The Inquisition. There is a great story waiting to be told, but this  book is not it.	2000-05-01
2510791:US	53047425	R1HC3GD41H3567	0060193336	771444694	Free Fall	Books	5	27	32	N	N	He'd accept nothing less than a spot on the PGA tour.	This review's title is the end of one of dozens of spoken or silent musings, that contribute toward making this book brilliant.<br />The category this book is a member of is crowded. On any given day the local book superstore could pile a mound of \\"Political Thrillers\\" and measure the  result by the tonnage. If the same mound were arranged by quality Mr.  Mills's work \\"Free Fall\\" can stand with anyone. I enjoy Robert Ludlum, Tom  Clancy, Dale Brown, John LeCarre, and I have not been as excited about this  particular genre since I originally discovered the authors I  mentioned.<br />If asked to say what was the best element of this book I would  have to pass, for there are two, and that number could be easily  expanded.<br />The books I read vary widely, this work has some of the  best-written, crisp dialogue that I have read. There is nothing contrived,  it flows naturally, and there is not a word used that isn't required. In  many instances, lose a word or even change one, and the quality would be  gone. The best of the verbal exchange has a regular set cadence, and when  humorous an acidic edge.<br />Secondly Mr. Mills delivers the best female  character I can remember from this genre. There are no; James Bond  bubble-headed heroines or villains, this character runs on her own chemical  makeup, she does not try to compete with testosterone. She does not wear  psuedo-male power suits, nor does she swear like a pipe fitter. And  finally, she does not wear seran wrap designer clothes a la The Thomas  Crowne Affair. She is the best at her profession, makes some pretty astute  observations about life (the vanity plate BMW bit is priceless), and she  leads from wherever she stands.<br />The only detail that frustrated just a  bit, were the references to the previous book. They never preempted the  understanding of the plot, and in the end you will want to read the  previous book.<br />If you enjoy this category of book, the reading does not  get any better. Reccomended unconditionally.unconditionally.	2000-04-27
2513974:US	53047425	R2KBK84EPS896B	0375504044	393898778	Left for Dead: My Journey Home from Everest	Books	4	111	135	N	N	&quot;Every time water hit my forehead, my nose would itch&quot;	Dr. Weathers who is quoted in the title of this review is many things. His ability to joke about the damage he sustained is unusual. Perhaps surviving such an ordeal grants perspectives to those who live through them, whether the experience was begun by choice with terrible results, or an equally  terrible random accident.<br />Ever since the events of 1996 I have become  almost preoccupied by the stories of that expedition as well as others. I  have read all the books, and probably have more volumes than a non-climber  would be expected to have.<br />This book is unique, as the author does not  point fingers or make judgments about what happened or the individuals that  were involved. There is one exception but that is my opinion only. Dr.  Weathers does a better job than others of paying tribute to those who  survived and those who did not. He often would make a comment on how an  individual should be remembered by using positive memories as opposed to  apportioning blame as previous books have.<br />One &quot;professional  review&quot; described this expedition as a &quot;fiasco&quot;. Dr.  Weathers would probably let this affront to those who survived, those who  died, and the families left behind, as a comment made by a writer in need  of a dictionary.<br />Anyone who has the courage to climb one of these  mountains is many things, but they are not planners or participants in  fiascoes, or as Oxford states &quot;a ludicrous event&quot;. They are  adults who make they own decisions and attempt what few ever have or will  do. This does not make them better, but it certainly does not open them to  ridicule that oozes from ignorant writers of insipid book jacket  reviews.<br />This is a very very personal account of what Dr. Weathers and  his Family and friends went through. This is not a moment-by-moment  recounting of the Everest trip, rather a reflective look on his life that  is painfully candid, together with equally personal comments from his  family.<br />This is completely different from previous books; it extends way  beyond the confines of one author's attempt at spin control, to include the  extended group of people that wait thousands of miles away during these  assault attempts. It includes the hellish weeks for families and friends,  and the type of relationships that can survive this extreme sport.<br />These  people choose to go where they climb, and they take the associated risks.  Is every decision on every assault perfect, no more than any other day in  any other life. The real climbers are of the same &quot;right stuff&quot;  that can be found in other high-risk professions. The fact that for most  climbing is not a career, does not mean their judgement is  questionable.<br />As I have read all of these books, my fundamental respect  for these people as a group has grown. Are they perfect, who is? Before  anyone throws out a word like fiasco, let him or her attempt that which is  almost impossible. Until they do maintain your ignorance in silence, it  looks pathetic when published.<br />Great read, amazing men and women  climbers, and the families and friends who support them.is is completely different from previous books; it extends way  beyond the confines of one author's attempt at spin control, to include the  extended group of people that wait thousands of miles away during these  assault attempts. It includes the hellish weeks for families and friends,  and the type of relationships that can survive this extreme sport.<br />These  people choose to go where they climb, and they take the associated risks.  Is every decision on every assault perfect, no more than any other day in  any other life. The real climbers are of the same &quot;right stuff&quot;  that can be found in other high-risk professions. The fact that for most  climbing is not a career, does not mean their judgement is  questionable.<br />As I have read all of these books, my fundamental respect  for these people as a group has grown. Are they perfect, who is? Before  anyone throws out a word like fiasco, let him or her attempt that which is  almost impossible. Until they do maintain your ignorance in silence, it  looks pathetic when published.<br />Great read, amazing men and women  climbers, and the families and friends who support them.	2000-04-25
2515130:US	53047425	R3PHHKKH80TG2E	0385333862	94741593	The Running Mate	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Primary Colors readers might well like this book less.	I stayed away from &quot;Primary Colors&quot; as the &quot;Anonymous&quot; gimmick was deserving of many adjectives, none of them positive. I did see the movie adaptation hence the title of this review. Allowing for the tendency for the movie to be less than the book, I'm confident it was a  good read.<br />This is an extremely well written work by a great writer with  a sharp political eye, and a subtle and not so subtle, savage wit. There is  repetition in this book and that's where &quot;Primary Colors&quot; readers  might feel annoyed. There were very similar events between this book and  the movie of the first novel.<br />I thought this was one extremely well  written tale, but as another wrote, &quot;only fiction can do justice to  the truth&quot;, this was commentary on not only our electoral system, and  those who seek office but the confirmation process as well. And as  nauseating as the performance of most of the characters are, as you read  you will draw parallels to real life events, and politics in  general.<br />Calling this book fiction is a stretch. It would be too easy to  say that the behavior this book describes is why only 43% of eligible  voters showed up at the last Presidential Election, or would it? Same  comment for why anyone would want to go through a confirmation hearing, or  for that matter subject himself or herself to a National Campaign for  office without it being the only alternative to a very long maximum  security prison sentence.<br />The book is satirical; the book is full of  extremely clever humor, as in wondering if a square dance step has anything  to do with El Alamein. But as you read keep reminding yourself this is  fiction, and if you convince yourself this truly is pure fiction, you are  either a greater patriot than I or one who actually would enjoy being part  of the circus that is Washington.<br />More morality tale than comedy,  entertaining but sobering to say the least.	2000-04-25
2516173:US	53047425	RC48LXE2H0SGW	0316120383	416422089	The Chivalry of Crime	Books	3	5	6	N	N	This Author has a great deal to offer............	I was not able to get in step with this book. Books have a cadence a rhythm, the better the book and the reader synchronize the better the reading experience.<br />I believe Mr. Barry has a great writing talent, and  there is a great deal that is transpiring in this book, but I do not  believe it will be the one people remember after he produces more.<br />As  mentioned elsewhere there are two stories that evolve within the book. One  story is in two parts and brackets what is the main topic and writing of  the work. I actually thought the secondary story of Joshua more compelling  as a reader. The bulk of the story is recounted in the past tense and  centers around Jesse James and variations of his gang. The chapters  regarding James often made rather large leaps in time when I was  questioning was there really nothing happening in the span that was  eliminated. Much of James's story is related from his first person  perspective, his private unspoken thoughts.<br />The book is good, and maybe  with more knowledge of Jesse James it would have been better for this  reader. I just never found myself thinking about the story unless I was  actually reading it. When the story remains confined to the opened book, I  think that's relevant and negative.<br />I do think this author will be heard  from again, and when the next book arrives I will buy it.	2000-04-24
2523486:US	53047425	R2OSOLUZS7BWBH	0671785400	309343452	No News at Throat Lake	Books	4	18	19	N	N	He sees life differently, and writes brilliantly.	I think most people who read a great deal secretly hope to write, I freely admit I am guilty. And so when I read a razor sharp piece of writing that appears to have been written with as much ease as skill, it's a love hate reaction.<br />Mr. Donegan has senses that are like those we all posses,  however that's where the similarity ends. A person hears a phrase spoken,  the Author hears it with every possible variation his built in thesaurus  provides. We all see an event, he matches, contrasts, or finds a bit of  irony, with an infinite number of other events. You do not want to be the  subject his attention is focused upon when his wit is at work. He's hyper  perceptive, quick and ruthless. Think of a spinning propeller; now walk  through it.<br />A poem appears in a paper he writes for, his comment,  &quot;I've never seen such a lethal combination of bad poetry and bad  taste. It was the anniversary of her death, after all. As soon as I saw it  in the Tirconaill Tribune I wished I had never written it&quot;. Sure.<br />He  went to cover an event where the tension between Catholic and Protestant  were taught to say the least. Ever resourceful he &quot;bought a copy of  The Illustrated Orange Song Book at a street stall (I wanted to learn the  words to &quot;The Pope's A Darkie&quot; just in case I ever needed to  ingratiate myself with the Reverend Ian Paisly&quot;. In the flow of his  narrative it is brilliantly placed and timed. I know my repeating it will  anger some. I would suggest they lighten up, wretched pun not  intended.<br />This is a memoir of a time spent working for a small newspaper  in an even smaller Irish town. It's 90% laugh out loud funny, and perhaps  10% dark, perceptive, social satire. You will enjoy every page, and will  hate when it ends.<br />I cannot wait to see Paul Newman play the Priest that  saved an island. It will be his next Oscar.<br />Brilliant read!	2000-04-20
2525274:US	53047425	R2WR8YENR8USOH	0316294748	555280414	Red Mafiya:  How the Russian Mob Has Invaded America	Books	3	69	83	N	N	Extremely frustrating!	The demise, dissolution, breakup, choose your own word, of The Former Soviet Union is about as dramatic a Historical Event as one is likely to witness. It is not a simple topic, what has happened, and what will continue to evolve will fill hundreds of books well into the future.  Attempting an overview of what is presented, as the largest illegal  transfer of wealth on record cannot be done in 288 pages even if the pages  are microfilm! Every time this book began to focus on a specific event, it  would jump to the next.<br />There is more information in this 288-page book  than anyone can possibly digest. Trying to keep track of the organizational  structure of the &quot;Mafiyas&quot;, and their relationships to each  other, would take a Cray Supercomputer. The Author also touches on  Historical events of huge import, theories on what may result from them,  and they too are quickly abandoned, before any real exposition has been  offered.<br />There is a theory that the wealth that has been removed from  Russia/The Former Soviet Union could have similar effects politically as  The Versailles Treaty of WW I had on Germany. It's an interesting idea, may  warrant a book, but not the shallow mention it receives here. There are at  least a dozen similar theories that are intriguing in the extreme. These  cannot be treated like bulleted points in a memo.<br />This is a highlight  book of illegal activity that spans from Meyer Lansky to the present. One  of the problems is names like Genovese, Gambino, and Gotti, are familiar to  readers of the genre. This book mentioned hundreds of organizations, and  half the Countries on the Planet! You are rushed through diamond mines in  Sierra Leone, Switzerland, Germany, Israel, Cuba, Azerbaijan, Turkey  Brighton Beach Restaurants, half of South America, virtually all of North  America, and nearly every state in the U.S. And there are the 14 time zones  of Russia and the Prison System of The Gulags across Siberia.<br />The Author  clearly knows his subject. I would hope he would take the time, slow down,  and concentrate on depth rather than breadth.early knows his subject. I would hope he would take the time, slow down,  and concentrate on depth rather than breadth.	2000-04-19
2526895:US	53047425	RM2WOW5KFEPJN	0871137658	553666976	In the Fall	Books	5	90	98	N	N	This Is What 5 Stars Are For!	Well before I finished this book, I was thinking about the reviews I had previously written. I tried to recall those that I thought merited 5 stars. By the time I finished, &quot;In The Fall&quot;, I decided a five star rating is something that should be rather scarce.<br />Book Jackets generally  suffer from severe cases of superlative laced hyperbole. If all  endorsements were accurate you could walk blindfolded into your favorite  purveyor of books, lay your hand on the first tome to be touched, and a  Pulitzer, Booker, Nobel, or a Whitbread would be in you hand! However, it  is far more likely you would dredge up a tell-all book on Harry Potter's  Carbohydrate Addiction with a free coupon good toward any exploitive  bestseller, think Boulder Colorado, there are two on the bestseller list as  I write.<br />But in this scenario the odds are beaten, no 250-page  novel/screenplay, rather a 542-page piece of magic that booklovers live  for. &quot;In The Fall&quot; is with you whether you are reading, or away  from it. Mr. Lent creates characters so vivid, a story that reveals itself  without affectation, pretense, or literary sleight of hand, that this book  crosses that point in the reader's mind from a book, to an experience that  not only immerses you while being read, but crosses from just a piece of  fiction you read, to a set of acquaintances that stay with you. The  &quot;fictional&quot; conversations and events, the characters so vividly  rendered, you know not only would you recognize them on the street, but  wouldn't be surprised if you did. This is a story you think about as  happening, rather than just a book. The degree to which you enter this  world is a rare event, a special experience.<br />The Writer I thought of when  enjoying this work was John Steinbeck. The same way &quot;The Grapes Of  Wrath&quot; stays with you years after it was read, or &quot;East Of  Eden&quot; or &quot;Cannery Row&quot; lingers, this does the same. This is  a story you will remember in detail, these are characters names you will  always recall, this caliber of book is why I read. &quot;In The Fall&quot;  is the first book I have read in years that I believe will be a true  classic in time. &quot;Instant Classic&quot; is a moronic contradiction in  terms. A classic has to age, to endure, to continue to be relevant, this  work has all the necessary credentials, and in abundance.<br />This is Mr.  Lent's first book, but it will stand side by side with Writers who have  worked their craft for careers. I say this not to denigrate anyone's work,  rather to express what an achievement this book is. For those who create  the short lists for literary honors this one should be a foregone  conclusion. And as for being an award winner, I think that conclusion is as  safe a bet as one can make.<br />An incredible book whether the first, tenth,  or last. Mr. Lent stay healthy and write!remember in detail, these are characters names you will  always recall, this caliber of book is why I read. &quot;In The Fall&quot;  is the first book I have read in years that I believe will be a true  classic in time. &quot;Instant Classic&quot; is a moronic contradiction in  terms. A classic has to age, to endure, to continue to be relevant, this  work has all the necessary credentials, and in abundance.<br />This is Mr.  Lent's first book, but it will stand side by side with Writers who have  worked their craft for careers. I say this not to denigrate anyone's work,  rather to express what an achievement this book is. For those who create  the short lists for literary honors this one should be a foregone  conclusion. And as for being an award winner, I think that conclusion is as  safe a bet as one can make.<br />An incredible book whether the first, tenth,  or last. Mr. Lent stay healthy and write!	2000-04-18
2539035:US	53047425	R11JXWU9BOXBFU	1582430659	97700501	Deus Lo Volt!: Chronicle of the Crusades	Books	5	198	217	N	N	Written So Well, Overcame My Lack Of Background On Subject	I picked the book as I enjoy History, and Historically Based Fiction. The latter genre allows the reader to enjoy a story based on History without necessarily being very well versed in the period. The cover of this book  says &quot;A Novel By...&quot;, not even close.<br />Mr. Connell describes the  book thusly &quot;I think of this as a book about the crusades, not an  &quot;historical novel&quot; a term that suggests imaginary experiences and  unlikely conversations. Monologues and dialogues in the book are  paraphrased or condensed from those in medieval documents. Every meeting,  every conversation, every triumph or defeat, no matter how small, was  recorded centuries ago...&quot;<br />I do not spend much time reading the book  jacket/advertising, so I found myself with a History book on the Crusades,  despite the publisher's comment &quot;a towering work of the  imagination&quot;. I wondered if the jacket and the book matched.<br />Listen  to the man who wrote the book. What makes this book special is that it is  so well written that the result is highly readable, this is not a textbook  of the Crusades, or at least does not read like one.<br />So Jean, a soldier  on the Christian side of this epic, takes the reader with him and shares  the immediacy of a firsthand experience. There are maps provided so that  those names of places and cities that have not survived the last 1000  years, can be found easily by reference.<br />It's true that the more you know  about the topic the more easily you may read through this work. However, if  your knowledge is limited as mine was at page one, you still will enjoy the  book.<br />Novel, Historical Fiction, or History? From the standpoint of a  reader's enjoyment, it matters little. The writing talent overcomes what  the reader may lack, and the reading experience is excellent.	2000-04-11
2539875:US	53047425	R36VU3MRIH3YX	0374199892	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	1	25	48	N	N	Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.	And the stench is the rot that dwells from beginning to end in these fetid blind alleys that are this book. To contend that this is a tale of \\"The  Lute Player\\" is to suggest that these contrived series of round pegged  stories, crammed into square holes somehow results in a book. Believe this,  and then believe alchemy surely turns lead into gold.<br />Before you judge  this review, or buy the book, read paragraph 3 starting at the 4th line on  page 170. If that is not one of the most wretched metaphors that have been  put to paper, it is certainly one of the most inept.<br />The topics I list  can appear in written form when deftly handled, and be of importance to  what is read. However in this collection of flashbacks, flash forwards, and  flash &quot;where in blazes are we&quot;, and \\"what is this book trying to  say\\", rest assured that more often that not, this work is filled with  vulgar characters and insipid storylines that never resolve  themselves.<br />The Caravaggio painting on the cover is a giveaway, for  pedophilia shares center stage in this collection of nonsense.  Shares  only, as incest, child abuse, and the worst racial stereotypes, all fight  for preeminent prurience. Relations between consenting adults are cherished  and measured by the lingering pain. One target of incest kills, not out of  fear, but rather to remain thought of as \\"the best\\".<br />When a husband  stands at the deathbed of his Wife and reminisces about their life together  it is truly touching and beautifully written. I would hate to spoil the  poetry that is this event, but the key is the fond remembrance of the dying  wife's chamber pot! Now if that brings a tear to the eye this book is for  you.<br />Think of this vapid nonsense as one of those canvasses that passes  for Modern Art. Let's say a 3-foot by 5-foot panel painted entirely with a  paint roller, and then named blue #6. This Authoress would then stand and  speak, or even worse, write 480 pages of what this piece of nothing  \\"means\\", why it is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, and then dismiss  out of hand all the great masters, including the Caravaggio someone chose  for this book's cover.<br />I have never rated a book this poorly. This is  nothing more than a collection of still-borne short stories, laced with  detailed deviant behavior, which is so badly written my only hope is that  the paper is able to be recycled.<br />I have generally looked forward to  those works that were awarded The Whitbread Award. You could almost be  assured the award guaranteed excellence. This is no longer the case. ALL of  the professional reviews step very carefully around the landmines that  litter this wasteland of paper. \\"Great Ugliness\\" is true \\"Not All The  Connections Work\\" is also true. None of these reviews can come anywhere  near what transpires between the covers of this book, because there is no  way they could publish them.<br />Those that comprised this year's Whitbread  committee owe an apology to previous winners. Not only have they  discredited their own Award, they have placed in the midst of previous  winners a work deserving of nothing, much less the reader's time.nothing  \\"means\\", why it is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, and then dismiss  out of hand all the great masters, including the Caravaggio someone chose  for this book's cover.<br />I have never rated a book this poorly. This is  nothing more than a collection of still-borne short stories, laced with  detailed deviant behavior, which is so badly written my only hope is that  the paper is able to be recycled.<br />I have generally looked forward to  those works that were awarded The Whitbread Award. You could almost be  assured the award guaranteed excellence. This is no longer the case. ALL of  the professional reviews step very carefully around the landmines that  litter this wasteland of paper. \\"Great Ugliness\\" is true \\"Not All The  Connections Work\\" is also true. None of these reviews can come anywhere  near what transpires between the covers of this book, because there is no  way they could publish them.<br />Those that comprised this year's Whitbread  committee owe an apology to previous winners. Not only have they  discredited their own Award, they have placed in the midst of previous  winners a work deserving of nothing, much less the reader's time.	2000-04-10
2547945:US	53047425	R1QS2V3VQ76JQJ	0743200799	940393502	Failure Is Not an Option: Mission Control from Mercury to Apollo 13 and Beyond	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Remarkable Time, Men, Women, And Accomplishments	The fact that Apollo 13 did not appear in the book until page 306 of 380 pages put a great deal of NASA and their missions in perspective for me.<br />Apollo 13 is well known by those who remember, and a generation that learned about it through the movie, and great books like, Tom Lovell's  &quot;Lost Moon&quot;. I hope as many people know about the tragedy of  Apollo 1, and The Challenger is still rather fresh in the public's  mind.<br />Apollo 13 was an incredible accomplishment by all involved, and the  3 men who persevered to make it back are nothing short of remarkable. Those  on the ground took everything so personally, but the crew actually had to  live through it. However the book puts this mission into perspective by  taking the reader through the Mercury and Gemini programs as well.<br />Alan  Shepard was the first to climb on a rocket that had a bad habit of  exploding. I don't know what the &quot;Right Stuff&quot; actually is, but  he had to made from it. And the Mercury Astronauts that followed all had  experiences that were way up on the terror scale for non-astronauts/test  pilots. That is one of the most eye opening parts of this book, every  mission was so new, that the majority had problems that were potentially  fatal.<br />You will read about the first moon landing, I never knew what  happened on that one. Manned mission hit by lightening, a mission coming  back with engines still on because who knew if the heat shield was still  there. Every mission is just incredible from the complexity, and despite  this, the rate of success.<br />I especially admired the manner that Mr. Kranz  discussed the blown hatch on Gus Grissom's flight. The movie did a grave  injustice to a man who subsequently died doing his job. The factual stories  are incredible, taking liberties with what happened for dramatic effect are  not necessary, and, in this case cruel.<br />The way the Mission Control  people worked together, trusted one another, and took responsibility for  their actions, is better than any management book I have ever read. The  young age and the responsibilty that people in their 20's had was  remarkable.<br />Mr. Kranz and all those like him are role models; their  integrity and personal commitment were total. They gave this Country over a  decade, a type of pride that was unique, and they did it with a special  kind of class.<br />Long before the politicians got around to it this group  was ahead of the human relations curve. The final Lunar Landing included a  gesture that could only be made by the USA, as we were the only Country to  plant 6 flags there, and had the selflessness to pay tribute to a group  that you will have to read the book to learn about. I don't believe many  Countries would have done it, and I suppose it really was not a Country, as  much as the men and women acknowledging what is and what is not  important.<br />An exceptional memoir!or  their actions, is better than any management book I have ever read. The  young age and the responsibilty that people in their 20's had was  remarkable.<br />Mr. Kranz and all those like him are role models; their  integrity and personal commitment were total. They gave this Country over a  decade, a type of pride that was unique, and they did it with a special  kind of class.<br />Long before the politicians got around to it this group  was ahead of the human relations curve. The final Lunar Landing included a  gesture that could only be made by the USA, as we were the only Country to  plant 6 flags there, and had the selflessness to pay tribute to a group  that you will have to read the book to learn about. I don't believe many  Countries would have done it, and I suppose it really was not a Country, as  much as the men and women acknowledging what is and what is not  important.<br />An exceptional memoir!	2000-04-06
2553175:US	53047425	RAPCR1FLMK7FD	0671041401	554020976	The Shot	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Very Clever Turnabout, And Extremely Well Documented	The five stars here are for a well constructed, fun to read twist, on a topic most would consider exhausted.<br />This is my first read of this Author's work, but not my last. The JFK story is one that has been beaten  well beyond death. When I first saw the cover, my thought was, &quot;more  garbage&quot;. I could not have been more wrong.<br />The book is not one that  can be reviewed easily as the plot is so precise, well paced, and  consistent, that any specifics would begin the guessing before you got to  the book. In a sense this would be fine as the direction the book takes is  not one you will have seen before, or would guess. General commentary, or a  bit about the story would kill the fun. Many of the names in the book will  be familiar from other JFK conspiracy theorists; Sam Giancana, Tony  Accardo, Meyer Lansky, Bugsy Segal, OSS, FBI, CIA, MIRR, but that is where  the similarity ends. A talented mind can always find a new  perspective.<br />The Author recreates the time down to the guests on specific  talk shows, and popular television programming at the time like, &quot;Mr.  Ed&quot;, or movies that were playing like &quot;Psycho&quot;. The dialogue  at times is razor sharp, and the pace of the book will leave you missing at  least one night of decent sleep.<br />An all around great read. Highly  recommended!	2000-04-04
2556402:US	53047425	R160WYANZ0W2KN	067940256X	566124428	Rembrandt's Eyes	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Tribute To Rembrandt,  And A Gift To Readers From The Author	In a time when readers are inundated with books that are brilliant pieces of, &quot;gifted compression&quot;, which are as trite as they are brief, and when many books are masquerading as bad screenplays of movies we have already seen. A marvel the likes of, &quot;Rembrandt's Eyes&quot;, penned  by Mr. Schama arrives as a worthy descendent of Guttenberg's Press.<br />This  book lacks two traits that generally have kept me away from this type of  work; it lacks pretense, and affectation. If you love art and history this  Author provides both, and together with his eloquent prose he does well by  Rembrandt with hundreds of glossy illustrations that are stunning.<br />The  explanations of specific pieces are detailed and as lengthy as they need to  be. Any attempt to abbreviate what Rembrandt put in to his works, whether  major or minor, would be foolish, futile, and a disservice, both to the  Artist and the reader.<br />A full two-page spread of &quot;The  Nightwatch&quot; will take your breath away. This image will do so in part  by what the Author relates about the work, the history leading up to it,  the people portrayed, Rembrandt's methods, and then you turn the page and  find a work that can only be described in superlatives.<br />The Author has a  talent for the theatrical. He brings you along with delightful, readable  prose, he educates, and then he pulls aside the curtain to see your  reward.<br />And this is not only Rembrandt, but also Rubens, this is a 17th  century book of History. As the word renaissance may be applied to an  individual of varied talents, the word equally applies to this  effort.<br />The construction, and quality lavished on the book itself, is  rapidly becoming extinct with the books found at the local superstore.  Decades from now this volume will still be readable and intact, long after  books of lesser construction and content are browning into obscurity.<br />700  pages sounds like a lengthy read. Drop this book on your foot and you will  read the rest with your foot in a cast. But the latter may not be as bad as  it sounds as the more time you spend with this work, the more delighted you  will be.<br />I could not recommend this book more highly, simply brilliant!ou will  read the rest with your foot in a cast. But the latter may not be as bad as  it sounds as the more time you spend with this work, the more delighted you  will be.<br />I could not recommend this book more highly, simply brilliant!	2000-04-03
2569668:US	53047425	RCO25B2TH2G8R	0805063560	61699903	M: The Man Who Became Caravaggio	Books	4	48	53	N	N	It's Amazing How Much Of M's Life Can Be Reconstructed	I would have given this book 5 stars without a moment's hesitation but for one issue. The Author goes into very detailed analysis on 83 paintings. The color plates are limited to 8, and then there are 20 black and white faces  equally divided between, Caravaggio, and 4 of his models, Mario, Cecco,  Fillide, and Lena. If you are very well schooled in this man's work this  may not be an issue. However I, like one other reviewer went out and bought  a book so that I could see what the Author was talking about. This is a  great read, but as a major work, or definitive work, it is incomplete.<br />I  also have read Helen Langdon's book, &quot;Caravaggio A Life&quot;, which  was wonderful, and Desmond Seward's, Carravaggio A Passionate Life&quot;,  which is third amongst these three.<br />For so famous an individual, it is  amazing what an enigma he has remained to history. Without his passion that  kept him in touch, and in trouble with the police and a variety of  individuals, including, Cardinals, Popes, The Knights Of Malta, to name a  few, his already vague personal history would be a stretch to  document.<br />There has been some criticism of the Author's extensive  expansion upon what some consider very limited evidence. I really feel this  is a matter of degree. His entire life history is still being revised, as  are the paintings that are attributed to him. According to this Author he  signed one painting in his career.<br />In fairness to the Author he goes on  at length at the beginning that this is &quot;his hypothesis&quot;, he  never presents his opinions as being beyond reproach. He also rightfully  acknowledges that what we know of this man continues to expand and to  change. The Author's ending of Caravaggio's life is also called, &quot;pure  hypothesis&quot;. I found it intriguing, but I have read other  possibilities that are also not without merit. Based upon his conduct  throughout his life, and the extremely powerful enemies he made, the  Author's &quot;hypothesis&quot; is a reasonable one. This does not mean it  is the definitive one, and we probably never will know, as the last 500  years has not solved the issue.<br />Overall this is a solid work, and while  the Author does interpret he makes it clear when he is making a  &quot;hypothesis&quot;, and I found them intriguing.<br />A recommended book,  that also comes with a strong recomendation to have a visual collection of  his work as a reference aid, as it will add immeasurably to your reading  enjoyment.uot;hypothesis&quot; is a reasonable one. This does not mean it  is the definitive one, and we probably never will know, as the last 500  years has not solved the issue.<br />Overall this is a solid work, and while  the Author does interpret he makes it clear when he is making a  &quot;hypothesis&quot;, and I found them intriguing.<br />A recommended book,  that also comes with a strong recomendation to have a visual collection of  his work as a reference aid, as it will add immeasurably to your reading  enjoyment.	2000-03-28
2581553:US	53047425	R2SEGACMATCVAG	0385497431	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	4	61	66	N	N	50 Years, Narrated By 20+ People, And A 75 Word Manx Lexicon	If you have ever read a work by Umberto Eco you may feel confused, albeit slightly less so, when reading &quot;English Passengers&quot;.<br />Firstly, I suggest starting with the Epilogue. This spoils nothing, as it is a written  explanation of historical facts in the book, that when known to the reader,  will make reading more enjoyable. The same is to be said for the section  &quot;The Anglo-Manx Dialect&quot;. The Author does a good job of placing  these words in context, but it wasn't until I read this section that I  learned this language was not only a true language, but also Celtic with  relations to Ireland and Scotland.<br />These suggestions are not meant to put  you off, rather make your read a more enjoyable one than I might have had,  and a finish that was more satisfying for me. As I mentioned I felt a bit  like I had an Umberto Eco, &quot;What did I miss hangover&quot; but that  was my failing not the Author's.<br />The only item that I could not get  accustomed to was the diary style of one of the primary characters.  Possibly because he was so annoying, his form of journal notation just  reinforced his loathsomeness.<br />This is a great read. The Author's ability  to manage almost 2-dozen different voices, over half a century, that comes  together at the end in a brilliant manner, is no small feat.<br />There is  very little in this book that does not involve commentary from the Author,  albeit through the voices he either creates, or borrows from History.  Empire building, religion, government, race relations, are just a few of  the topics. And while I would never suggest this is a light read, or one  that constantly lifts your spirits, you will be well rewarded by the  conclusion.	2000-03-23
2585212:US	53047425	R2W0L3Y7TH3PFV	0226443396	997655698	The Unsteady March: The Rise and Decline of Racial Equality in America	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Well Written, Concise, Great Breadth And Depth Of Subject	I believe a measure of a great Historical work is one that acts as a catalyst for further inquiry. As I read &quot;The Unsteady March&quot; I noted other topical areas discussed which would keep me reading for several  months.<br />This is not a dry textbook it is eminently readable. I am not  suggesting this is a light read. I am saying the Authors did a remarkable  job of conveying History, together with their own thesis, to create a book  that should find a wide audience.<br />The book goes well beyond the primary  premise that the progression of Civil Rights only occurs when the need for  non-white assistance is needed, and for varying period of times thereafter.  Examples would include the larger military conflicts this country has  experienced.<br />What impressed me was that documentary sources were provided  for the positions that the Authors espoused. There are nearly 60 pages of  notes, which attest to the meticulous nature of their research.<br />The  subject of Race is extremely complex, and unlike other works this book does  not offer up stillborn utopian solutions. The reader is given a detailed  walk through the history of the issue, often accompanied by riveting quotes  from historical figures that will surprise, and often shock.<br />Another  feature I found extremely useful were the occasional use of surveys that  the Authors used sparingly but very effectively. The book also managed to  utilize important statistical information without the obvious distortions  that frequently contaminate such figures.<br />In the final section entitled  &quot;Shall We Overcome&quot; the book is brought to a well thought out and  organized review. This is then combined with an examination of current  racial climates and suggestions on what actions may help to improve these  continued disparities among the Races. However the suggestions are offered,  reasoned, and justified, not pompously hurled down, from an ivory or  otherwise constructed tower.<br />This is an extremely accessible book, that  will serve as a reference work for me, and as mentioned, a catalyst for  further reading.<br />Extremely well done, highly recommended.tremely accessible book, that  will serve as a reference work for me, and as mentioned, a catalyst for  further reading.<br />Extremely well done, highly recommended.	2000-03-21
2587538:US	53047425	R312L9QEATZRSM	0446527750	204741724	The Bodyguard's Story: Diana, the Crash, and the Sole Survivor	Books	5	97	105	N	N	Story About A Remarkable Young Man, Not Tabloid Nonsense	This is a straightforward explanation of what Mr. Trevor Rees-Jones experienced, and continues to cope with, to this day. This is not a &quot;Diana&quot; book. While she is a victim in this tragic accident, and  the stupidity that lead to it, she is portrayed as a human being. Mr.  Rees-Jones shares his time around her and her sons, and portrays Princess  Diana as a person and Mother, not as the star of tabloid circus fiction. He  was NEVER her bodyguard. He worked for and guarded Mr. Fayed the son, and  by extension the Princess, and her Sons.<br />I picked up this book as I  remember that date as the day that took two special people from us, who  were also great friends of each other, Mother Teresa and Princess  Diana.<br />This book is written from the perspective of Mr. Rees-Jones with  contributions from family, friends and co-workers when he was not conscious  to narrate events himself. This is his story, of a remarkable man who  recovered from horrendous physical damage, and contends with the accident  that will haunt him for life. He and his Family share what it was like for  them, how it nearly tore the Family apart, how it may have contributed to  the death of his Nain (Grandmother). His story is one of courage and of his  personal values and integrity that he never lost, when nearly everyone  around him were themselves for sale, regardless of whether they knew  anything, or just spouted fiction.<br />The book gives insight into the French  Legal System, emergency medical practices, and the remarkable young  reconstructive surgeon who gave this man back his face and his life.<br />The  only time sensationalism appears is when it is condemned. Photographers who  literally got in the way of rescue workers so as to get their pictures of  the dead and dying. The ridiculous stories that were touted as fact by even  the most &quot;respectable&quot; of news agencies.<br />This is also about a  Father who lost his Son, and still will not accept what happened. Today he  filed a suit to prevent the Author from benefiting financially from this  book. The Author was loyal to Mr. Fayed long after 99% of people would have  told him where to get off.<br />Nothing less than a conspiracy of Oliver Stone  proportions will satisfy Mr. Fayed the Father. Somewhere I hope he knows  that an extremely incapacitated employee of his, who drove a limousine that  was owned by a company Mr. Fayed is Co-Owner of, who was not licensed to  drive the limousine, was at the wheel when the horrific crash occured.<br />I  also believe the photographers contributed to the accident. What I still  don't understand, is how many pictures were needed of this woman, 1 million  2 million? Decide for yourself, but I believe no motorcycles, no white  Fiat, no deaths.<br />A tragic accident brought about by a series of judgement  errors. And they were not the errors of the security provided by Mr. Trevor  Rees-Jones or his Partner Kez.<br />Very good book, very sad story.y he  filed a suit to prevent the Author from benefiting financially from this  book. The Author was loyal to Mr. Fayed long after 99% of people would have  told him where to get off.<br />Nothing less than a conspiracy of Oliver Stone  proportions will satisfy Mr. Fayed the Father. Somewhere I hope he knows  that an extremely incapacitated employee of his, who drove a limousine that  was owned by a company Mr. Fayed is Co-Owner of, who was not licensed to  drive the limousine, was at the wheel when the horrific crash occured.<br />I  also believe the photographers contributed to the accident. What I still  don't understand, is how many pictures were needed of this woman, 1 million  2 million? Decide for yourself, but I believe no motorcycles, no white  Fiat, no deaths.<br />A tragic accident brought about by a series of judgement  errors. And they were not the errors of the security provided by Mr. Trevor  Rees-Jones or his Partner Kez.<br />Very good book, very sad story.	2000-03-20
2596944:US	53047425	R1UQ0EHE5BR1DJ	037550396X	928062715	Life Is So Good	Books	5	75	79	N	N	&quot;Ninety years later, I still don't like peppermint.&quot;	The quote that titles this review is written at the end of chapter one. It is a chapter that were it to be isolated as a short story, it would make the final list for any awards in that category.<br />There is no book I can  compare this to, but if you take the wisdom of &quot;Tuesday's With  Morrie&quot; and the struggles and triumph of the human spirit of  &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;, you begin to approach this book, the story of  the life of Mr. George Dawson.<br />Mr. Dawson started school when he was 98  years old. He is now approaching 102 and continues to work for his High  School Equivalency Degree. It is difficult to describe this man, as he has  no peers who have shared his 102 year life. Four wives shared parts of his  life, but Mr. Dawson continues to live after they all have passed away. Mr.  Dawson does note that many women would like to marry him now, and he has  not ruled the possibility out.<br />What is Mr. Dawson like? In the book he  muses as to why people say everything tastes like chicken, as an example  Rattlesnake. However no one ever says anything tastes like Rattlesnake. Mr.  Dawson is not &quot;like&quot; anybody. He is unlike anyone you know,  anyone you have read about, he is an original, one of a kind. Every day  that his life advances he becomes more unique, more of a treasure.<br />The  final chapters of this book are as dramatic as the first. Mr. Dawson has a  decision to make, a decision that either will allow this book to become a  reality, or for his life to remain kept only to those who have known him.  To make this decision he relies upon advice his Father had given him as a  young man. His Father followed this advice throughout his own 99 year life,  and as Mr. Dawson states, &quot;between my Father and I it worked for over  200 years&quot;.<br />This is an astonishing story of a man who lived every  year of the 20th century, a bit of the 19th, and is now exploring the  21st.<br />The book tells a story that is remarkable, as the story it shares  is of a life that has taken part in 3 centuries.<br />A book that will make  your all-time favorite list!e story it shares  is of a life that has taken part in 3 centuries.<br />A book that will make  your all-time favorite list!	2000-03-13
2600994:US	53047425	R3T6EABOMILK5E	0471357111	432465957	Making the Cisco Connection: The Story Behind the Real Internet Superpower	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Informative, Concise, No Silicon-Valley Tabloid Nonsense	Doing justice to what today is a $452 billion dollar company, is fundamentally a challenge, to do so in such a brief book is outstanding.<br />In the short time since this book was written, Cisco has  passed the landmark of a 300 billion dollar Market Capitilization, as  mentioned in the book, and raced right through $400 billion and even $450  billion. It is now the 2nd most valuable company in the world, second only  to Microsoft, and is seriously being spoken of as a rival to Microsoft for  reaching the level of 1 Trillion Dollars of Market Capitalization. If the  rates of value increase as they historically have, Cisco wins.<br />This book  has technical detail, but is not overly burdened so as to discourage anyone  interested in Cisco's Story.<br />The book gives a clear overview of the  company's history, the CEO'S who have run the company to date, and the  vision of the Current CEO Mr. Chambers. Cisco has an astonishing record of  absorbing 61 companies, the last time I saw a number listed, and they do so  with more success than any company in History. The retention of top  executives and the staff of the companies acquired, exceeds any other  industry benchmarks.<br />Even if you have no interest in the technology, the  Management of this Company is extraordinary by any measure, and has been  recognized as such.<br />This work will give you a great deal of knowledge, in  a surprisingly brief book.<br />Truly excellent.	2000-03-10
2603062:US	53047425	R39U6FB1M7H9WF	0375502947	926761267	Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire	Books	5	140	144	N	N	More History This Good And Reading Of Fiction Will Decline	That this book was The Whitbread Award Winner, and a tremendous success in The Duchess Of Devonshire's own country, is no surprise. However as an avid reader of History I was pleasantly surprised at the book's popularity  here.<br />This book was published when the Authoress Foreman was 30 years  old, and was produced while she was even younger. To me this makes this  Biography of Georgiana all the more impressive, as it can, and will stand  with historical works by other writers twice her age and more.<br />I also  believe Ms. Foreman's youth allowed her to bring The Duchess to us as her  peer in age, which allowed more objectivity, and a candid portrayal that  was brutally honest but never derogatory for it's own sake. That this is  the first work of Ms. Foreman's is simply amazing.<br />History has great  moments, but even the most interesting periods of time, or the life of one  extraordinary life can be numbing to read. The Biographies go on forever in  tedious detail that leaves the reader exhausted. Ms. Foreman writes what is  necessary, she uses the space she needs, and the result is a remarkable  amount of information related, in an efficient manner. Not only do we learn  about The Duchess, for additionally Ms. Foreman fills her story with all  manner of events surrounding the Duchess and Europe at large, to convey  even more information.<br />The life of The Duchess must be read to be  appreciated. This woman filled her relatively short life with more  accomplishments, and amassed more influence, that today her life is as  enjoyable and impressive to experience as a reader, as it must have been  exciting to witness 200 years ago.<br />The word Renaissance is used to  describe an individual of multiple talents at which they excel. The word  has no more appropriate person to attach itself to. The Duchess, was there,  did everything, created and set the tenor of society, and did it all to the  absolute extreme. She was not perfect, but she was remarkable. Her exploits  of 2 centuries ago make those of today's public figures rather pale.<br />An  excellent read, a remarkable debut, and hopefully the first in a string of  work that Ms. Foreman will relate.exploits  of 2 centuries ago make those of today's public figures rather pale.<br />An  excellent read, a remarkable debut, and hopefully the first in a string of  work that Ms. Foreman will relate.	2000-03-09
2603428:US	53047425	R2QSPDR62PCJ9D	0385333668	622480769	The Runner	Books	5	25	31	N	N	Reich Strikes Again!	This book is every bit as good as his first, &quot;Numbered Account&quot;, in fact I liked it even more.<br />Mr. Reich does not take the easy way out by using basic Historical fact and fictionalizing the balance of his book. The  result is still Fiction, but researched with a Historian's eye, and some  clever &quot;what if?&quot; scenarios. The result is a hybrid that is truly  interesting and not just entertainment. I believe this allowed him to bring  &quot;The Runner&quot; to readers that is fresh book, even though the main  event it is based upon is not.<br />The book has some nice plot twists, what  makes them so slick, is that they are not so transparent that they reveal  the balance of the book when the first hint appears. When you think you may  have the story line solved, another bit comes along, and Mr. Reich pulls  the carpet from beneath you.<br />Mr. Reich is no one time winner. If this  second effort is any indicator of the future, the next dozen will only  continue his success.<br />Buy it. No regrets.	2000-03-09
2613242:US	53047425	R2U9XPYV8H3CYW	0525945415	900704564	A Slow Burning	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Actually Three And A Half Stars, I Rounded Up.	One third of the way through this story, and I was ready to trash this book. The reasons numbered 2, firstly, the violent murders mentioned on the book jacket would make Hannibal Lechter flinch, and young children  witnessed them both. Secondly, as mentioned on the jacket they were  race-based.<br />Unless an Author truly has a new idea or view on race/racism,  making it a centerpiece for a book is too easy, too clich&eacute;, and has been  done more times than I can remember. This Author clearly can write and tell  a great story. By bringing to the book one of the lowest common  denominators of what is wretched in our Society, he introduced an issue  that I don't think was necessary. Further, the Author brought nothing new  to the discussion. Adding young children was tabloid sensationalism, every  location, slur, and behavior is beyond clich&eacute;. It's like being tied down  and listening to music you hate, repeated incessantly.<br />The High-Tech  Medical aspect was good. The field that is discussed and plays a key role  in the book is real, it's being developed today, and it's not Star Trek  material. But again the same issue mentioned above gets center stage, even  with the techno-wizardly medicine, and it detracts from the story.<br />Trying  to pull all the different threads of this story together, and then trying  to make societal commentary out of it, was a huge task, and it did not work  for me.<br />The book is a well done at times, entertaining at times, and  frustrating because of how good it really could have been. I will buy his  next book. That may sound contradictory, but it really is an indication  that I believe this Author could really spin some great tales.<br />You will  love it, or like it, you won't hate it.	2000-03-01
2614976:US	53047425	R38Q0OZWHOHN2F	1559705116	645229148	The Banyan Tree	Books	5	68	73	N	N	Unicorn Stick And Half A Million Clicks	This is a truly special literary work, a gift from the author who spent 12 years creating it.<br />If you enjoy any of the great authors of fiction from the 19th and early 20th century you will love the book.<br />Mr. Nolan won The  Whitbread Award in 1987, for the work he penned prior to this one,  &quot;Under The Eye Of The Clock&quot;.<br />If you enjoy rich enveloping  detail that never is tedious, the book is for you. If you enjoy the scope  of a work that takes the needed time, that brings to mind the word  &quot;epic&quot;, and the phrase &quot;sure to be a classic&quot;, get this  book.<br />If you are new to his work as am I, you are probably the rule  rather than the exception. The last work published by Mr. Nolan was in  1987, and this new work took 12 years. And this leads to the title of this  review.<br />Mr. Nolan is paralyzed and he is mute. He cannot read aloud what  he has crafted so as to hear his prose as he means it to be heard. Mr.  Nolan has what is called his &quot;Unicorn Stick&quot;, attached to his  forehead and with the assistance of a helper; he types his works one letter  at a time.<br />&quot;The Banyan Tree&quot; required 500,000 taps on his  typewriter over a 12-year period. The book is a remarkable work by any  standard, and is made more astonishing by the method he uses to communicate  this tale of a Family's History.<br />The book deserves your full attention,  and a bit more time to read. Rushing through the story would lessen the  impact of it, and fail to acknowledge the extraordinary effort it took to  create.	2000-02-29
2630243:US	53047425	R2CA0W1KFG2EJM	006019197X	375391184	Pilgrim	Books	4	36	39	N	N	If It Doesn't Reach Best Seller Lists Blame The Book Jacket	&quot;The Pilgrim&quot; is my introduction to the work of Mr. Timothy Findley. One of the joys of reading is when the reader finds a new author, at least new for the reader, and a whole new body of work can be read and  looked forward to.<br />My Reason for the Review's Title is this, I picked up,  read, and then put this book back many times before finally purchasing it.  What gave me pause was the idea that without a strong working knowledge of  Carl Jung this book could not be enjoyed or understood. Happily I was  wrong.<br />If your knowledge of Carl Jung is nearly nil, you will still love  this book. If you are extremely knowledgeable about him, this will add to  or subtract from the book as you judge how he is portrayed. In either  instance, the book can be enjoyed by anyone who appreciates a great story  begat by a wordsmith, a master craftsman. The book is not a  &quot;light&quot; read, but neither is it a daunting one. It requires a bit  of thought, which only adds to the experience.<br />The following is not in  the book, but I kept this in mind when reading and found it helpful.  Whether it brought me where the Author intended I couldn't say, but for me  it worked.<br />&quot;Time&quot; is literally meaningless as it is a construct  of Man. It is a reference point that was created for our convenience. What  our watches and calendars tell us is only what we have programmed them to  say, and we have changed the guidelines several times throughout Human  History.<br />I offer the thought only as I found it helpful, I could be way  off base.<br />In any event, a splendid story, a gifted Author, a book you  will enjoy, just skip the book jacket.	2000-02-17
2635233:US	53047425	R1FL9QGNFY1SCL	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Floridian Pulp Fiction	I have to qualify my comments, as this is the first book that I have read by Mr. Hiaasen. His more frequent readers seem to cover the spectrum of loving the book, or feeling it is not up to the usual level this Author  produces.<br />There were parts in this book that left me in pain from  laughter. Some was just great humour, some is dark, but is wickedly funny,  hence the title of my review.<br />The characters in this book together with  the plot line would provide Quentin Tarantino with all the material he  would need for a movie. Some of this story is sordid, but you still laugh,  the players reach new levels of bizzare behavior, but they were believable,  scary and strange, maybe psychotic, but it was a very readable book.<br />I am  intrigued enough by this book that I will either buy the next, or read some  of his earlier work. I really don't know what I would compare this to,  maybe a satire by Christopher Buckley written with homicidal  rage.<br />Interesting literary ride.	2000-02-14
2637090:US	53047425	R37ZFB3O72ZQ80	0525945245	976247392	The Debt : What America Owes to Blacks	Books	5	68	106	N	N	Debate This Man And His Ideas At Your Peril.	I began my life with all the advantages; I am white, I am male, and I came from a great set of Parents who believed in, and provided the means for my education.<br /> By most measures I would be labeled a Conservative. This book is not about meaningless reference points that group individuals. Mr. Robinson makes an eloquent, articulate argument that I would love to see anyone debate him on its merits. I believe the challenger would emerge more composed if they walked through a spinning propeller, than to debate that the factual history and it's attendant atrocities, need not be addressed, and then amends made.<br /> My Father served in World War II and the Korean War. His service deserves all the respect his actions command. That service is irrelevant to this issue.<br /> My ancestors came over after the slaves were &quot;FREED&quot;. This defense is not only pitiful and pathetic, but also specious as the concept of giving that which you have no right to posess is arrogant, it is an abomination.<br /> This book did not offend me; I would gladly designate my tax dollars to making a gesture to the black community, which has systematically been destroyed by White America. I do not believe the black community can ever be compensated for the victimization they were/are subjected to. Whether or not my ancestors participated in The Slave Trade is meaningless.  Just as every child born today is instantly burdened by the National Debt of this Country, we who are here today must deal with the disaster that is The US History to destroy black history, culture, and Family.<br /> I do not suffer from &quot;White Guilt&quot;. I am enraged at the level of hypocrisy that our children are taught. The fictional history, as revisionist is too mild.<br /> Read the Declaration of Independence. It was written by and for White, Male, Land-Owning, Moneyed, and in case of the majority of those who signed it, guaranteed their &quot;right&quot; to own, to use as currency, to rape, to kill, to torture, and to do whatever else amused them, with their human property.<br /> How can you stand as a white person inside the Jefferson Memorial and feel anything other than rage if you are alone, or shame if you stand with one of his victims, in front of the larger than life statue of one of the Country's greatest hypocrites. And don't raise your eyes, as the walls have all those words, the words that denied rights to, slaves, non-whites, poor whites, women, and children.<br /> We hold these rights to be self-evident that all white male land/slave-holding men are falsely elevated to their self-serving equality. That the pursuit of their happiness and wealth is unrestrained by any morality other than that which is convenient and expedient.<br /> Washington, Jefferson, The Young Turks Who Perpetrated the Armenian Genocide, Lenin, Stalin, Pol Pot who butchered Cambodians by the millions, Hitler's Holocaust, what a bunch of Founding Father Role Models!<br /> The Genocide that took place during the centuries of slavery is the greatest mass murder in History. The US is not alone in its responsibility.  However being the richest most powerful nation on Earth, we have responsibilities.  They are enormous, the solution boggles the mind. But if there is a Country that can do it, it is ours. All it requires is honesty about our History and the Will/Character to do what is right.<br /> Mr. Robinson, my email address is above, I would be honored to be a part of your quest...torture, and to do whatever else amused them, with their human property.<br /> How can you stand as a white person inside the Jefferson Memorial and feel anything other than rage if you are alone, or shame if you stand with one of his victims, in front of the larger than life statue of one of the Country's greatest hypocrites. And don't raise your eyes, as the walls have all those words, the words that denied rights to, slaves, non-whites, poor whites, women, and children.<br /> We hold these rights to be self-evident that all white male land/slave-holding men are falsely elevated to their self-serving equality. That the pursuit of their happiness and wealth is unrestrained by any morality other than that which is convenient and expedient.<br /> Washington, Jefferson, The Young Turks Who Perpetrated the Armenian Genocide, Lenin, Stalin, Pol Pot who butchered Cambodians by the millions, Hitler's Holocaust, what a bunch of Founding Father Role Models!<br /> The Genocide that took place during the centuries of slavery is the greatest mass murder in History. The US is not alone in its responsibility.  However being the richest most powerful nation on Earth, we have responsibilities.  They are enormous, the solution boggles the mind. But if there is a Country that can do it, it is ours. All it requires is honesty about our History and the Will/Character to do what is right.<br /> Mr. Robinson, my email address is above, I would be honored to be a part of your quest...	2000-02-12
2638681:US	53047425	R4ETSXBLPTCKQ	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	5	59	66	N	N	Look For This Book When This Year's Awards Are Distributed.	I generally dislike comparing the work of one Author with that of another. But as this is the debut of Mr. David Liss, a reference point or two may be of help.<br />If the writing of Mr. Charles Palliser is to your liking, or  that of Mr. Iain Pears, or perhaps Ms. Tracy Chevalier, this book will earn  its place on the same shelf.<br />The book is excellent, and although its  story occupies a time that is not unfamiliar, Mr. Liss has brought a style  that is his own. His characters have depth, they do not imitate others  drawn in another's book.<br />The dialogue is well constructed, reads  naturally, and together with the narration Mr. Liss and company lead you  through a labyrinth of a plot, tempt you with false leads, and pull the  carpet out just as you thought you were drawing together the threads. Not a  chance, the Author anticipates the reader's moves, and misleads and  deceives through a truly wonderful tale!<br />History, twistery, truth, lies,  or mystery? It is all here, brilliantly written by a Novelist that is  destined for many great books that I look forward to.<br />Outstanding!	2000-02-11
2640017:US	53047425	R3BP8IDUA0GX5V	0898866995	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Every Detail Redefines The Concept Of Incredible.	One superlative comment that needs to be made is related to the book, and those who put it together. I don't believe that a more dignified, respectful documentation could have been done.<br />What/who was found, and  the conduct of those who accomplished this trek is beyond reproach. This  easily could have been a sensationalist, tabloid bit of exploitation, but  there is none at all. The respect extended to Sir Edmund Hillary and  Tenzing Norgay, not once was a word uttered that detracted from them as  people, nor what they accomplished.<br />The book itself is extremely well  finished, photography is superb, and this book deserves to be displayed,  not just consigned to a shelf.<br />I don't know how Mr. Mallory and Mr.  Irvine even made it 10% of the way up Everest. There are few, if any  persons, who would venture outside to ski or shovel the driveway wearing  only what these men wore. I have read of many contemporary climbs, and the  contrast to what is used today as compared to what was used in 1924, makes  these climbers all the more remarkable.<br />I have read all the books on  Everest I have come across. This book is without peer, it stands as a  memorial to two of the bravest of men, and a testament to those who sought  to solve the mystery of their deaths, and did so in a manner that defines  true professionals, and for lack of a better word, class.	2000-02-10
2644124:US	53047425	R5P17ZIE829SP	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Turn The Pages Carefully And Slowly	That the pages be turned slowly is important, as this is much briefer than previous books, carefully, because if 2 pages stick together you could literally miss an entire appearance of a long time mainstay of the Star  Wars History.<br />The additional time spent on the organic weaponry of The  Yuuzhan Vong, is brilliant. I don't know where the credit should be given,  but whether from one author, a collaboration, or Mr. Lucas, this part of  the new series I find fascinating.<br />This book opens a variety of issues  that are going to need to be resolved. To the extent these details are  shared, I believe the reader can get a better idea of where this whole new  series that started with Vector Prime may be heading. The book resolves  very little if anything, and really sets the stage for a variety of future  plot lines.<br />Additionally it strongly reinforces the mood that Vector  Prime began. This is a more violent, more graphically depicted part of the  Star Wars Saga. It also introduces conflict where you would least expect  it, on issues as basic as what a Jedi Knight was, is, or should be.<br />So  far these two books offer no moments that are light, the whole experience  is burdensome, painful.<br />The quality in this new series is present and  abundant, the issue is making the adjustment from the previous mood that  was Star Wars, to the new experience it has become.<br />Other than the  brevity I have one complaint that may be considered nit picking, but I  believe Star Wars Fans tend to be demanding, and I am glad they are. The  artwork on the book is weak. I don't like the style and unlike Vector Prime  it is almost generic.<br />When Chewbacca was portrayed as a constellation on  the Vector Prime Cover, you either knew something was coming, or after the  reading was through, the image on the book was exceptional, regardless of  whether or not you cared for the storyline.<br />My complaint is hardly large,  as I would read these books if they had blank covers. Since there has been  such outstanding artwork, i.e. Dave Dorman, I have come to expect it, so it  was glaringly missed this time around.<br />The book is very well done, and  the shortcomings like the length are minor, all in all buy it.<br />Just take  your time reading it!overs. Since there has been  such outstanding artwork, i.e. Dave Dorman, I have come to expect it, so it  was glaringly missed this time around.<br />The book is very well done, and  the shortcomings like the length are minor, all in all buy it.<br />Just take  your time reading it!	2000-02-07
2645712:US	53047425	R3GSQXHKTVO0PN	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	22	27	N	N	The Sounds Of Books Pearl And Fur	I could hear rich carpets in their voices, books and pearls and fur&quot;. When you come across that sentence on page 1 paragraph 2 the stage is set,  and on it is the treasure that is this book, by Ms. Tracy Chevalier. The  protagonist Griet speaks the words, and they set the tone for a beautifully  crafted piece of literature. The writing is elegant, there is no pretense,  and in one instant at the end, the Author had Griet doing something that I  was hoping would happen from early in the book. It was a bonus, as the book  in its entirety was excellent.<br />Whether or not you are familiar with the  work of Vermeer will not hamper the reading of the book. I took the advice  of another reviewer, but I chose to view the paintings after the book was  read. I was familiar with certain of his pieces, but I enjoyed viewing  those discussed in the book after Ms. Chevalier had painted them in my  mind's eye. It was like a visual sequel to the book. This is the type of  book I would happily have read were it 2 or 3 times its length. However the  Authoress delivers a wonderful story with the words she needs, no more, no  less. The illusion of having read a much longer work is a tribute to her as  a writer.<br />Buy it, no regrets here.	2000-02-06
2648199:US	53047425	R358G87T2F59FQ	0684867192	792974017	Scandalmonger: A Novel	Books	5	139	146	N	N	History Twistery Lies Truth Or Mysteries?	Twistery is the word used by the Author, William Safire, to qualify where he strayed from known facts. He provides a detailed explanation at the end so there is no confusion. It is impossible for me to judge, but I am confident that to the extent he twisted known history, it is a small part  of this book. If he had stayed absolutely faithful to facts as they are  known, but continued the novel-like style, as opposed to dry recitation of  fact like many textbooks do, the book would be diminished just a bit.<br />The  Players are not new, nor are the stories. Mr. Safire's gift is his ability  to transform what can often be the tedious study of dates and facts, into a  thrilling read. If he were to write textbooks, without literary license,  the study of our Country's History would reach new levels of  popularity.<br />Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, Aaron Burr, Alexander Hamilton,  James Madison, James Monroe, Dr. Benjamin Rush, all old and familiar, but  all new here. Duels, stolen letters, written admissions of guilt,  peculation, and pecadillos, these bits are all true. The Alien and Sedition  act, one of the most notorious pieces of legislation in our Country's  History plays a prominent role. Add then murder, wrongful imprisonment,  treason, and trials with &quot;The Hanging Judge&quot; Samuel Chase.<br />And  to bring the story into the present, the analyses of certain persons DNA to  at once settle 200-year-old questions/accusations. Or do they not?<br />It may  sound strange to say that I don't want to give any of the book's stories  away, for how can you give away what is historical fact? But with or  without the twistery, the book makes old information fresh, and shows that  our elected officials today, and the press that follow their every breath  have changed oh so little.<br />Buy it, you'll love it!	2000-02-04
2652112:US	53047425	R3VQ0RFTERRN8K	0312253974	319074580	Lazarus and the Hurricane: The Freeing of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter	Books	4	58	65	N	N	A Nice Complimentary Read To &quot;The Hurricane&quot;	If you have already completed &quot;Hurricane: The Miraculous Journey Of Rubin Carter&quot; by James S. Hirsch, PLEASE do not let that stop you from reading this book as well. I read the newer book first, and I look forward to finding a copy of &quot;The Sixteenth Round&quot; by Mr.  Carter.<br />Friday January 21, 2000, Larry King hosted the following group on  his show; Rubin Carter, Lesra Martin, Denzel Washington, Judge Sarokin,  Former Talk-Show Host Michael Douglas, and Attorney Gerry Spence. It was a  tremendous show, and if you missed it, find out when it will be run again,  you will not be disappointed.<br />One of the issues they all agreed upon was  that 2 hours of film couldn't tell a life story. I recommend this book on  the same theory. I also have seen the movie, and recommend it as well. I  wrote extensively on the previous book but there are a couple of points  this book noted that ranged from interesting to the pathetic. Lesra's  Father was the Lead Singer for the group The Del Vikings when they  performed on The Ed Sullivan show many years ago. The &quot;Canadians&quot;  at Rubin's request, and with his help, were instrumental in having the case  of, Sam Leslie &quot;The Rose&quot;, overturned as well. Lesra graduated  with honors from The University Of Toronto, went on to earn his Master's  Degree, and then his license to practice law in 1997. There have been  comments made about the &quot;Canadians&quot; that are less than  flattering, and I claim no special knowledge, but some of the facts are  these. They brought Lesra along to where he is today, and he certainly  worked very hard for all he accomplished. There were 2 additional young  people the Canadians helped, Walter a friend of Lesra's, and a young woman  from England who had moved to Toronto. They dedicated themselves  financially, and a great number of years of their own lives to a man that  Lesra discovered in a book. So what faults they may have would have to be  rather monumental to seriously detract from what good they have repeatedly  done. Lesra had one brother that was murdered, and another that is in and  out of jail. Where would they be if the Canadians or someone else had  helped them?<br />As to this issue of &quot;Black English&quot;; as offensive  as some might find that characterization to be, what about the attempt to  teach &quot;Ebonics&quot; in this Country?<br />Gerry Spence recently  completed a case where 4 men spent 18 years in prison for a crime they did  not commit. One of the men was to be executed, and today January 31, the  Governor of Illinois has suspended all executions until reviews are  conducted. Gerry Spence got them some walking around money at $9,000,000  each. They will never see that as the appeals courts will knock those  numbers to a fraction of what the jury awarded.<br />Rubin Carter and John  Artis got $0.00. To be more precise Mr. Carter received just under  $3,000.00 almost 10 years after having been wrongfully interred in the  Vroom house of horrors.<br />On Larry King's show, Judge Sarokin said the  &quot;Habeas Corpus&quot; laws have been changed so that he would not have  gotten Mr. Carter's case; and even if he had, it would be overturned, Rubin  would still be in prison.<br />After Judge Sarokin made his ruling, New Jersey  was not satisfied until they were shot down 14 additional times, in a  variety of courts because their case had remained what it always had been,  garbage.<br />Pathetic is not strong enough, but it is comforting to know that  when asked about the upcoming movie, Sheriff Edwin J. Englehardt kept up  the party line of those involved in New Jersey. Some of his pearls of  wisdom were/are, Carter was set free &quot;because of a technicality&quot;,  the fact he was set free was &quot;a disgrace to the system&quot;, and the  real gems, &quot;If the movie makes any money, the state should charge  Carter $77 a day for the 20 years of free room and board he got while in  prison&quot;, and &quot;If I could do something to destroy the movie, I  would&quot;. These statements were made within the past year, comforting  are they not?<br />We hold these truths to be self-evident, that ALL men are  created equal............one of the greatest series of typos ever. Please note the  Author of the document to which I refer bought, sold, and settled debts  with slaves, as did The Father Of Our Country, as did the majority of those  men who signed said document. Don't take my word, look it up.<br />We live in  the greatest Country. Greatest and perfect are not the same.nd &quot;If I could do something to destroy the movie, I  would&quot;. These statements were made within the past year, comforting  are they not?<br />We hold these truths to be self-evident, that ALL men are  created equal............one of the greatest series of typos ever. Please note the  Author of the document to which I refer bought, sold, and settled debts  with slaves, as did The Father Of Our Country, as did the majority of those  men who signed said document. Don't take my word, look it up.<br />We live in  the greatest Country. Greatest and perfect are not the same.	2000-02-01
2652516:US	53047425	R1RVKBXHUI43QP	0671016733	32341152	Fork in the Road	Books	2	9	13	N	N	2 Stars As Writing And Getting Published Is Not Easily Done	&quot;Too little has been written about the world of Irish travelers...&quot; Denis Hamill, The Book's Author.<br />An author who I greatly admire endorsed this book, and that is why I picked it up. This was the second time such an endorsement caused me to purchase an Author unknown to  me. I should have known better, the first was quite good, this volume is  many things, but don't wait for it to hit any bestseller list for 50% off,  it will never happen.<br />Mr. Hamill may be correct about the amount of  writing that has been done on these people, better known as  &quot;Tinkers&quot; to many. If this is the only manner by which they may  be brought to the world's attention, I hope that neither they nor another  group gain this type of exposure.<br />This is 480 pages of a plot that would  be difficult to successfully carry off by any writer. This book was noted  as a departure for the Author, and perhaps that explains the caliber of  this book. This book is filled with more meaningless obscenities both  spoken and written, that the reader will either become numb to it, if they  slog through to the end, or put the book down unfinished, which is  probable. The Editorial Review that appears above is the inside of the dust  jacket, word for word. No critics have reviewed this work, so while I may  be negative, I am the only one who has read the work on this page at  present. That's not arrogance; I just want you to be sure this is where you  want to spend your time and money.<br />As I said the plot was not an easy one  to make believable, and in this case it is just absurd. The Protagonist of  this book would never deal with what he puts with, I cannot think of even  another fictional character that would.<br />Bad premise, language so foul and  excessively used that it becomes pointless, side trips in the novel that  have nothing to do with the balance of the story, and the morality lessons  that are tried for at the end are so implausible they would be funny if not  for the time I spent reading all that lead up to them.<br />I love to read; I  do not expect to love all that I sit down with. This is a reading  experience that asks you to get over being angry about the time you spent  reading it, and just concentrate on the money that could have gone  elsewhere. If you cannot move on to the financial aspect, you will more  upset that even I.<br />Perhaps the books this Author normally produces are  written at an altogether different level. This is the only work of the  Author's that I have read, and I will not be waiting for the next one.for the time I spent reading all that lead up to them.<br />I love to read; I  do not expect to love all that I sit down with. This is a reading  experience that asks you to get over being angry about the time you spent  reading it, and just concentrate on the money that could have gone  elsewhere. If you cannot move on to the financial aspect, you will more  upset that even I.<br />Perhaps the books this Author normally produces are  written at an altogether different level. This is the only work of the  Author's that I have read, and I will not be waiting for the next one.	2000-02-01
2653766:US	53047425	R2NPEU9CH41ZOC	0374226385	289107622	On the Rez	Books	5	59	65	N	N	Don't Let The Title Fool You.	It's true this book has witty remarks, but humor is a very small part of this brilliant work. This book is very difficult to read without being deeply affected by Mr. Frazier's words.<br />Mr. Frazier accomplishes what I  find remarkable. He clearly is a great admirer of the tribes and individual  members he writes of, but he also is brutally candid about these people who  are his friends. The remarkable part is that you never sense he is judging  their behavior, nor is he an apologist. He deftly mixes the history of this  Country with a variety of Tribal Nations, and shows you the results. He  destroys many misconceptions that exist, and makes very intuitive remarks  about the future they may await these people.<br />If you have not already  done so, I believe this book will act as a catalyst to read more about the  history of these remarkable people, the opportunities that were lost, the  crimes that were committed and are being addressed in Congress right  now.<br />I live in the state that has the largest of the Casinos that many  feel are providing all manner of solutions to a variety of tribes. The  facts about these Casinos are a far cry from the perceptions that many  people hold.<br />Wounded Knee and The Trail of Tears are not just words that  make up titles of books. These places and events, the Presidents that  governed at the time, and the President who sanctioned the largest mass  execution in this Country's History will, in at least one instance shock  you. I say, at least one, as one President's attitude is in keeping with  his life-long conduct.<br />These Peoples were not exterminated, or to use the  official Federal Government's word, &quot;Terminated&quot;. They survived,  and their numbers continue to grow, which alone is astonishing.<br />Enjoy  reading about what a hero/heroine really is? Mr. Frazier brings the story  of SuAnne Marie Big Crow to the reader, and when he is finished, you will  be emotionally drained. You will be challenged to read the story through to  its end. The Author does not discuss this young woman until page 200 of a  279-page book, why? The answer is I don't know, my opinion is, the story  was that difficult for him to relate to his readers. The story is powerful  enough to have been it's own book, and it some day may be. He introduces  the subject as follows &quot;Reader, books are long, and I know that even  the faithful reader tires. But I hope a few of you are still with me here.  As much as I have wanted to tell anything, I wanted to tell you about  SueAnne&quot;. The Author need not worry, I would imagine the few who do  not complete this book would be small, and if they do cease, they will have  denied themselves something very special.<br />One of the most powerful books  I have read.ad the story through to  its end. The Author does not discuss this young woman until page 200 of a  279-page book, why? The answer is I don't know, my opinion is, the story  was that difficult for him to relate to his readers. The story is powerful  enough to have been it's own book, and it some day may be. He introduces  the subject as follows &quot;Reader, books are long, and I know that even  the faithful reader tires. But I hope a few of you are still with me here.  As much as I have wanted to tell anything, I wanted to tell you about  SueAnne&quot;. The Author need not worry, I would imagine the few who do  not complete this book would be small, and if they do cease, they will have  denied themselves something very special.<br />One of the most powerful books  I have read.	2000-01-31
2661449:US	53047425	R1YV5BV4ML1VT3	0871137534	441036137	The Dress Lodger	Books	4	71	78	N	N	Would Scare The Dickens Out Of Charles D.!	Dickensian, or so and so meets Dickens, is probably a publicist at work. This authoress writes in a style that is her own, so if a label is to be attached how about &quot;Holmanian&quot;. That this books take place in the 19th century does not require a comparison to Charles Dickens, Wilkie  Collins, or Anthony Trollope. If her next book takes place in the 21st  century will she be compared to Isimov?<br />This book is well written; an  interesting tale, some history, and I would happily have read it were it  twice as long. This Authoress's very harsh, foul, and all 5 sense offending  England, makes many descriptions that others have written, descriptive of a  city that while not perfect, is tolerable, and tolerated.<br />This book rubs  the reader raw, nothing is embellished, think of something that you fear,  and then imagine it has been brought to the page with a beautiful turn of  phrase. This Authoress writes what other authors, and other readers may  have been thinking. Many have mentioned topics in the book in their  reviews, if they make you shift a bit in your seat, Sheri Holman will keep  you there as going to bed and dreaming of her characters would be  exponentially more frightening.<br />I enjoyed the book enough to go and  pursue her first, and subsequent works will be added to my reading as  well.<br />Good read, you would not be disappointed, just a bit unnerved.	2000-01-26
2668934:US	53047425	R3VFEIDH60TV8	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	4	14	16	N	N	It's Gives The Reader No Quarter, No Personal Space.	The 220 pages that are this book are incredibly rich, and asone other reviewer has mentioned, a second reading isrewarding.<br />This story is beautifully constructed with layer upon layer of thoughts, customs, and societal structure and dysfunction. It deals with the conduct of Mothers, Daughters, or in the case of the Father and others, misconduct spanning from bad judgment to the reprehensible.<br />This book is uncomfortable to read. The cover itself shows the title, which by its size appears to want to hide itself, it forewarns of what waits inside. The Author goes into very dark places and writes brutally about relationships between men and women that are, in the case of The Professor perverse in the extreme. He makes the reader deal with violence inflicted by The Professor, and while there may not be a dead body as a result, his actions are violent, they nauseate. Even as he deals with the consequences of his prior actions, he does not hesitate to engage in a Pedophile Fantasy &quot;fit for a king&quot;.<br />The Professor then is made a victim personally, and targeted again through his Daughter's experience. Further he must deal with her reactions to what was done to her. Are they illogical to him, or any man? Her experience becomes a tax, a form of retribution from the victims of Apartheid. She chooses to seemingly take on the role of a martyr who is assaulted for Apartheid's sins. Is this the way she chooses to cope? She could almost be called a physical bridge to the South Africa that is to come. Not as a role model, but for what she literally bears.<br />There are 2 reasons that kept me from a five star rating. The first is that I am tired of books that end in the midst of nowhere, even if a period is used. This book kicks open a host of darkness; it does not need the overused literary device of suspended animation, that is to serve as an end. The concept is an oxymoron, if you allow me the stretch, and it is annoying when it is used as it was in this book. There are times when this can work, there are other times I think an Author cannot unwind the balance of the tale, so it is severed, ambiguously aborted.<br />My second reason is The Professor's action or lack thereof when he becomes aware of the knowledge his neighbor has. It would take a Saint, which this man is light years away from being, to react as he does. I found it implausible and absurd.<br />This book provokes as is evidenced by the reactions it has generated. It invades the reader's privacy, there is no quarter given for the reader's personal space, it is thought provoking, it accuses, and it does not stop when the book is set down. And for these reasons I believe the book to be an important work. I cannot comment on it's context within South Africa, but don't think for a moment the locale could not be easily changed. The issues, the offences against a person and a people are unfortunately universal.<br />This book will move you, it offers no choice.ok. There are times when this can work, there are other times I think an Author cannot unwind the balance of the tale, so it is severed, ambiguously aborted.<br />My second reason is The Professor's action or lack thereof when he becomes aware of the knowledge his neighbor has. It would take a Saint, which this man is light years away from being, to react as he does. I found it implausible and absurd.<br />This book provokes as is evidenced by the reactions it has generated. It invades the reader's privacy, there is no quarter given for the reader's personal space, it is thought provoking, it accuses, and it does not stop when the book is set down. And for these reasons I believe the book to be an important work. I cannot comment on it's context within South Africa, but don't think for a moment the locale could not be easily changed. The issues, the offences against a person and a people are unfortunately universal.<br />This book will move you, it offers no choice.	2000-01-21
2677639:US	53047425	R3NMUFUJHY6N43	0446520659	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Entertaining, if flawed.	First time for me with Mr. Demille, and I found his style refreshing. Tom Clancy, Robert Ludlum, John LeCarre, Dale Brown, and Stephen Coonts, to name a few, have all brought readers memorable tales through their  books.<br />Sustaining a reader's interest for 677 pages is not easily done,  and Mr. Demille managed this without my ever wondering will this ever end.  The part I was unprepared for was the humor in the book. I have read a  number of books in this genre, and I do not ever remember laughing out  loud, and nearly to the level of pain from some of the dialogue of John and  Kate. Fair warning, the humor is not politically correct. If you can laugh  at Irish jokes with a last name like mine, or Polish, and Italian to  mention a few, the book will have you gasping for air at times. If on the  other hand you are a Muslim, and Arab, don't touch this book for it will  offend.<br />This was one of two problems I had with the book. I believe  politically correct-speak is nonsense. Well before this spin-doctor speech  invaded our language, the area was already covered by one word, and that  was and is respect. I am not claiming it was practiced enough, but when  implemented without malice, describing someone as short was not a  pejorative, &quot;vertically challenged&quot; is a mockery of language. I  do think Mr. Demille went a bit far with the comments about the religion of  Muslims, Arab culture etc. I also believe he was aware of this as he tried  to be sensitive to it, with attempts along the way to describe some  misconceptions about The Muslim Faith and it's customs/culture.<br />While  John constantly spews out ethnic slurs, the terrorist's speech is almost  benign by comparison, not his actions, his speech. This is a well-crafted  tale that did not need to reinforce stereotypes, to be a great read. And no  I don't believe Mr. Demille should change his writing style to suit me,  however I do believe it is a valid observation.<br />Problem number two was  the ending. It has been referred to by other reviews as weak, I would  agree. In addition it was so vague, that if read carefully there are  several endings that are plausible. And unless I know before I buy a book,  I expect the whole story. If you are that good of a writer, whether or not  the situations will carry themselves into the future should be of no  concern. Mr. Demille certainly has a history of success.<br />Sorry, one more  complaint. Why is this book, as well as others, becoming like the movies?  Can a book be written without product endorsements? And if an author wants  to destroy the fictional world he has brought you into, having the main  character review a movie of a previous novel by the author is absurd. But I  did enjoy the tale, well paced, crafted, and a great female co-star.ending. It has been referred to by other reviews as weak, I would  agree. In addition it was so vague, that if read carefully there are  several endings that are plausible. And unless I know before I buy a book,  I expect the whole story. If you are that good of a writer, whether or not  the situations will carry themselves into the future should be of no  concern. Mr. Demille certainly has a history of success.<br />Sorry, one more  complaint. Why is this book, as well as others, becoming like the movies?  Can a book be written without product endorsements? And if an author wants  to destroy the fictional world he has brought you into, having the main  character review a movie of a previous novel by the author is absurd. But I  did enjoy the tale, well paced, crafted, and a great female co-star.	2000-01-14
2691080:US	53047425	R1OS9VWYZ5K5S9	0395979854	304267562	Hurricane: The Miraculous Journey of Rubin Carter	Books	5	209	218	N	N	&quot;Any Two Will Do?&quot;	This is a wonderfully crafted book about one of the most insidious evils with which we still struggle, about 2 men who had their lives taken from them, and extraordinary people who made freedom for Mr. Carter their full  time passion.<br />The quote of this review is still pathetically true; the  statement refers to &quot;we are looking for two Negroes&quot;. This story  is not unique; it's tempting to say it's not unusual, but that would be  letting the cynics win, and Mr. Carter never allowed that to infect him.  And many of the historical clich&eacute;s just won't work with this  story.<br />Racism in the South or Deep South? no, New Jersey.<br />Southern  Klan? no, Northeast Yankees.<br />Takes place before The Civil Rights Acts,  before we were supposed to be evolving as people and citizens? no, Mr.  Carter gained his freedom when he finally was legally exonerated on  February 27, 1988! This was after 2 decades, 140,000 plus pages of  documents, several trials, all generated, pursued, and ended only when the  State Of New Jersey had no legal options left. Only when the State agreed  not to try Mr. Carter a THIRD time, as long as he did not pursue a Civil  Suit against the State! After 21 years of the pursuit of 2 men that were  suspected, arrested, tried, and convicted for the color of their skin, New  Jersey was worried about money!<br />The Author opens the book with a  reference to Mr. Richard Bruno Hauptmann. This man was executed for his  alleged killing/kidnapping of the child of Anne and Charles Lindbergh. Mr.  Hirsch sets this book up brilliantly by mentioning a man who while most  probably involved, was in no way deserving of death, and thought by many to  be a victim, to a much lesser degree perhaps, than Mr. Carter. So the book  opens with Mr. Carter a few cells down from the electric chair upon which  Mr. Hauptman was killed. Wonderfully crafted opening, a clever parallel  sketched if not drawn, and the book goes on and never slows until the  end.<br />Mr. Carter is remarkable. The &quot;Canadians&quot; were unique, as  were Mr. Carter's lawyers. They never quit until they had won, until the  State of New Jersey had run out of options to pursue their case which Judge  Sarokin had at various times called; &quot;...insufferably galling. It is  akin to plucking a man's eyes out and condemning him because he cannot see.  It has consistently been the misconduct of the State, under the color of  law, which has frustrated and prolonged its realization&quot; (it, refers  to the 2 accused and their case which &quot;have never enjoyed a full, fair  and unforced disclosure of the facts to which they have been  constitutionally entitled&quot;.)<br />When Mr. Carter's Father died his  obituary proclaimed him to be the Father of  &quot;a convicted triple  murderer&quot;.<br />Mr. John Artis who was the co-defendant of Mr. Carter, is  another extremely rare type of human being. In all the years, trials,  interrogations, he never, never, ever, cut a deal for himself in exchange  for implicating Mr. Carter. Was this Hurricane Carter a life-long friend, a  good friend, how about they barely knew each other the night of the crime?  Mr. Artis  got a ride home that evening. And Mr. Artis was indirectly  sentenced to death by The State Of New Jersey's persecutors. He contracted  a disease in prison attributable to the conditions he was wrongfully  incarcerated for, and that has cost him 6 amputations of digits and toes,  and will eventually claim his life. This man would not cut a deal for  himself, or harm a man he was a casual acquaintance of, if he was even  that.<br />No one from The State of New Jersey who persecuted these men  suffered, no one was punished for what they had done, and asked if an  apology was owed, Mr. Belsole of the New Jersey State Attorney General's  Office, &quot;believed that amends or apologies would have mocked the  criminal justice system&quot;. Certainly he and everyone involved with the  prosecution/persecution of these men are indeed experts on what mockery,  and mockery of justice is.<br />Mr. Carter's enemies still claim he was  released on a technicality, a charge that Leon Friedman, one of Mr.  Carter's attorneys, responds to with &quot; It was a technicality - it's  called the U.S. Constitution&quot;.ution of these men are indeed experts on what mockery,  and mockery of justice is.<br />Mr. Carter's enemies still claim he was  released on a technicality, a charge that Leon Friedman, one of Mr.  Carter's attorneys, responds to with &quot; It was a technicality - it's  called the U.S. Constitution&quot;.	2000-01-06
2697116:US	53047425	R1JQ0OFSENNJ57	015100496X	730981999	My Century: A Novel	Books	5	37	44	N	N	Nobel Prize Winner Seems To Be Hidden From Readers	I bought this book for all that seemed to be missing. This book won The Nobel Prize in 1999 for Literature, so what was missing? The book jacket had 3 quotes, all were about the author, and nothing was said about the  book. I did not find this work anywhere on any bestseller list. I checked  on the \\"Professional Reviews\\" and again they were odd. They seem to be of  two types; explain nearly the entire book, or like the back of the jacket,  they were confined to cryptic remarks about the Author, and on occasion the  book itself. There is a huge distinction to be made between 100 \\"Chapters\\"  and 100 \\"Stories\\". The inside jacket designates the enclosed as stories,  and I would venture that anyone who reads the book would agree. Some  stories share characters, but the brief tale told with shared characters is  hardly sequential, this is also the exception to the stories rather than  the rule. Historical knowledge of Germany or of the 20th Century is helpful  but not required. The story about the USA landing on the moon while told  from the perspective of a German, and within that narrator's time, does not  require a degree in History. This book is tremendous. The 100 stories  almost do read like chapters in spite of the fact they are not necessarily  in chronological order. Short stories are notoriously difficult to write.  The Author has created 100 of them, placed them within the confines of 100  years, and does so in a manner so clever and subtle, that by book's end, I  felt that is what I read, a book, not a collection of short stories. This  book is wonderful; it can be enjoyed as a historical narrative, or as  brilliant piece of writing. The book is for anyone who likes to read. I  just don't understand the lack of interest. It was noted that only 25,000  books were initially printed, that's virtually identical to Angela's Ashes,  but a comparison of numbers of readers certainly seems to stop there, and  that is truly a shame.	2000-01-02
2700695:US	53047425	RQXZHZ385FYAN	0670888001	288728605	A Positively Final Appearance: A Journal, 1996-1998	Books	5	30	31	N	N	With Sadness, I Believe The Title Of This Book To Be True	Books like this are doubly rare, as they must meet two prerequisites at a minimum. Firstly the Author/Authoress must be in their ninth decade of life, and then they must have the talents at hand to write, and in the case  of \\"A Positively Final Appearance\\", write deftly of a rich life without  pretense or arrogance. Sir Alec Guiness is a legendary actor of stage and  screen. Much to his chagrin the world seems to identify him almost  exclusively as the Jedi Knight Obi Wan Kenobe of The Star Wars Middle  Trilogy. In his previous book \\"My Name Escapes Me\\" he beat upon this topic  almost to bitterness. This time around he shares his reasons why, and my  thoughts of his being a curmudgeon are gone. While stating this is not a  diary or journal, it is akin to the latter and covers the years 1996-1998.  What makes this particular work triply rare is the Author's ability to take  an event of seemingly little or no importance and connect it to a memory or  2 or 5 until it becomes a short story of it's own. These stories know no  boundaries as Mr. Guiness takes the reader with him from thought to thought  and from observation to random event. True there are chapters to the book,  however if removed the experience would not be lessened. The title refers  to a falsehood meant to lure patrons to a show which oftener than not, is  many things but not a final appearance. Mr. Guiness shares thoughts on his  religion, his reaction to the Death of Lady Dianna, his memorable meeting  with Margaret Thatcher, and at least 100 other people of note. An omission  I found very surprising was that he made no mention at all of Mother Teresa  who died on the same day as Lady Dianna. I note this as he regularly speaks  of the importance of his being a Catholic, with the regret that he did not  become so earlier in his life. To omit this event completely seems to  suggest there are strong feelings, but they will remain his. He also speaks  of his Diamond wedding anniversary, his experiences as a soldier, and the  painful process of growing old, \\"the mind gathers more wrinkles than the  skin\\". He shares the story of Mark Taylor who having tied an athletic  record that had stood for 67 years, refused to continue, \\"so as not to  outshine his predecessor\\". When angered the language only reaches the level  of \\"rubbish on stilts\\". A true Gentleman of a time past, and who's like is  quickly becoming a small, small group. The book is in the end a bit sad,  for unlike the title that so often is a charade, I fear this is his final  appearance. Just as he left the stage and screen and never returned, I  believe as he directs the readers to the nearest exit at book's end, he  truly means it. I hope I am wrong, Mr. Guiness is unique, he is a gift, and  hopefully will return with another volume. In truth I fear he will not.a soldier, and the  painful process of growing old, \\"the mind gathers more wrinkles than the  skin\\". He shares the story of Mark Taylor who having tied an athletic  record that had stood for 67 years, refused to continue, \\"so as not to  outshine his predecessor\\". When angered the language only reaches the level  of \\"rubbish on stilts\\". A true Gentleman of a time past, and who's like is  quickly becoming a small, small group. The book is in the end a bit sad,  for unlike the title that so often is a charade, I fear this is his final  appearance. Just as he left the stage and screen and never returned, I  believe as he directs the readers to the nearest exit at book's end, he  truly means it. I hope I am wrong, Mr. Guiness is unique, he is a gift, and  hopefully will return with another volume. In truth I fear he will not.	1999-12-30
2700861:US	53047425	RR0E2AFS2Q7JN	038546973X	253371496	Anne Morrow Lindbergh: A Biography	Books	4	46	60	N	N	10 Stars For Anne Morrow Lindbergh	Anne Morrow Lindbergh was and still is a remarkable woman. This is the third book I have recently read that she was a major part of; firstly it was A. Scott Berg's Pulitzer Prize Winning \\"Lindbergh\\", next was \\"Under A  Wing\\" by the youngest of the Lindbergh children Reeve Lindbergh, and now  this volume by Susan Hertog. While unique understandings of parts of this  book may be interpreted differently by a woman than a man, you do not have  to be female to read this book. Being a Parent is not required nor is being  married. Any combination of these may bring a different perspective, but  none would be definitive. Anne Morrow Lindbergh is amazing for all her  accomplishments as a writer, a pilot, a Mother, and the list goes on. She  also is amazing for having had the ability to spend a life with Charles  Lindbergh, or having only one relationship with another man. Lindbergh's  first crossing of the Atlantic was lucky timing. There were literally other  pilots from France that were lost en route as he was preparing to leave.  Had he never attempted the flight, and the accomplishment had gone to  another man/woman, Anne Morrow may or may not have married, but after  reading these books I believe she would have been a great deal happier as  would her children. She arguably could have achieved all she did and more.  When a Daughter says that when her Father was away she and the Family felt  \\"relief\\", doesn't say much for the man. When the same word is used to  describe her feelings at his death, what kind of \\"Father\\" are we talking  about? Question the quote? read the book by Reeve Lindbergh. A Wife who  states that had he not made the first flight he would probably have \\"pumped  gas at an airport\\", hardly had stars in her eyes all her life. As Susan  Hertog describes in this book, visitors to the Lindbergh's home in England  characterized Lindbergh's method of Fathering as \\"a certain sort of  sadism\\". His first Son was kidnapped. Good Old Looser Lindy constructed an  enclosure for the 18 month old, and directed he be placed in it, during the  winter, and forbid that he be helped or attended to so he could \\"fend for  himself\\". A little early for survivalist training? Does not everyone put  their next son in a pen with a \\"butting Ram\\" and let him learn to defend  himself? These digressions are needed to show that in spite of, and not  because of, \\"The Hero Lindbergh\\" Anne Morrow Lindbergh not only survived  him, but also managed to flourish despite him. Charles was a man of  science, you bet! As long as he was with his racist buddy Alexis Carrel,  creating what the press termed \\"modern Frankensteins\\" on their island.  Carrel was thrown out of The Rockefeller institute because he was a Doctor  only a Nazi could love. I believe the authoress did a good job, but there  were inconsistencies with police photographs regarding the trial (the plank  of wood in reference to the ladder, Susan Hertog claimed matched  \\"perfectly\\", was the wrong length and thickness) that tend to undermine  what I am confident is a 95% accurate book. There is a huge difference  between \\"pardoning\\" a convicted murderer, and \\"commuting\\" a death sentence  to life in prison in exchange for an admission of guilt. Hauptman would not  admit his guilt to save his life, only he knows why. The authoress either  has information other writers did not have or was careless with her words.  There is no footnote for the statement in the book. Mrs. Lindbergh dealt  with this man who was an anti-Semite to everyone who was not a member of  \\"America First\\", it was she who pronounced his award from Hitler \\"an  Albatross\\", while he was clueless as to the fool's role he was playing, and  she had long periods of self doubt and self worth because of how she  measured up to him? Lindbergh the \\"Hero\\" is narrow to be kind, and blatant  revisionist history if accurately described. Anne Morrow was her Father and  Mother's Daughter, and had all that was necessary to be her own success. We  will never know how great, as she had the misfortune to marry, and the  loyalty to stay with this severely flawed, morally impaired individual.  There should be a statue to her, in the place of his.ll never know how great, as she had the misfortune to marry, and the  loyalty to stay with this severely flawed, morally impaired individual.  There should be a statue to her, in the place of his.	1999-12-30
2703384:US	53047425	RSQ2AJHUXPMTT	0385482515	683164590	Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus (Hinges of History)	Books	5	46	56	N	N	For Those Who Believe............For Those Who Do Not	\\"For those who believe in God, no explanation is necessary. For those who do not, no explanation is possible.\\" John LaFarge This is the third in a series, which is great for readers, and I am going to get volume two, as I  never knew \\"How The Irish Saved Civilization\\" was the first volume. The  first volume was wonderful, and yes I may lack a degree of objectivity due  to my last name. However if measured by it's popularity alone, it is a book  that was enjoyed by many. I was a bit skeptical when I read the title due  to its sweeping nature; I thought it was a bit of Irish Hyperbole, which is  many things, but rare tis not. I cannot comment on the second book yet, but  I liked this volume at least as much as the first if not more. Mr. Cahill  has the ability to tread forcefully and authoritatively on thin ice, thin  ice defined here is religion as a topic. It takes a deft mind and one  filled with knowledge and sensitivity to comment, much less write a book,  without alienating someone, or worse hurting someone. If this feat is  possible, I believe Mr. Cahill has come as close as a person can to doing  so. He brings writings and their authors to life, especially with Paul, and  by doing so, the subject of their writings Christ. I thought he did a  tremendous job of demonstrating how certain prayers and stories evolved,  and how Ancient Greek, Hebrew, and Aramaic are not interchangeable, and  that those who bear the responsibility for translating original texts, have  to be extraordinarily good, omit any editorial, and still deal with single  words that can change interpretations no matter how careful a translation  is. English is a long trip from the original writings, and he demonstrates  this without passing judgment. The potential for meanings to become open to  question, when they may have been established as a given, is delicate at  the least, he shows the History, makes his case, and does so with care. In  many instances, even with the linguistic twists, the essence of the meaning  is there, and he is to be given a great deal of credit for his scholarship,  demonstrated through his explanations. He brings in humor but does so  respectfully. In describing the talking statue and its role in the  Apocalypse, as a \\"publicity department for the beast.......... spin doctor... and  media consultant\\", as an image that \\"encourages mass adoration (long before  television or fanzines were thought of).\\" he makes the reading  approachable. He makes the men and women that were the earliest  reporters/recorders of Christ, people that can be understood, not just  frescoes on ceilings, walls, or paintings on massive canvas. An excellent  book, by a talented Author, that should appeal to most if not all. There  are no preconditions required to read, learn, and enjoy this man's writing.  Just as being Irish was not required for volume one.ssence of the meaning  is there, and he is to be given a great deal of credit for his scholarship,  demonstrated through his explanations. He brings in humor but does so  respectfully. In describing the talking statue and its role in the  Apocalypse, as a \\"publicity department for the beast.......... spin doctor... and  media consultant\\", as an image that \\"encourages mass adoration (long before  television or fanzines were thought of).\\" he makes the reading  approachable. He makes the men and women that were the earliest  reporters/recorders of Christ, people that can be understood, not just  frescoes on ceilings, walls, or paintings on massive canvas. An excellent  book, by a talented Author, that should appeal to most if not all. There  are no preconditions required to read, learn, and enjoy this man's writing.  Just as being Irish was not required for volume one.	1999-12-28
2711428:US	53047425	RA17Q5WZ4842L	1891620347	876806466	Sincerely, Andy Rooney	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Take His Comments On The Inside Book Jacket Seriously	Andy Rooney and 60 Minutes are arguably one of the finest hours on television past and present, and I doubt it would fail to make anyone's top 5 list. Mr. Rooney can always be counted on for either a clever, humorous  thought on an issue that generally is a bit offbeat, for example I would  site the time he went on about paperclips, he hates them. There is another  side to Mr. Rooney and that is when he clearly is angered, and while upset,  he is always eloquent and reasoned, as when he spoke of the suicide of Kurt  Cobain. As I mention in the title of this review take the book jacket  seriously. There are letters that are outrageously funny (his  correspondence with the IRS) and others that will leave you with abdominal  pain from laughter. However you rate his warning that he may give offense  to some individuals or groups, the book is more serious than the Mr. Rooney  of television, and he speaks very bluntly about his feelings on topics that  may not gain many new fans, and may lose a few. I hope I am wrong, as his  type of reasoned candor that never rises to that of a zealot is rare. This  is a book by a very principled man who once left CBS rather than compromise  his beliefs, and who was suspended from 60 Minutes for 3 months by  politically correct, cowards. This is not the Andy Rooney that people  parody with the line \\"did you ever wonder?\\". This book is not a humor book  although it contains some very entertaining and funny letters. This is a  serious, and very personal book, and lest anyone doubt his willingness to  share the most personal of thoughts, the letter he writes to his Children  about Religion in general, not a specific branch, is about as personal as  one can get. I fear that his thoughts may be lost as emotions will be  raised quickly, the issue of Religion is always a dangerous one to comment  upon. He had the courage to put these thoughts in a book, they deserve to  be read. I think the collection of letters is very good, and shows a whole  new dimension to this man. As I said, I doubt this book will win many new  friends for him, but he clearly values honesty, and his personal feelings  are not attacks however much his detractors may wish them to be.new dimension to this man. As I said, I doubt this book will win many new  friends for him, but he clearly values honesty, and his personal feelings  are not attacks however much his detractors may wish them to be.	1999-12-21
2715097:US	53047425	R2X957Y01UMPQH	0375503943	190088526	The Greatest Generation Speaks: Letters and Reflections	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Eternal Thanks To Those Living And Those Who Have Died	There is absolutely nothing that is less than superlative about this book. Mr. Brokaw has at once paid tribute to those who do not receive our thanks often enough, and has ensured these men and women and what they gave to us  is never forgotten. I am one of the thirty-something's that were a group  who were felt may not be interested or moved by these stories. It is not  possible to experience every emotion from joy to despair, and finally  horror as this book is read. To those who say we take what we have for  granted, they are, for the most part correct. Over 274,000 men and women  died in WWII alone to preserve what they had then, and then passed to us a  Country that was so loved, that immigrants would arrive here, turn around  and risk and lose their lives for their new home, many times fighting their  original birthplaces! I don't know a stronger way for someone to endorse  this Country. And in the last Presidential Election only 43% of those with  the gift of freedom to choose their leaders bothered to do so. I was  astounded by the men of the \\"Sweet 16\\" who's story I never knew. These men,  these black men, fought for their Country, the same Country that allowed  Prisoners Of War, to use facilities that were denied to them due to the  color of their skin! What is the word for that? Patriotism, not even close.  Read the words of Walter Morris of the \\"Sweet 16\\", and then try not to  place him on a hero's pedestal. \\"Hispanics\\" produced 12 Congressional Medal  of Honor Recipients. Women served at the front lines, and were as exposed  to combat danger as the men. And many of them never came home. Why does it  take a war to create moments, hours, and days, that we do not experience  every day? A Rabbi giving council and comfort to non-Jews, Protestant  Ministers doing the same for a Jewish or a Catholic soldier, a Priest doing  likewise. There is no word in my opinion that can describe the Rabbi that  placed his hand into the \\"Fertilizer\\" that were once Families. Maybe there  would be words if the Holocaust were an entirely unique event, instead of a  recurring event to this day. Hitler referred to the Armenian Genocide  perpetrated by the Turks, and the fact that \\"who remembers?\\" when a general  expressed concern as to how they could possibly carry out such evil as they  had planned for the Jews. Horror, evil, read \\"The Rape of Nanking\\", very  tough to read through. Stalin's slaughter of tens of millions, The Khmer  Rouge slaughter of Cambodians, Hutu And Tutsi of Africa just a few short  years ago, and the \\"Former Yugoslavia\\" with the hideous phrase \\"Ethnic  Cleansing\\" is still not really over. There need be no worry that this  \\"Greatest\\" generation, those that came before and after, and who fought for  their Country will be ever be forgotten. Mr. Brokaw has set in motion a  wave of remembrance, the fact that every day we need realize what we have,  and what we could have lost. A sad revelation is that we who owe what we  have, have allowed the erosion of respect to the point that Veterans must  seek a Constitutional Amendment so the Flag Of The United States, the flag  they fought under and for, should not be allowed to be burned by those  who's ability to express themselves is so impaired that burning a flag is  the best they can do. A mindless, offensive act will always draw attention.  The idea that burning the flag is a freedom is difficult to deny. But what  is worse are the generations who are so bereft of respect, they burn a  symbol that represents the freedom for their hostile behavior. If we all  could understand our History and not just know it as facts of the past,  Flag-Burning would be a non-issue. Democracy is the most demanding form of  citizenship; it is not one that suffers passive or oppressive behavior.  (The words that follow are a mix of quotes, and for that I apologize.)  \\"Democracy is advanced citizenship, it will demand that you stand in rage  and silence, while a fellow citizen advocates something that you would  spend your lifetime resisting\\" Sir Winston Spencer Churchill (half  American) \\"No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed,  it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all  those other forms that have been tried from time to time\\" 11/11/47g that you would  spend your lifetime resisting\\" Sir Winston Spencer Churchill (half  American) \\"No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed,  it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all  those other forms that have been tried from time to time\\" 11/11/47	1999-12-18
2716707:US	53047425	R26YEKIQ6G40L4	0812931866	804704318	The Day Traders: The Untold Story of the Extreme Investors and How They Changed Wall Street Forever	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Finally A Book About This Activity That Has Balance	This is a great book, it does not tell you how to get rich, and it does not tell you that Day Trading is the work of Satan. It gives an excellent concise history about the people who got all individuals the right to trade  on their own, and then with examples, and a helpful glossary of terms,  gives more than enough information for an individual to decide whether this  Extreme Financial Sport is for you. Before reading any other \\"How To Be A  Day Trader\\" book please read this. Mr. Millman uses the word \\"Extreme\\" on  the cover of his book and liberally throughout the volume. I trade on-line,  have real time quotes, Level II NASDAQ, and many of the other trading tools  courtesy of high technology, I do not meet the definition of a Day Trader  as I have never had a 50 trade day much less 300 or 500 or even more trades  in one session. If you think you are ready for this type of trading a quick  calculation may help put Day Trading into perspective. If a person trades  from 9:30am-4:00pm, that person has 390 minutes with which to trade. The  word extreme starts to come into clear focus. One trade per minute, 390  trades, how about a slovenly pace of 3 minutes for making a decision about  your financial status, only 130 decisions need to be made in 6 and one-half  hours. Training course of 30 days with some Pros?, $5,000, if that gives  you any pause don't attempt this sport. Minimum investment to play at some  facilities $50,000 to $100,000, if that gives you any pause stay away. And  if you are not prepared to lose consistently when you start, again stay  away. You can still trade on-line, and be the master of your own universe,  but there is a difference between playing an occasional round of golf and  walking up to Tiger Woods throwing down $50,000 and say \\"You first Mr.  Woods\\". You are going to be trying to make money at the expense of  another's loss. You are up against people who have done this all their  professional careers, young hotshots who made $1,000,000 last year because,  \\"the video screens are like any video game except these pay\\". Part of the  thirty-day course includes lectures from a psychologist. Now what message  is the author not so subtlety suggesting? Do you have the correct form of  mental wiring to deal with making a couple of hundred decisions a day, can  you handle the constant losses that you will experience, do you have any  propensity for gambling. If the answer to the last question is yes, don't  go near this game. If you want to trade for yourself, don't confuse a trade  or two a day, and staying in stocks for more than a few seconds. Successful  Day-Traders are few, like exceptional athletes, or any other occupation  that a small number of people have the talent for. On-line trading is fun;  true Day-Trading is for the few, not the masses.ast year because,  \\"the video screens are like any video game except these pay\\". Part of the  thirty-day course includes lectures from a psychologist. Now what message  is the author not so subtlety suggesting? Do you have the correct form of  mental wiring to deal with making a couple of hundred decisions a day, can  you handle the constant losses that you will experience, do you have any  propensity for gambling. If the answer to the last question is yes, don't  go near this game. If you want to trade for yourself, don't confuse a trade  or two a day, and staying in stocks for more than a few seconds. Successful  Day-Traders are few, like exceptional athletes, or any other occupation  that a small number of people have the talent for. On-line trading is fun;  true Day-Trading is for the few, not the masses.	1999-12-16
2723623:US	53047425	R22AFT2JVXABTJ	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	4	42	50	N	N	Historical Multiple Choice, Or, What If Annie Oakley Missed?	The reason I could not go with 5 stars was due to the lack of notes. There are events described that are familiar, but there are many that unless a good deal of prior knowledge is brought by the reader, the full benefit of  a given essay is missed. On balance this is a great read. I am new to the,  \\"Counterfactual Study\\" of History, but I am also a new fan. One note of  caution, there are authors who make value judgments about a given  Culture/People that may clash with a belief a reader may hold dear, but  these are the exception and not the rule. It did seem at times  inappropriate to make value judgments about History even if an alternate  one is proposed. As it was still being treated as \\"A\\" History if not \\"The\\"  History, should not the same objectivity be maintained? An alternative  outcome of events does not require a value Judgement, or an editorial to be  admitted or even needed. I am not advocating a view, rather stating that no  personal views by the Author are needed. Tell us your theory, not who or  what you may not like about who is involved. Anyway it is a great book. Do  you know when the Declaration Of Independence was signed? I thought I did.  No one I asked got the date correct either. I spent some time researching  the issue because I had trouble believing that what I read was correct, and  that even my small poll showed no one else knew the date either. This is an  example of where a footnote would have been helpful. There are also some  great details. Did you know the Kaiser volunteered to be shot at by Annie  Oakley? What if she had shot him instead of what she did hit? Or how about  a New York Taxi-Driver than came within inches of fundamentally altering  the 20th Century? Or how one blow of a battle-axe caused disorientation of  he who was hit, but the second blow, having been prevented by a bodyguard  changed history. Big events do alter History; this book demonstrates how  totally unforeseen events, individual action, or the smallest detail or  mistake can have the same impact as an event thought to be a major turning  point.or  mistake can have the same impact as an event thought to be a major turning  point.	1999-12-12
2727320:US	53047425	R21RU9V2JGR238	0399145052	176308808	Bagombo Snuff Box: Uncollected Short Fiction	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Angels protect the innocent as a matter of Heavenly routine.	Title of this review is a quote from Mr. Vonnegut in this book. The ONLY reason I stopped at 4 stars is that any author who writes with this much skill at the start of his career, must become better and better as his  skills mature, and his experience increases. This is the first time I have  read Mr. Vonnegut's work, and this collection of short stories has made me  a fan that looks forward to the Author's work as it developed. Before you  even reach the first story, Mr. Vonnegut provides a biography which is  worth the cost of the book if you place a high value on humor, and  regardless of whether you agree, social commentary wrapped in a wickedly  subtle, and occasionally not so subtle manner. His definition of reading is  the best I have ever read, and his description of his time as a salesman  for Saab is priceless. Developing so much interest for a reader in the span  of a short story is a remarkable feat for any author. Mr. Vonnegut together  with John Steinbeck, Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and William  Faulkner, to name a few literary masters, brought these stories to life  when magazines ruled and TV was a nightmare (for the most part) yet to  come. Together with artistic legends like Norman Rockwell and N.C. Wyeth,  these stories were entertainment for much of America. In spite of all the  advances in communications, picking up a book with talent like this, will  always endure. Thanks Mr. Vonnegut!	1999-12-09
2727866:US	53047425	R1W4T1VZQ4RFN1	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	64	71	N	N	The result of Mixing Indiana Jones, James Bond, and others.	Mr. Cussler's books are great escapist fiction. His newest, \\"Atlantis Found\\", I believe is one of the better tales he has told. The other enjoyment that comes with a Cussler novel is watching the professional  critics try to trash his work. They don't get it, but as these novels  routinely make the best-seller lists, we the readers do. The critics do get  it, but they prefer books that get the literary equivalent of an Academy  Award, while Mr. Cussler takes home The People's Choice Award.<br />\\"Atlantis  Found\\" is way over the top, fantastic in what is spread on its' 534 pages,  and most importantly fun, and a great read. Dirk Pitt and Al Giordino are a  combination of, Indiana Jones, James Bond, The Saint, the members of the  old and new Mission Impossible teams, and a dash of The Duke John Wayne  leading the cavalry. Sure the book has its clich&eacute;'s, but does not every  Bond film as well? Mr. Cussler gives his readers what they enjoy, and what  may be one person's clich&eacute;, is another's cue that he or she is about to  embark on an adventure with old friends. If you read Mr. Cussler you have  probably read well into this latest work, and if you are not yet amongst  his readers, \\"Atlantis Found\\", is a good place to start.	1999-12-09
2732564:US	53047425	RSIBWA6JEIL5L	0553578820	8971344	Tales from the New Republic: Star Wars Legends	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Buy With Your Eyes Open	If you are like me when a new Star Wars book appears you buy it. There have been other &quot;Tales From, Tales Of&quot; all of which are better than this particular group of stories. The other collections dealt with  characters that were either known to the Star Wars Fan, or could be placed  in context once the story had begun. I believe this was very well done with  &quot;Tales From Jabba's Palace&quot;. Even if a specific character went  barely noticed or even unnoticed, the events allowed you to re-experience  familiar events from characters that were present at an event, although  they played no known role in it from the point of view of the moviegoer.  Previous short story collections gave you the ability to listen in through  a variety of characters. And if you were not looking through another's eyes  at a familiar event, the story was still tied to familiar places, known  characters, and time frames. I read all of these books as they generally  are quite good, and fill in bits of History that were never shown in the  movies. After the book is read, the movie can again be viewed and there are  a whole new group of characters you \\"know\\" from a story in their life.  There is a teaser at the top of the cover that speaks of a short novel by  Timothy Zahn and Michael A. Stackpole. However you only have to get to \\"The  Foreword and Acknowledgements\\" to learn these stories, with the  Zahn/Stackpole exception, were put together after, and primarily from  contributions to \\"the now-defunct Official Star Wars Adventure Journal\\". To  be fair, some stories are taken from the role-playing games, so those  stories may appeal to the Role Playing Gamer. Yes there are some references  to places and people that are familiar, but they are generally a few words  that clue the reader as to when a particular story is happening, and in  some stories, remind the reader where he/she is supposed to be. The  exception to this is the short novel produced by the two mentioned Star  Wars Authors. If you like to read about Star Wars and need a book to hold  you over to the next full-length book, buy this with modest expectations.  Actually most fans, will find something they like but will not come away  thrilled. The Collection can be enjoyed, just moderate your expectations  and do not let 2 familiar names guide you as to the quality of this  particular collection.uthors. If you like to read about Star Wars and need a book to hold  you over to the next full-length book, buy this with modest expectations.  Actually most fans, will find something they like but will not come away  thrilled. The Collection can be enjoyed, just moderate your expectations  and do not let 2 familiar names guide you as to the quality of this  particular collection.	1999-12-05
2734046:US	53047425	R1EWNPHNNAMWO3	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	5	43	48	N	N	&quot;It is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma.&quot; WSC	The title of this review was borrowed from Sir Winston Churchill. I use the quotation here, as I believe it describes this book beautifully. This book is my first introduction to the work of Mr. Palliser who was unknown  to me prior to this volume. I actually bought the novel based upon a quote  on the jacket that referred to Mr. Palliser unburying the Author Wilkie  Collins as well as others not named. Mr. Collins is credited by some for  creating the mystery novel, and is known for such works as \\"The Moonstone\\"  and \\"The Woman In White\\". He was a friend of Charles Dickens and they  published a paper together for a time. Some Scholars suggest that the book  Mr. Dickens was writing but died before finishing; \\"The Mystery Of Edwin  Drood\\" was influenced by Mr. Collins. This is one of the top 10 books of  this genre I have ever read. I actually bought the Author's previous book  \\"The Quincunx\\" before I had reached the mid-point of \\"The Unburied\\". If as  some have written the book prior to this was even better, I look forward to  it being astonishing. If it were only as good as this book, I would be  thrilled. The book has an interesting structure with an unusual Note at the  beginning and end. I will say no more than that. Between those notes is a  mystery of the highest caliber. Characters whose names are reminiscent and  a tribute to Dickens, not simply badly copied. A plot that while complex  can be followed but the reader must pay careful attention. Paper and pen to  diagram relationships amongst the players does not hurt, it also allows you  to continue hypothesizing when reading is impractical. For those who like  naming the conspirators or detailing the crime before the book reveals it's  secrets, just as objects and people, both living and dead, throughout the  book do, will I believe find this tale wonderfully frustrating. It keeps  its secrets until the end, but there is more. Every time you are tempted to  think aha! I got it; a few pages later will have you questioning how you  ever could have had such a solution. And the Author does not use simplistic  literary tricks, the information is there, the reader has to find it. This  Author pays tribute to his readers by challenging them to match wits, as  opposed to handing down a clich&eacute; or re-write of a familiar tale. Mr.  Palliser makes you work, he makes you think, he offers bits of information  that are false leads unless you catch them before being duped, and  admitting for the 10th time your aha! was really another trap presumption  led you into. The book is like the wind and the Author the wind's master,  your hat or paper are blown from you, and each time it pauses and you reach  away it flies once more. When you finally grasp it you stand to find you  have been lead into a Labyrinth, and the task you thought was complete has  just begun. Get this prize of a book you will not be disappointed. I am off  to start The Quincunx!u questioning how you  ever could have had such a solution. And the Author does not use simplistic  literary tricks, the information is there, the reader has to find it. This  Author pays tribute to his readers by challenging them to match wits, as  opposed to handing down a clich or re-write of a familiar tale. Mr.  Palliser makes you work, he makes you think, he offers bits of information  that are false leads unless you catch them before being duped, and  admitting for the 10th time your aha! was really another trap presumption  led you into. The book is like the wind and the Author the wind's master,  your hat or paper are blown from you, and each time it pauses and you reach  away it flies once more. When you finally grasp it you stand to find you  have been lead into a Labyrinth, and the task you thought was complete has  just begun. Get this prize of a book you will not be disappointed. I am off  to start The Quincunx!	1999-12-04
2738380:US	53047425	R3I95TKWESU7S8	0300080301	888346679	Five Days in London, May 1940	Books	5	50	59	N	N	&quot;He saved Britain, Europe and Western Civilization&quot; Author	\\"But in May 1940 Churchill was the one who did not loose it\\" This is the theme of a compact, extraordinary 5 days that decided the outcome of WWII. This is certainly not the only event that brought the allies victory,  however Mr. Lukacs demonstrates that while England was never in a position  to win the war alone, she was in a position to loose it, and Churchill was  the individual who saw that it was not lost. I don't believe he overstates  Churchill's role in the slightest. Had the War gone the other way Churchill  certainly would have been given all the blame. Churchill was flawed, but  during the decade of 1930, in what are often referred to as \\"His Wilderness  Years\\" the same men who would later owe their existence and that of their  Country's continuance to him rejected him out of hand. When he finally  became Prime Minister it was when all the disasters had begun or had been  completed. Churchill was given the mess that he inherited from Chamberlein  and others; Alsace Lorraine gone, Austria gone, Czechoslovakia given away  with Chamberlain's active participation punctuated by the \\"Peace In Our  Time\\" debacle. Further, France was quickly falling apart, as were the Low  Countries, Dunkirk loomed, and what is worse, Churchill had to cope with  members of his own Cabinet that wanted to negotiate with Hitler as he was  storming across Europe. Churchill managed to bring those in government and  the public to his side, and the rest as they say is History. Mr. Lukacs  provides great additional information, footnotes that are as informative as  the body of the text, and an even handed description of those players  involved including Churchill. Brilliantly written History, that is also  readable, and demonstrates that what we may have thought of as an event  that actually did take years to finish, may well have been decided in 5  days. Buy the book you will not be disappointed.	1999-12-01
2740533:US	53047425	R2MXDCHNUE7BU6	0684832879	528789584	The Great Game: The Emergence of Wall Street as a World Power:  1653-2000	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Every Page Enhances Your Knowledge	Mr. Gorden has accomplished what only great communicators can; he delivers a tremendous amount of easily understood information about his subject, and does not require 1000 pages to do so. In this instance the subject is not  an easy one to grasp if it is new to you, or even if it's not so new. If  you have ever wanted to have an understanding of much of what you hear  about Wall Street, including historical fact, definitions of market  language, where the word broker originated, or where and why the wall that  was actually erected was placed that gave Wall Street it's name, this is  the book. Mr. Gorden explains why geography destined New York City to  outgrow any other American Port, and the reasons may surprise you. What was  the first \\"Corner\\" that was accomplished in the market, what is a \\"Corner\\",  it's all here. As are some of the famous and infamous men and some  fascinating women that helped create the colorful history of, and that  brought us the amazing place Wall Street is today. And Mr. Gordon's  explanation as to the definition of what constitutes a World Power might  surprise you, as well as who those powers are. Very well written, full of  useful information, all in all, a great read.	1999-11-30
2743871:US	53047425	RXZ9XK5IO3BCC	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	232	244	N	N	Galileo New? In This Gem Of A Book YES! With A Twist!	Dava Sobel has accomplished what is nearly impossible when dealing with a subject who is as well known, and documented as the life of Galileo. There must be literally hundreds of books on the man, and his works. Dava Sobel  not only finds new source information, the letters of Galileo's eldest  Daughter Sister Maria Celeste, but also uses them to expand on what is  commonly known about Galileo the Scientist, the accused Heretic, and gives  us Galileo the Father. It could be argued that the book is as much about  Galileo as his Daughter, but that would be misplacing the emphasis of the  book. We learn of the extremely harsh life of Cloistered Nuns, the  medicines that Galileo's Daughter made and treated him with. This to me was  fascinating as opposed to just knowing that Galileo was often sickly. From  the detail in the book one could recreate these medicinal treatments if one  chose to. This type of detail would not normally interest me, but here it  is presented as a Daughter trying to maintain the physical health, as well  as constantly buttressing the man's faith as he was accused, tried,  sentenced, and watched his life's greatest work banned by his own Church.  And to have this torment take place with the consent of a man that Galileo  counted as a friend, both prior to his being Pope, and when he became Pope  Urban VIII. I feel the Authoress did a brilliant job of handling the  religious issue. Rarely can this be attempted without the writer being  branded anti-Catholic. She was able to state the facts, without editorial  comment, by which she successfully navigated a secular minefield. Some of  the facts are so petty and mean-spirited that was it not for the fact they  came from Vatican Records, Dava Sobel would find herself the target of the  narrow-minded. She often will let the testimony speak for itself. When  accused of publishing that which was considered Heresy, Galileo produces  written permission granted by the Church Authorities prior to publication  of his work. Hard to argue with that, but the Church not only ignored it,  but convicted him in spite of it. This is not a Science book yet the  Authoress includes enough without discouraging the non-scientist with math  formulae. This is not a textbook that recites facts to be memorized and  then repeated by rote repetition. What this is, is a gem of a book that  makes a familiar historical figure new and fresh to the reader. She expands  Galileo from one of history's great scientists, to a man, a man cruelly  hurt, the head of a Family, a man betrayed by someone he called a friend.  And finally, portrays a devoted Daughter that suffered along with, and did  what she could, to support her Father spiritually and physically with a  devoted Daughter's love. As I mentioned in the title this book has an  outstanding surprise that I was never aware of. Dava Sobel brings it to  light with such subtlety and grace that it is a touching revelation, rather  than a cheap trick of literary device. Dava Sobel, many thanks, I look  forward to your next work.n  of his work. Hard to argue with that, but the Church not only ignored it,  but convicted him in spite of it. This is not a Science book yet the  Authoress includes enough without discouraging the non-scientist with math  formulae. This is not a textbook that recites facts to be memorized and  then repeated by rote repetition. What this is, is a gem of a book that  makes a familiar historical figure new and fresh to the reader. She expands  Galileo from one of history's great scientists, to a man, a man cruelly  hurt, the head of a Family, a man betrayed by someone he called a friend.  And finally, portrays a devoted Daughter that suffered along with, and did  what she could, to support her Father spiritually and physically with a  devoted Daughter's love. As I mentioned in the title this book has an  outstanding surprise that I was never aware of. Dava Sobel brings it to  light with such subtlety and grace that it is a touching revelation, rather  than a cheap trick of literary device. Dava Sobel, many thanks, I look  forward to your next work.	1999-11-28
2744901:US	53047425	R17LEFSIY6V2OM	0590519565	822378911	The Defenders of the Dead (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 5)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	I'm 3 Times The High End Of The Suggested Reading Age	If you are a Star Wars fan, these books are fun. They always seem to offer a bit of information that the &quot;adult versions&quot; do not offer. I have read the first four, and will finish #5 tonight. The collected comic  series that are brought out by Dark Horse Comics also are great, as are  &quot;The Young Jedi Knight Series&quot; All of these formats are a bit  different, but they all add to your knowledge of the Star Wars Universe.  And after the recent &quot;Vector Prime&quot; I really enjoy these all the  more. So I apologize to younger readers if I am tresspassing on your area,  but I do it with respect for the Star Wars Saga. And for those over 12, 20,  30, 40 and so on, buy the book, and when the check out person looks at you,  proudly say &quot;it's for me&quot;, wear your enthusiasm with pride. It  takes some practice, especially when I am in the kids section asking a  helpful young person where I can find these. I met my match when a young  man said, &quot;is this for you&quot; I admitted I was hooked on Star Wars,  he said &quot;that's cool&quot;. So now I hang out with the young folks and  chat about stories that I watched on the screen decades before they were  born. If you feel old this is a great cure. Thanks to all young readers!	1999-11-27
2746185:US	53047425	R221YTZP8XPEEM	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	5	145	152	N	N	Tis Not Angela, Nor Should It, Or Could It Be	Angela's Ashes was a unique accomplishment on many levels. Tis was doomed before it ever came out because it would suffer by comparison. However, this is still a great read by an interesting man who has great sensitivity  to dialogue, and makes some stinging social observations with great  subtlety. The books cannot be compared unless you have strong feelings  about the skill the writer had, or did not have in either volume. Is the  language rougher, yes, this is a man describing his life, not a child. Does  he have opinions that are black and white, with little room for gray at  times, yes.  Part of the problem with moving from one book to the next, is  that the memories of a child, and terrible memories at that, are a powerful  force to draw you in, and cause one to feel great sympathy and pain for the  child. Then the child becomes a man, and it's much more difficult to carry  the same empathy from the first book to the second. In fact I don't think  it is possible. If you have read neither book, read this first, and then  Angela's Ashes. The books change dramatically when you do. The harsh  criticism of the man becomes infinitely more complex and difficult if you  learn of the childhood that was his formative years. Most autobiographies,  or biographies cover a life, not pieces of a life that in this case are  still unfolding. The abrupt change from book one to book two is caused, I  believe, because they are bound separately. If he had covered the same  period in his life with a single book it would have been more comfortable  for the reader. I am glad that he did break his life up, as Angela's Ashes  will forever remain a book that will gain the title of a \\"Classic\\". Book  one was brilliant, it was the author's first, it won The Pulitzer, it one  other awards, it is about to be shown as a major motion picture. There is  no one that can follow that act #1. Frank McCourt is a great writer who I  wish had come to us sooner. I hope he lives to be a hundred so I may  selfishly read as much as possible of what he writes.y  selfishly read as much as possible of what he writes.	1999-11-25
2746660:US	53047425	RAPM82W75FJLQ	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	5	27	34	N	N	5 Stars For Survivors, The Dead, Mr. Momsen, The Families,	Everyone involved in the rescue, and for The Author for bringing this piece of History to one who was unaware of it. I do not have the technical expertise of many of the reviewers so I too would have found pictures or  drawings very helpful. The story is not diminished by their absence, but  for those who don't have the knowledge it would have helped to clarify and  expand on certain issues and the equipment used. I read through the book  almost without pause as there is no let up at all in the story, it is an  excellent piece of historical writing, and if it hadn't happened, it would  have made a great novel. I do not mean to infer it is light reading, simply  very well written even though a few more details/explanations would have  helped the layperson. My Father served in the Navy, and he always has  spoken about the Men that served in the Submarines as people that were a  \\"Certain kind of special, and who had a lot of guts\\". I didn't fully  appreciate that comment until this book. These men were closer to amazing  than just special. The craft they were using may have been state of the art  in their day, but I don't know how much comfort could be derived from that  fact. Mr. Momson, the rescuers, the crewmen that survived, and those that  did not, are all heroes, as are their Families. I do not believe that we  hear enough about heroes and heroines to the extent that we should. And the  next comment may generate some nasty letters but that's fine. Today heroes  and their female counterparts are often those who endorse sneakers and  other forms of Athletic Equipment. Sports are important; excellence in  sport should be celebrated, but kept in perspective. These submariners,  their counterparts on ships, the men and women who served on the ground or  in the air, are not celebrated nearly enough, our standards have gotten  badly out of line. All that we enjoy, and all that we are free to  criticize, and the lives we have to pursue our goals with, ALL are owed to  the men and women who have served their Country in Peace and in War. I have  never been to war, but for those who have given me my freedom a thank you,  my respect, and a promise to raise my Children to know who gave them the  Country in which they live, is what I can offer. It's not much compared to  what you have done, but I believe many more citizens than not know they owe  what we have to those who defended us.e men and women who have served their Country in Peace and in War. I have  never been to war, but for those who have given me my freedom a thank you,  my respect, and a promise to raise my Children to know who gave them the  Country in which they live, is what I can offer. It's not much compared to  what you have done, but I believe many more citizens than not know they owe  what we have to those who defended us.	1999-11-25
2755077:US	53047425	R2VOFMTZPDUYYC	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	54	85	N	N	If He's Canonized, It's A Sure Sign Of The Apocalypse	I was raised as a Catholic. I say that, as I believe the reviewer's background is relevant when reviewing this type of book. It appears the  reviews can be divided into two categories, people who read the book  without it's affecting their faith, and the one-star reviewers, who I would  suggest are primarily Catholic, and did not read the book if that were that  upset by it. If your Faith in any religion can be ruined or even damaged by  one book about one, in this case Pope, how strong was it before the book  was read? Another book that should be read is &quot;Unholy Trinity&quot;,  which actually motivated me to pursue more information about the actions of  the Catholic Church and Pius XII in particular. Human beings are flawed, so  why is it a shock that a Pope can be as flawed as the next person? He is  flesh and blood when he is born, and his composition does not change when  he is elected Pope. A Catholic who does not question Papal Authority, the  233 books of The Bible is certain to be offended. Their &quot;Faith&quot;  has not been offended rather their &quot;Blind Faith&quot; has been the  victim. This book is no more damaging than the other I mentioned or others  that have been written. I will say if this bothered you \\"Unholy Trinity\\"  will give you a stroke. The fact that the Catholic Church has cut itself  off, and is out of touch with its flock is not news and should not be a  surprise. How does one watch the Pope riding through a village devastated  by Famine, and have him pronounce abstinence is the answer to this issue as  well as Aids? It's patently absurd. Catholic Churches are being forced to  close and consolidate because there is such a shortage of new Priests.  People today will not accept being treated as though they are ignorant;  they want to read a Bible that has not been encoded in Latin so that they  had no knowledge of what it contained. Knowledge is power and the Church  wants it to itself. The better part of 400 years to publicly admit that  Galileo was correct, it sounds like a bad joke, but worse it's true.  Pacelli was interested in his power, his prospects for being a Saint, his  direct relationship with &quot;his&quot; God. Was he anti-Semitic? If you  were to defend his innocence in court you would lose. They rounded up Jews  outside of his Palace, they drove the Jews by the Vatican, as the Germans  were curious about the Building that housed the man who signed the FIRST  treaty with Hitler, and then took the Jews to a cave and slaughtered them.  Pacelli the man did not care, how could Pacelli The Pope care? Canonizing  this flawed man would be a crime, but if this happens, as it surely will, I  hope there is a new category created for those who deserve the highest  honor the Church can bestow. For one I don't think Mother Teresa should  have to share the same title as this very flawed man. Everything that can  be positive about ANY religion was Mother Teresa; Pacelli represents what  happens when any church becomes a group, when it becomes &quot;Us&quot;  versus &quot;Them&quot;. Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Buddhist Temple, no one  is better, no one worse, just different. Until this is accepted as fact we  as a race are in for the continuing misery that is Organized Religion, as  it now exists.t that  Galileo was correct, it sounds like a bad joke, but worse it's true.  Pacelli was interested in his power, his prospects for being a Saint, his  direct relationship with &quot;his&quot; God. Was he anti-Semitic? If you  were to defend his innocence in court you would lose. They rounded up Jews  outside of his Palace, they drove the Jews by the Vatican, as the Germans  were curious about the Building that housed the man who signed the FIRST  treaty with Hitler, and then took the Jews to a cave and slaughtered them.  Pacelli the man did not care, how could Pacelli The Pope care? Canonizing  this flawed man would be a crime, but if this happens, as it surely will, I  hope there is a new category created for those who deserve the highest  honor the Church can bestow. For one I don't think Mother Teresa should  have to share the same title as this very flawed man. Everything that can  be positive about ANY religion was Mother Teresa; Pacelli represents what  happens when any church becomes a group, when it becomes &quot;Us&quot;  versus &quot;Them&quot;. Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Buddhist Temple, no one  is better, no one worse, just different. Until this is accepted as fact we  as a race are in for the continuing misery that is Organized Religion, as  it now exists.	1999-11-13
2756711:US	53047425	R21TEFNOAOHFCC	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	2	15	17	N	N	What is Jim Clark's Problem?	The book gets less stars only because of the main character. The book is an enjoyable read, but Jim Clark does nothing except whine, complain, whine, and then complain some more, and it's usually because of his  attention span which is that of an infant. The man is a tremendous success  matched only by his constant whining of how life has screwed him. He builds  a $50 million dollar boat, hangs $30 million of art in it, and 2 hours into  the maiden crossing complains about the porthole trim and announces he's  bored. We never even see a drawing of the boat that is a central character,  but there is a reason. Clark is barely on dry ground when he is looking at  plans for &quot;the boat&quot; even though the one he got off is 10 times  more dysfunctional than everything/everyone he complains about. This man is  either extremely unhappy, or delights in making others miserable because  his money allows him that option. The writer should find a worthier topic,  Jim Clark is an arrested adolescent, and an obnoxious one at that.	1999-11-09
2756717:US	53047425	R1PZWC8GIZH0Y9	055311123X	118006879	Battle Born	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Dale Brown And Friends Are Back, And The Tinman Is Dead!	I have always enjoyed Mr. Brown's work. &quot;The Tin Man&quot; ruined what had been a unbroken string of great work. This book is a first rate Dale Brown adventure. The book is well written, maintains a steady, fast  pace that fans have loved since the original &quot;Flight Of The Old  Dog&quot;. I read the nearly 400 page book in 24 hours, it's that good.  Dale Brown the original is back and at his best, and some old and new  friends have come with him. &quot;The Tin Man&quot; is dead or in OZ which  is where he should have stayed. Welcome back Dale Brown!	1999-11-09
2761364:US	53047425	R1MKGXKQEQKTOY	0670887978	98285160	The Holy Bible: King James Version / The Pennyroyal Caxton Bible	Books	5	69	78	N	N	Put Your Specific Faith Or Lack Thereof Aside For A Moment	I am fortunate in that Mr. Moser was a teacher of mine in high school. If he kept track I was also probably his worst calligraphy student. I could  not draw a vertical line, so he literally held my hand, and then his  guiding hand produced magic. Unfortunately for me, I was, like some  teenagers equipped with an organ more akin to a gland than a brain. You  cannot review this book. One can comment on whether The King's James  Version is or is not enjoyable or the language too dated to push through.  This is about the illustrations for each of the collection of books that is  The Bible. Try to put aside as best you can the secular nature of the  story, forget the words, and look at the images. These works are in black  and white, and now that I have seen them I do not believe they can be  effectively portrayed any other way. Color can be distracting, color can be  inappropriate. In Steven Spielberg's Movie, &quot;Schindler's List&quot;  would red blood spreading on white snow have been more or less dramatic?  How about the same movie in color? It would not have been the same movie.  These images while beautifully composed, and incredibly detailed,  accomplish making there point or points with as much impact as a visual  experience can be with a simple palette of color, or perhaps better  described as contrast. When you see Job you see suffering that is  unimaginable, and knowledge of the story, or the fact that it is a  Christian story, to me, is missing the point and not recognizing what Mr.  Moser has accomplished. Knowing the suffering comes from loyalty does make  it even more powerful that this man endures this for something he believes.  Any religion can have this loyalty. Knowing a bit of the story makes the  image more dramatic, if that's possible. You want pure Human evil, and the  horror it creates? Look at the crucifixion series. This shows what it must  have been like to suffer such a deranged man-made form of torture and  murder. And it is not because Mr. Moser shows you hammers, nails, and  blood, that's the easy way out. He shows you enough to trigger the horror  within you. To understand what man is capable of doing to his own. It does  not matter what sort of building you worship in, or whether you worship at  all. You cannot view these images without being affected. These people that  he has rendered are the people you see every day. These are not the The  Medici's idealized gigantic frescoes, not an altar piece approved by a  committee and rendered by Carravagio (I Love Carravagio) on hundreds of  square feet of space that will make an impression if only for their size.  Some of these illustrations are quite small, they force you to get close,  and the size has nothing to do with what they are able to communicate. We  are the only Species that tortures it's own. It's a fact, it's sad, and it  raises some disturbing questions. But look at these pictures,  &quot;read&quot; them. A grieving Mother can be a Catholic, Protestant,  Jew, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Cherokee, or Zulu. They are the same in  their grief. If Mr. Moser could teach Humanity to all &quot;Humans&quot;  with his images, then we would be worthy of the world we then would have.  Mr. Moser, a sincere thanks.. Moser shows you hammers, nails, and  blood, that's the easy way out. He shows you enough to trigger the horror  within you. To understand what man is capable of doing to his own. It does  not matter what sort of building you worship in, or whether you worship at  all. You cannot view these images without being affected. These people that  he has rendered are the people you see every day. These are not the The  Medici's idealized gigantic frescoes, not an altar piece approved by a  committee and rendered by Carravagio (I Love Carravagio) on hundreds of  square feet of space that will make an impression if only for their size.  Some of these illustrations are quite small, they force you to get close,  and the size has nothing to do with what they are able to communicate. We  are the only Species that tortures it's own. It's a fact, it's sad, and it  raises some disturbing questions. But look at these pictures,  &quot;read&quot; them. A grieving Mother can be a Catholic, Protestant,  Jew, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Cherokee, or Zulu. They are the same in  their grief. If Mr. Moser could teach Humanity to all &quot;Humans&quot;  with his images, then we would be worthy of the world we then would have.  Mr. Moser, a sincere thanks.	1999-11-01
2768722:US	53047425	RUM66XYI59Y2J	0812931432	20757289	High Stakes, No Prisoners : A Winner's Tale of Greed and Glory in the Internet Wars	Books	5	19	26	N	N	&quot;I never, ever, thought my idea of an interesting evening...	The entire quote is, &quot;I never, ever, thought that my idea of an interesting evening in bed with my girlfriend would be watching a video of Bill Gates. I doubt that it will ever happen again&quot;. This book is a  treasure on many levels. Mr Ferguson is extremely bright, PHDS' are not  given away at MIT, he has a wide range of experience from consulting at the  Federal level, to being the founder of Vermeer (Now Frontpage) which is the  dominant web authoring software on the planet. Unlike all the other,  &quot;My Days In The Valley Book&quot;, this is a book of great merit. It  is well written, reads like a novel and the Author is never misunderstood.  It's black it'a white it's nothing in between. He appraises people bluntly  whether positive or negative, and he has one wickedly sharp sense of humor.  Definition of a Venture Capitalist; &quot;a heavyset guy who wears badly  fitting suits..has no discernable personality, sense of humor, or  compassion-ideal traits for a venture capitalist&quot;. I am involved in a  start up, and this book offers more valuable insight than I have read, been  told, or advised, as to what to do, and what not to do. He shares the  victories, and he shares his mistakes no matter how bad they were. If you  are in any business that is going to involve outside investors, Venture  Capitalists, will require a &quot;Professional CEO&quot;, or any of another  100 or so issues this book should go with you to every meeting. If we ever  make it to IPO, or acquisition, he's getting stock as a thank you. This  book is that good. If you are in business or are wondering if a start up is  for you, pass this book of at your peril. Mr. Ferguson, my sincere thanks.	1999-10-21
2776955:US	53047425	R2UTAIXGX3JUAG	0345428447	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Dark, Darker, Darkest	This is not the Star Wars we all grew up with. I have read all the books, all the collected comics etc, and this is something very different. The art on the cover gives you an idea of what's inside. Two things that are  outstanding; 1. a Map of The Star Wars Galaxy, 2. and a Time Line of the  books, that while not going all the way back, covers 99% of what should  have been included years ago. THANK YOU! Mr. Salvatore adapted to this saga  very well, and without the one-liners that have gotten so annoying from the  original 3 movies. He didn't use any crutches, and created amazing new life  forms, organic weapons etc. Excellent story, well-paced, never slumps,  keeps the tension high, so plan on a late night or two. The &quot;IT&quot;  that others refer to bothered me, as I feel it was unecessary. That type of  written device usually props up a weak story, and this book is anything but  weak. But be prepared, this is a grim New Republic, many of our favorite  characters are angry, very angry.Teenagers kill, with justification, but  it's one more reminder that this &quot;New&quot; series is very new and  very dark. If it were a movie, they would have to work hard and cut alot to  not get an R. Still it's outstanding. Don't give up on &quot;IT&quot;, a  crack in that door was left open, and fans will kick that door in. Enjoy!	1999-10-08
2892853:US	53047425	R2K8EQVBO9IATF	1571290788	888269154	Format C:	Books	3	2	4	N	N	I guess I missed something.	Interesting? Yes? Way Over The Top? Yes and yes again. And the ending when the bad guys are identified, cliche does not even come close. A Windy murder? That was clever. Quick read, wait for the paperback.	1999-04-02
2895241:US	53047425	R12A5N7RJUZ5P0	0679452931	398028963	Little Green Men: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Brilliant!	Buckley The Younger is one of the best results of Guttenberg's invention	1999-03-29
2960498:US	53047425	R3UO8KATAZ921Q	0525460896	350221871	Within Reach: My Everest Story	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Read This, Forget The Rest	This may be targetted at young adults, but I am twice this young man's age, and I hold him, his impressions, and thoughts about his experiences higher than the enormous number of; &quot;Me, Me, Me, And Then I&quot;,  books, that we have been bombarded with since The Everest Tragedy. This  young man gives more insight into men like Anatoli Boukreev, Scott Fisher,  and others than I ever got out of,&quot;paid for editorials from Outdoor  Magazine&quot;. This young man raised his own money, he is in extraordinary  physical condition, he was better qualified than many of his fellow  climbers, and he will continue to climb for decades as his maturity and  with it the good judgement he exercises, will keep him safe, and others  that will climb with him. If either he or his co-author reads this I would  like to help support his next climb. You are an inspiration!	1998-11-24
2971989:US	53047425	R1PJ23FC3MZINX	0312192673	744444251	Give Me Liberty: Freeing Ourselves in the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A Man Who Loves His Country	To prepare for this book I recommend reading, &quot;ClosedChambers&quot;, by Edward Lazarus. It is not a light romp, theinformation is too disturbing, as he reveals for us the 9 Wizards Of Oz that literally enter the courtroom of &quot;our&quot; highest court from behind a curtain.  &quot;Give Me Liberty!&quot; is understandable, not because it's structure or ideas are simplistic, rather because a Master Storyteller by the name of Mr. Gerry Spence has amongst his gifts the ability to pull back the curtain and show all of us the basic concepts that we think we live under. Mr. Spence loves this Country, and I believe he is driven by a deep sadness to write this book because he knows what this Country can be, what it should be. But all he can do is write a book, subject himself to critics who,  not satisfied with attacking his ideas, attack him. I love this book, probably more than all his other works. He shares with us how we have gotten to where we are, and for the moment, in my opinion, let's put it aside for a bit, and read, contemplate and dream with Mr. Spence. I want to be part of his vision, do you? EARN WHAT IS YOURS!  END	1998-10-29
3066330:US	53047425	R1GRR4PEYUOZD1	0312168144	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Finally	Anotoli Boukreev was findly recognized for what he is, a true hero. This peer recognition should finally settle the detractors. On second thought that is much too much to hope for, A tremendous book, read it! Mr. Boukreev congratulations! I hope to have the honor of one day meeting you. Francis McInerney	1997-12-17
3067404:US	53047425	R2AJQ3N4NWAIVX	0792270142	14766088	Everest : Mountain Without Mercy	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Read The Others, Then Read This	My Everest, &quot;Experience&quot;, began with Mr. Krakauer and his book, &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;. I then read Mr. Boukreev's book, &quot;The Climb&quot;. Scattered amongst these were many other books about K2, incredible rescues, etc. The first and second books mentioned are outstanding, and while only those who were there know what flaws, if any, the books contain, they are both enthralling, frightening, and in the end horribly sad. They are however written by individuals, and like all first hand accounts expose a personal viewpoint, that here is all the more complex due to the conditions under which the climbers were trying to stay alive and sort out their thoughts. There has been criticism written about both accounts, I am guilty, but from spectators like us, criticism is inappropriate. We just were not there. This book brings balance to the tragic aspects of the climb, and through photographs that can only be rendered through the I-Max System, the best sense of the scale of the attempt, and the personal components that any individual must have to make the summit of Everest a goal. The only very disturbing news this book shared was the unconscionable behavior of one team, who's country I will not mention in the hope that these climbers represent an aberration of that Country's Citizenry. While books and debates will continue on this tragedy for some time to come, this book does an outstanding job of stepping back a bit, leaving bias behind, and finally, stands as a memorial of sorts for all those who were there. Again my thanks to all those who made the book available, and my condolences to those who suffered, perished, and to their families. They were and are all remarkable men and women.	1997-12-11
3073504:US	53047425	R2VO1LU4FGJYFJ	0312180098	216513749	O.J. the Last Word	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Celebrate The Verdict?	Want to be disturbed, want to risk a difficult self-evaluation, want to endorse some uncomfortable facts about this Country's History? I guess it will be decided on why you read. Mr. Spence, &quot;I say we must celebrate the verdict in the Simpson case, and honor the jurors for their wisdom and their unappreciated gift of freedom they have delivered to us&quot;. The first time through that statement, hopefully, will stir some emotion within anyone regardless of their color, or opinion that, &quot;justice was aborted in this case...&quot; And then after the emotion has passed, sit back and think about all Mr. Spence has written, and how you as an individual have any sort of race bias within you. I do not consider myself racist, but I am to a degree very wrong. If I pick up the latest novel by Robert Ludlum is there any thought given to who is behind the cash register? answer for me is no. Why then a pause regarding a book on the case of this person Mr. Simpson? I did pause when an African-American was behind the counter. Why? I thought that here in the middle of my day why do I want to possibly engage in, if not an uncomfortable moment, an outright argument. I had been routinely exposed to polls splittig the opinions of the guilt or innocence of this man based on color, and it gave me pause. Embarassing for me, and symptomatic of what the trial, and Mr. Spence's well-written book are all about. The versions of this Country's History are often great works of fiction. How would any white individual take a person of color to The Jefferson Memorial in Washington D.C. and not be embarassed? Mr. Jefferson used his slaves as currency for debts, and other functions that Mr. Spence will share with readers. &quot;All men are created......several typos follow? Mount Vernon was the home to 300+ slaves, that Mr. Washinton generously &quot;gave&quot; their freedom to.........after he died. What a monumental meaningless act of arrogance, that resounds with others like it, to this day, to our Nation, to the States we live in, and the Towns we call home. He &quot;gave&quot; these people something that was not his to take or give. There is a museum on our National Mall to he Holocaust of World War II. Where is the same type of prominence at least equally worthy of note, and unique in that it happened HERE, ON OUR SOIL, to the African Americans, and Native Americans of this Country? Saddam gasses his people, we stand tall and condemn the man, and he doubtlessly deserves it. If we had the Helicopters and the gas in the 19th Century we would have used them too. Ugly fact, absolutely, one of the many issues we need to deal honestly with? only if we care about the length and quality of our Country's Future. Mr Spence said, &quot;it takes a certain amount of courage to live in a Democracy&quot;. Sir Winston Spencer Churchill said, &quot;No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time&quot;. You want to be moved, made a bit uncomfortable with all that you may have felt about this case, want to produce ideas that can improve all of our lives? Read Mr. Spence's book it will catalyze you! Democracy is something you have to want and to work for, it's a demanding system to live under. Name anything worthwhile that isn't. What's the alternative? Francis McInerneyay, to our Nation, to the States we live in, and the Towns we call home. He &quot;gave&quot; these people something that was not his to take or give. There is a museum on our National Mall to he Holocaust of World War II. Where is the same type of prominence at least equally worthy of note, and unique in that it happened HERE, ON OUR SOIL, to the African Americans, and Native Americans of this Country? Saddam gasses his people, we stand tall and condemn the man, and he doubtlessly deserves it. If we had the Helicopters and the gas in the 19th Century we would have used them too. Ugly fact, absolutely, one of the many issues we need to deal honestly with? only if we care about the length and quality of our Country's Future. Mr Spence said, &quot;it takes a certain amount of courage to live in a Democracy&quot;. Sir Winston Spencer Churchill said, &quot;No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time&quot;. You want to be moved, made a bit uncomfortable with all that you may have felt about this case, want to produce ideas that can improve all of our lives? Read Mr. Spence's book it will catalyze you! Democracy is something you have to want and to work for, it's a demanding system to live under. Name anything worthwhile that isn't. What's the alternative? Francis McInerney	1997-11-02
3073784:US	53047425	R2ORQG6F2ROXML	0553106678	306823404	The Matarese Countdown	Books	5	9	17	N	N	An Apology To Mr. Ludlum	Dear Mr. Ludlum, I have been guilty of this in the past, but now Amazon has given me the opportunity to publicly offer an apology. You undoubtably have spent decades refining your craft, and I would imagine that months/years of effort go into each book. So why the apology? I read your most recent book within 24 hours of purchasing it. It seems a tad disrespectful to consume that much talent in so brief a time. The story is outstanding, and can be read by those who did not read the first installment, although I would reccomend that they do read the first &quot;Matarese&quot;. Your book does lack the following, endorsements/pleas from other authors or periodicals beseeching others to buy a book. A recent book was accompanied by, &quot;please purchase this book as a favor to me&quot;, the arrogance! And this plea was from a regular on the New York Times Best-Seller List. Your books need only your name on the cover, and perhaps a title. Your competition/wanna-bees fall &quot;like the fireflys in a heavy rain&quot; as you suggested in your book. Great Metaphor! Wonderful book, may you write dozens more! Francis McInerney	1997-10-31
