272952:US	53084041	R355L24XHN4XBQ	0765303396	726764430	The Impossible Bird	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Disappointing compared to previous books by O'Leary	I bought The Impossible Bird based on my past experience with Patrick O'Leary, including his wonderful debut novel, Door Number Three, which I commented on here, and The Gift. O'Leary seemed to be some kind of cross between the wild ideas of Philip K. Dick with the literary sensibilities of Gene Wolfe, and in those two books the combination worked very well. And that's why the first 70 pages or so of the The Impossible Bird were such a surprise, and unfortunately, not a pleasant one, for it seemed to be all random violence in endless plot sequence without any textual beauty. I put the book down for weeks and only returned to it today because I had nominated for our monthly book club and the meeting was tonight.<br /><br />Having now finished it, I still don't think it rises to the level of his previous books but I'm not as disappointed with it as I thought I'd be. I found the theme, that life is not worth living if there's no death to measure it by, to be interesting, if not necessarily something I would agree with, and there was some explanation for the rough violence of the beginning. But mainly I'm left with a sense that the novel suffers from the all too easy comparison to the movie, The Matrix, and while these themes and ideas were around long before that movie, it now looms large in the public consciousness.<br /><br />The basic story, and I'm trying not to give anything away here, is of two very close brothers with a mysterious connection that goes beyond their familial relation and what happens after their deaths. This life-after-death plot is a lot like Jonathan Carroll's similarly flawed novel, White Apples, in that by removing the reader from the \\"known\\" world of reality, a loss of structure becomes very hard for the reader to grasp. It's as if there were no rules left for the writer to have to follow, nor for the reader to assume, and the result is a hazy world of dreams that quickly breaks down into a series of talking heads. O'Leary tries to spice this up with some \\"bullet-time\\" action (even going so far in one scene as to actually slow down the bullet so that a character can reach out and touch it), but without the framing world, it quickly becomes full of action and fury that ultimately means little to the overall story (in fact, the little logic of the world starts really breaking down when you start to question \\"why does it take these three things to escape the matrix, and why not others...\\").<br /><br />The ending (and spoilers may be here) tries to resolve this, by working around to a reconciliation of the charaters to the main theme, but the gung-ho plot antics made me care much less for the characters when we got to that end. Like them, I was pretty much just ready for it to be over, which may have been what they were looking for, but isn't necessarily the emotion you wish to evoke from your readers.this up with some \\"bullet-time\\" action (even going so far in one scene as to actually slow down the bullet so that a character can reach out and touch it), but without the framing world, it quickly becomes full of action and fury that ultimately means little to the overall story (in fact, the little logic of the world starts really breaking down when you start to question \\"why does it take these three things to escape the matrix, and why not others...\\"). <br /> <br />The ending (and spoilers may be here) tries to resolve this, by working around to a reconciliation of the charaters to the main theme, but the gung-ho plot antics made me care much less for the characters when we got to that end. Like them, I was pretty much just ready for it to be over, which may have been what they were looking for, but isn't necessarily the emotion you wish to evoke from your readers.	2005-04-18
308595:US	53084041	R3BJMVT99KQYMW	0156659751	21402036	The Nonexistent Knight and The Cloven Viscount	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Missing the point	I've long meant to give Calvino a try as his name is always mentioned in the company of other magic realists and fabulists that I like. I decided on this one simply because I found a nice copy used. Unfortunately, I didn't like it very much and I wonder if I just got the wrong book to give Calvino a fair try.<br /><br />This is two novellas that showcase why he's considered a magic realist, and they do meet at least my definition of that term. In \\"The Nonexistent Knight,\\" the titular character Agilulf is indeed an empty suit of armor which even Charlemagne finds off-putting rather than unusual. After setting up that the Knight is about the most perfect of the paladins (so much so that his fellow paladins dread him), a meal discussion reveals that the incident on which his knighthood is based might be false, thus leading him on a quest to discover the virgin whom he rescued many years ago. A couple of other characters--including a Red Sonja-type maid who yearns for the knight because he is perfect in every respect but physicality--and a strange nun narrator who keeps inserting her voice add some side-trips to this search, but it's a strange fairy-tale that wraps up in the end but still leaves you wondering what it was all about.<br /><br />\\"The Cloven Viscount\\" is even stranger, about a lord who was severed in half (down the middle) and in which each half survives, yet one side is all bad and the other is all good. The fact that I can't keep a bad Star Trek episode out of my mind the entire time I'm reading this is not a recommendation. More so than the first novella, I couldn't see what the point was. With both of these, it could be that it was simply lost in translation, or that I just wasn't open to the wonders of the stories.<br /><br />I'd be willing to give Calvino another try, although I think I may ask around for recommendations before picking up the next book.	2005-03-20
343624:US	53084041	R2QAA11NGO567N	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Comedy of Magical Manners	The joy of this book is not in its length, for it is too long, but for the fully-formed world and the arch manner of the writing. Too many people have tried to compare this to Harry Potter for some very superficial similarities: it's set in an England where magic works, the author is female and the book is a brick. But this is not a children's book, albeit those weaned on Potter might find this interesting if quite slow in comparison, for Clarke's method is much more subtle. This is a comedy of manners in the traditional sense. In Rowling's world, we're never going to see Draco Malfoy as a sympathetic figure, yet the complex character who is Mr Norrell comes across as equally malicious as Malfoy at times and yet also quite sympathetic at others. He, and Strange, and most of the rest of the characters in this book are entirely too human, who do stupid things and smart things and they are never quite sure which is which during the action thereof.<br /><br />Mr Norrell is the last practical magician in England, who is determined to be the only magician as well, because all of the others are charlatans and theoretical. He's a vain man, who wants to restore England to glory through magical means, but only if the means and ways are those that he approves of. Norrell is also quite naive, and quickly is surrounded by a pair of handlers in the high society of London who use him much more than he uses them in their employment. A combination of Norrell's misuse of his own magic (in a severe lapse of judgment) and the arrival of Jonathan Strange, a ne'er-do-well turned magician through natural aptitude, who joins Norrell as a pupil, that proceeds to give the book its slight plot. While nicely resolved at the end, it is the examination of the characters and the world that is of more interest, as Clarke does a wonderful job of creating a magic realist alternate history, where the magic, while unnatural, isn't viewed with alarm by people, but taken as it comes.<br /><br />This is Clarke's first published novel, and I'm somewhat surprised it didn't have an editor trim it down, but this may very well be due to Rowling's proof that the marketplace can embrace 800 page novels. I look forward to her next, as this novel holds promise for a bright future for her.is Clarke's first published novel, and I'm somewhat surprised it didn't have an editor trim it down, but this may very well be due to Rowling's proof that the marketplace can embrace 800 page novels. I look forward to her next, as this novel holds promise for a bright future for her.	2005-02-20
398986:US	53084041	R31ND4VSDXV7ND	0152046151	973407263	Sorcery and Cecelia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Thanks for the reprint!	One of the wonderful things about the success of J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, aside from those wonderful books themselves, is that it has publishers rushing to their backlogs and slush piles for more magical children's books. That's why this novel, originally published over ten years ago, finally has been reprinted, along with a sequel called The Grand Tour. I had long heard about this novel, having had it recommended to me by the automatic recommendation service at Alexandria Digital Library, and having that recommendation seconded by a number of AlexLit's patrons. Every time I was in a used book store, I would check the shelves for this book and never finding it, so I was overjoyed when I discovered this reprint on a table at a local science fiction convention.<br /><br />As the longer title indicates, the format of this book is epistolary (i.e., a series of letters between the two main characters). That format can be difficult for readers, as it tends to put a distance between the reader and the action by adding a time-delay, but the two authors (in their major character guises) are excellent at drawing you into each letter and the story. It turns out, from an afterword here, that the two authors wrote this originally as a game, each writing actual letters to the other which the recipient had to use when writing their own. Because these two women were excellent authors to begin with (having previously published books individually), their game turned into a highly enjoyable novel.<br /><br />The setting is an England in the post-Napoleanic era, made famous in literature by Jane Austen. And Austen is who first comes to mind when you read this, as much of the feel of the book has that comedy of manners and social slights that Austen excelled at. Then you throw in the fact that magic works, from lowly \\"charm bags\\" that require excellent needlework to full-scale necromancy that can claim lives. London parties, country dances, and the machinations of mothers and aunts combine with this magic to create a novel where you simply need to read the next letter to find out what happened. I read this in a single day while on vacation, unable to put it down. I then gave it to a twelve-year-old girl at the resort I was at who proceeded to devour it the next day and immediately ask if I had the sequel, which is about the highest recommendation for a book I can make.and aunts combine with this magic to create a novel where you simply need to read the next letter to find out what happened. I read this in a single day while on vacation, unable to put it down. I then gave it to a twelve-year-old girl at the resort I was at who proceeded to devour it the next day and immediately ask if I had the sequel, which is about the highest recommendation for a book I can make.	2005-01-06
538427:US	53084041	RYMOYRDKR8E71	0385503865	63031233	The Wisdom of Crowds: Why the Many Are Smarter Than the Few and How Collective Wisdom Shapes Business, Economies, Societies and Nations	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Not scientifically rigorous, but spurs thought	As a card-carrying member of the liberal elite, I approached James Surowiecki's book, The Wisdom of Crowds, with more than a small amount of skepticism. If his thesis, as exposed in the subtitle, \\"Why the Many Are Smarter than the Few and How Collective Wisdm Shapes Business, Economies, Societies, and Nations,\\" was true, it would put all of my liberal beliefs about the importance of higher education and intelligence used by experts in the service of the greater good to a serious test. Would this book turn me from being an admirer of Al Gore into a Bush-head? The horror, the horror.<br /><br />Now that I've finished the book, I'm happy to say that I'm still voting for John Kerry, but I do have a higher opinion of the ability of the masses to answer perplexing problems. At the same time, I strongly feel that Surowiecki's title and thesis are somewhat disingenious, owing more to a good marketing campaign and titular wordplay than actually expressing correctly the promise of his argument. Surowiecki attempts to deflate the classic book by Charles Mackay, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, and yet only mentions this famous counter argument by name twice and then only in passing. By doing so, he fails to fully address a real flaw in his thesis: when (under what conditions, size, background, etc) is a crowd a useful body as opposed to a dangerous mob.<br /><br />That's not to say that Surowiecki fails to show how crowds can make smarter decisions that individual experts. Through anecdotes and discussion of controlled social experiments, he illustrates how, collectively, a group actually does much better at problem solving, mainly through the use of group error correction, i.e., while one or two members of the group might be off the answer by degrees of standard deviation, when averaging, the group as a whole comes much closer to the correct answer more often than an individual expert. In particular, his discussion of the way that markets work (in this case, not just the stock market, but Vegas betting lines as well as faux creations such as the Hollywood Stock Exchange) changed my opinion of the usefulness of these for decision-making purposes.<br /><br />Yet it is also in this discussion of markets that Surowiecki's argument falls flat, in that he glosses over real market problems such as the irrationality of crowds in a bull market (such as the Danish tulip craze, the 1920s boom, or the irrational exuberance of the 90s) while making the case for how the proposed DARPA Policy Analysis Market (\\"a market centered on the Middle East [that] might provide intelligence that otherwise would be missed\\"). Surowiecki seems to me to be much more trusting of humans, whereas I'm much more inclined to believe that no matter how good a system might be, there's also that individual expert who's working on gaming the system, making it fail in ways unexpected. I only harp on this because I get the feeling in several cases (the DARPA chapter in particular, where Surowiecki's disdain for the congress people who killed the Policy Analysis Market is all too apparent) that he is championing the use of market-based decision making over our current expert-based.<br /><br />Reading this book did make me look at situations differently, and because of such, I'd recommend it. For example, while watching the 2004 Summer Olympics, I instantly thought of this book while watching the reaction of the crowd who felt that the judges for the individual men's gymnastics high-bar competition had not graded the Russian gymnast's performance correctly. They proceeded to boo and make noise until the panel of six judges changed their ratings. I pondered, is this an example of Surowiecki's thesis or an example of mob-rule, or, perhaps something he didn't quite cover, a little of both?n this case, not just the stock market, but Vegas betting lines as well as faux creations such as the Hollywood Stock Exchange) changed my opinion of the usefulness of these for decision-making purposes. <br /> <br />Yet it is also in this discussion of markets that Surowiecki's argument falls flat, in that he glosses over real market problems such as the irrationality of crowds in a bull market (such as the Danish tulip craze, the 1920s boom, or the irrational exuberance of the 90s) while making the case for how the proposed DARPA Policy Analysis Market (\\"a market centered on the Middle East [that] might provide intelligence that otherwise would be missed\\"). Surowiecki seems to me to be much more trusting of humans, whereas I'm much more inclined to believe that no matter how good a system might be, there's also that individual expert who's working on gaming the system, making it fail in ways unexpected. I only harp on this because I get the feeling in several cases (the DARPA chapter in particular, where Surowiecki's disdain for the congress people who killed the Policy Analysis Market is all too apparent) that he is championing the use of market-based decision making over our current expert-based. <br /> <br />Reading this book did make me look at situations differently, and because of such, I'd recommend it. For example, while watching the 2004 Summer Olympics, I instantly thought of this book while watching the reaction of the crowd who felt that the judges for the individual men's gymnastics high-bar competition had not graded the Russian gymnast's performance correctly. They proceeded to boo and make noise until the panel of six judges changed their ratings. I pondered, is this an example of Surowiecki's thesis or an example of mob-rule, or, perhaps something he didn't quite cover, a little of both?	2004-08-30
693162:US	53084041	R34AE2V1B6AZ2T	0312241100	436193085	Say Goodbye: The Laurie Moss Story	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Life-affirming look about the myth of music	Like many others, I once imagined a world where I was a famous rock star. In high school I wrote songs at the permanently out-of-tune upright piano and Casio keyboard my parents had purchased for me. I even joined a band for a brief shining moment (one 'gig' only). But most of my music career was in my imagination, which I indulged by crafting an entire persona complete with transparent pseudonym (Gil Chase), a wish-fulfillment history and albums complete with titles, tracklists and lyrics. At one point in college, I attempted to turn it all into a short story.<br />I am not unusual in this, as the allure of fictional rock bands has nearly become a sub-genre in fiction, including books such as Iain Banks' Espedair Street, George R.R. Martin's The Armageddon Rag, and Roddy Doyle's The Commitments and movies such as Alan Parker's adaptation of Doyle's novel and Cameron Crowe's Almost Famous. Although the real stories of rock bands have plenty of drama, an entirely fictitious creation allows the author to emphasize a particular theme that history might obscure.<br />Such is the case with Lewis Shiner's Say Goodbye, a meticuously crafted fiction about a female rocker in the mold of Sheryl Crow or Edie Brickell. Shiner, who had previously shown a deep understanding and connection to the music world in his award-winning previous novel, Glimpses, creates his star, Laurie Moss, out of his own small-town Texas experiences and dreams while also distancing himself from the subject by a gender-switch thinly veiled stand-in jounalist narrator. The supporting band cast are convincingly individuals and not just foils to Laurie.<br />While the main plot centers on Laurie's LA musical experience, from opening act in small bars and waitressing in coffee shops through a finished debut album and first tour, it is the framing tale of the narrator's search for the woman behind that song he heard on the radio that has a kind of revealing pathos for those of us for whom music is life-affecting. The book has two climaxes--one for Laurie and one for the narrator--both of which are not exactly the neat little endings of dreams but the bittersweet half-conclusions of life.<br />Reading Shiner's in-progress auto-biographical essay at his website fleshes in some of the details of the lives of all his characters. While not necessary to enjoy the novel, the essay provides a rare glimpse behind the art, like knowing that Sting was a high school teacher before becoming the leader of the Police and singing about a &quot;young teacher the subject / of schoolgirl fantasy.&quot; Like much of the best art, Say Goodbye comes from Shiner's real experiences, filtered into order and meaning from which the reader can obtain much more than a simple story or song. This is the kind of book that makes you as interested in the person behind it (hence my visit to his web site and his essay), although at the same time it warns you about creating false pictures of that person based on your own hopes and dreams.<br />I feel the need to throw in a final comment as a disclaimer: I know Lew Shiner, having spent time discussing writing with him both as a student and a peer, as well as drinking a beer or two with him. Even though I haven't talked to him in years, I count him as an acquaintance and quite possibly a friend. I do not feel this colours my impression of this book, although it might be why I found the things not written as interesting as the things present in the text.ting. The book has two climaxes--one for Laurie and one for the narrator--both of which are not exactly the neat little endings of dreams but the bittersweet half-conclusions of life.<br />Reading Shiner's in-progress auto-biographical essay at his website fleshes in some of the details of the lives of all his characters. While not necessary to enjoy the novel, the essay provides a rare glimpse behind the art, like knowing that Sting was a high school teacher before becoming the leader of the Police and singing about a &quot;young teacher the subject / of schoolgirl fantasy.&quot; Like much of the best art, Say Goodbye comes from Shiner's real experiences, filtered into order and meaning from which the reader can obtain much more than a simple story or song. This is the kind of book that makes you as interested in the person behind it (hence my visit to his web site and his essay), although at the same time it warns you about creating false pictures of that person based on your own hopes and dreams.<br />I feel the need to throw in a final comment as a disclaimer: I know Lew Shiner, having spent time discussing writing with him both as a student and a peer, as well as drinking a beer or two with him. Even though I haven't talked to him in years, I count him as an acquaintance and quite possibly a friend. I do not feel this colours my impression of this book, although it might be why I found the things not written as interesting as the things present in the text.	2004-04-25
745018:US	53084041	R29EI06FHXDBYA	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	2	7	12	N	N	No pyrotechnics here	I finished this book over a month ago, and have not been able to formulate my thoughts on it, because I didn't really care for it, but I can't pin down why. It's not badly written at all, and it has some interesting ideas, but there's nothing truly outlandish about it all--it's speculation about, at most, ten or twenty years from now--and the plot and characters seem unadorned. This is, of course, in comparison to William Gibson's earliest books, the more pyrotechnic Neuromancer or Mona Lisa Overdrive. The stylistic quirk of this novel, the oh-so-first-person, seems too studied and not organic or flashy, as it often broke me out of the fourth wall of the novel, reminding me that I was indeed reading and not experiencing.<br />To me, Gibson is like a rock musician who's left his blues roots and has taken to dabbling in classical music. While it may be rewarding for him, and even some of his dedicated fans, others are a little bewildered by his change, including me. Gibson's peer, Bruce Sterling, has been able to do his dabbling on the side, but still release every now and then a work that recalls his original stuff, albeit in a more mature style. I'm of the opinion that Gibson, instead, has thrown out the mirrorshades with the virtual world, leaving something basic, just not as appealing. Your mileage may vary, and I've not written Gibson off yet. At least, compared to some musicians and authors, he is trying to still challenge himself.	2004-03-15
840473:US	53084041	RAZ59VXOYEHTS	0743421922	549137614	Look to Windward	Books	4	32	37	N	N	Stylish and exciting, if not necessarily original	Look to Windward is the seventh book in Banks' science fiction universe based on a utopian society of advanced artificial intelligences and the humans (and other organic life forms) that originally created them, loosely termed the Culture. With each book, Banks has built his plots out of the interstitial area where the idea of this utopia fails, typically in its dealings with other, different societies, through its para-military/intelligence arm called Special Circumstances. This time, the Culture has interferred in the &quot;advancement&quot; of another society, failing miserably, and then must deal with the diplomatic fallout from their actions. That the other society, the Chelgria was a predator-based race with a rigid class structure and a warlike demeanor, makes this all the more difficult.<br />On this backdrop is placed several interesting characters: the Chelgrian Ziller, a composer who has ex-patriated himself because of his support for the rebels who attempted to overthrow the class structure, and wishes to have nothing to do with his old society or race; the Chelgrian emissary, Quinlan, whose despair over losing his wife in the war between the traditionalists and the rebels will drive him to commit the unthinkable; and the orbital Mind known as Masaq', who has hosted Ziller for years and asked the composer to create a new symphony based on the fading light of two suns--suns that went nova two thousand years ago when Masaq', as a warship, set off a chain reaction that destroyed them and the two orbitals around them.<br />As in his other novels, this one has several storylines to follow that eventually come together by the climax. Each storyline is given its own chapters, which some people find difficult to follow but I've always enjoyed, although it makes keeping track of the story much more difficult when the time spent reading the book occurs over weeks rather than hours.<br />It's not that Banks brings anything new to science fiction in his Culture novels; even the Culture itself can be found by looking at some mixture of Cordwainer Smith and Isaac Asimov. His ideas are culled from the classics as well, as in this book the orbital is roughly Larry Niven's &quot;ringworld&quot; mixed with John Varley's world-mind Gaea from his Titan trilogy. But what Banks can do better than those four, and a host of other published SF writers, is create believable characters whose motivations mesh with the unlikely locations and situations he sets for them. There's a reason why this type of SF is called space opera, but in Banks' hands it refers not to the televised soap operas but the sturm und drang of classical music. Yes, there are exaggerations here, but when a Banks' character has amnesia, it becomes a thematic device, not just a crutch to get you from one chapter to the next.ls; even the Culture itself can be found by looking at some mixture of Cordwainer Smith and Isaac Asimov. His ideas are culled from the classics as well, as in this book the orbital is roughly Larry Niven's &quot;ringworld&quot; mixed with John Varley's world-mind Gaea from his Titan trilogy. But what Banks can do better than those four, and a host of other published SF writers, is create believable characters whose motivations mesh with the unlikely locations and situations he sets for them. There's a reason why this type of SF is called space opera, but in Banks' hands it refers not to the televised soap operas but the sturm und drang of classical music. Yes, there are exaggerations here, but when a Banks' character has amnesia, it becomes a thematic device, not just a crutch to get you from one chapter to the next.	2004-01-05
889425:US	53084041	R3RWP3PGUU2MO4	1840242345	586180357	The Blue Road (Summersdale travel)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Who knew the merchant marines were this funny?	I first read Windy's book in manuscript, having met the fellow online through the now defunct &quot;studguppies&quot; online writing workshop. For some reason, we had hit it off--likely because he said nice things about my stories, while I couldn't get enough of his Monty Python-ish humor. And while we stayed connected all these years since, I had nearly forgotten Windy's book and how funny I had thought it, and what a shame it was that he hadn't sold it yet.<br />Except he had sold it and it was finally published, nearly ten years later. I had nearly forgotten about it, except that I finally had an opportunity to meet him in the flesh due to a recent trip to Brighton. &quot;Windy, old boy,&quot; I said, &quot;I must beg a copy of your book,&quot; neglecting to mention that I have no idea where that original manuscript copy may have been misplaced in my numerous moves. Being the kind of stand-up guy that he is, he not only presented me one gratis, but he also signed it with his real name and not just some pseudonym foisted off on the less-suspecting.<br />Ten years later, and the book is only better than I remember. First off, the big difference is a title change, to one that is more metaphorical and about the entire book rather than just culled from one of the more hilarious episodes. I suspect there's been some general word-smithing as well, although my memory isn't good enough to be able to pin anything exact down.<br />Windy was only seventeen when he felt the call of the open sea--the &quot;blue road.&quot; Of course, it was either that or jail, given his young prolictivities which had recently centered around attempting to burn down the school chemistry lab. The education he was to receive as a merchant marine was much more practical, and likely more suited to his destructive temperament, than the one behind a desk or in front of a chalkboard. He joins the classroom of the confined space where he discovers the amazing properties of coconut oil. Windy undergoes the crossing-the-line ceremony, not for the weak of stomach (and definitely not to be read while eating dinner). And he learns about the love of the sea, and the sea of love, or at least what sometimes passes for that when one is young and apt to ship out on the next tide.<br />Like other British travel writers, Windy has the ability to be both self-effacing and courageous, that ability to keep a stiff-upper lip in times of crises. In a manner similar to Eric Newby, Windy strings the reader along on a story that goes for pages to then quickly be undercut by a single line that reveals the narrator hasn't got quite the upper-hand he was telling us about. And, like Redmond O'Hanlon, Windy's travels are the kind that you don't mind joining in virtually but might think twice about if he rang you on the mobile to join in for a quick jaunt next Tuesday.<br />But mainly, Windy's funny, and that's why you need to read this book. Yes, you can learn about the merchant marines, and yes, there's some bits about places you never heard about before, but the reason you keep reading is because you want that next pain in your side just like the one you got from reading just a few pages back. Not to worry, because Windy's patter is perfect, just as if you were in the audience for one of the better stand-up comics.<br />I know, you're thinking, &quot;He's a friend--you're just saying these things because you know him.&quot; Ahem. I dare you read this book and not laugh. It really is that good, and deserves to be better known.the crossing-the-line ceremony, not for the weak of stomach (and definitely not to be read while eating dinner). And he learns about the love of the sea, and the sea of love, or at least what sometimes passes for that when one is young and apt to ship out on the next tide.<br />Like other British travel writers, Windy has the ability to be both self-effacing and courageous, that ability to keep a stiff-upper lip in times of crises. In a manner similar to Eric Newby, Windy strings the reader along on a story that goes for pages to then quickly be undercut by a single line that reveals the narrator hasn't got quite the upper-hand he was telling us about. And, like Redmond O'Hanlon, Windy's travels are the kind that you don't mind joining in virtually but might think twice about if he rang you on the mobile to join in for a quick jaunt next Tuesday.<br />But mainly, Windy's funny, and that's why you need to read this book. Yes, you can learn about the merchant marines, and yes, there's some bits about places you never heard about before, but the reason you keep reading is because you want that next pain in your side just like the one you got from reading just a few pages back. Not to worry, because Windy's patter is perfect, just as if you were in the audience for one of the better stand-up comics.<br />I know, you're thinking, &quot;He's a friend--you're just saying these things because you know him.&quot; Ahem. I dare you read this book and not laugh. It really is that good, and deserves to be better known.	2003-11-24
896484:US	53084041	R1PK5THE6C551W	1896597394	749368739	Jar of Fools	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Well-done mix of outside influences to the format	The artistic influences of Jason Lutes' &quot;picture novel,&quot; Jar of Fools, are fairly easy to spot. The drawing style is European, with the clean lines of Herge of Tintin fame, while the storyline is contemporary Americana of such short story writers as Raymond Carter. But Lutes is good enough, and his story strong enough, that it transcends being merely a reflection of his study, and the combination of the disparete pair make this graphic novel something unusual among the others on the shelf.<br />The story is about a troubled young man whose brother was an escape-artist who failed a straitjacket-river trick, whose romance has failed, and whose stage magician mentor is further slipping into Alzheimer's daily. At the same time, his ex-girlfriend is attempting to put her life together. When these lives intersect with a young girl and her con-artist father, magic happens--but not the fantastic type, just the magic of people finally connecting to life.<br />I hate to simply keep comparing it to other works, but sometimes the mind just works that way. With its magician characters and realistic depiction of street life, it recalled for me Nicholas Christopher's Veronica much more than any previous graphic novel. And while the story was interesting and the art entirely appropriate, the sum of it all still left me with a slightly vauge dissatisfaction, likely due to the somewhat downer ending with its open-ended quality (again, reminiscent of modern short stories, where the end is as much a beginning as anything). It's not going to appeal to action-adventure readers at all, but if you liked Clowes' Ghost World or Will Eisner's A Contract with God, you might enjoy this one.	2003-11-18
966778:US	53084041	R1TGH6EJUVOVTV	1563898888	223581946	The Names of Magic (DC Comics Vertigo)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A nice addition to Tim Hunter's saga	When I was younger, I had fantasies of being a great wizard, of being able to conjure things from thin air with the power of words and gestures. I doubt I was alone, as magicians are a special favorite of children, who aren't so skeptical to search for the wires and trick pockets. The Vertigo series, &quot;The Books of Magic,&quot; taps directly into those fantasies in its depiction of young Timothy Hunter, who can not only perform feats of magic, but is destined to be the greatest wizard of all time. That is, if he can survive adolescence.<br />In this he, of course, resembles that other famous fledgling wizard, and the stories have some of the same moral lessons along with their sympathetic protagonists. Harry Potter is written for young adults, and while Tim Hunter's tale is part of the Vertigo line, suppossedly a comic (or today's preffered term, the graphic novel) meant for adults, in this particular case it rarely contains anything more shocking than prime time TV.<br />The latest installment of Tim's story, The Names of Magic, doesn't really add anything to the drama of his story, but it does fill in some of the pieces of his mystery by answering the question of his parentage. It's a well done adventure, presented nicely, and a welcome addition to the series, but I do hope that there's more to &quot;The Books of Magic&quot; than this as several threads from the main tale remained unfulfilled, especially the powerful love story between Tim and Molly.	2003-09-22
969268:US	53084041	R3C0GRRQ69E4RG	1892065614	551715283	The Mountain Cage and Other Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful satire and intriguing cautionary tales	First, a disclaimer: I've known Pam Sargent for over ten years, and even maintain her web site for her. I consider her a friend as well as a talented writer.<br />That doesn't mean that I would automatically write a positive review of her new book if I didn't mean it. One of the things you learn as a book reviewer who also has a fair number of authors as friends is that adage from your mother about not saying anything if you can't say something nice.<br />But I'm happy to be genuinely able to say more than a few things nice about this new collection of Pam's stories, as it truly demonstrates that she is at home in the shorter medium as she is at the novel. Most people are only familiar with her pair of skillfully done political satires, the Nebula award-winning \\"Danny Goes to Mars\\" and its thematic sequel \\"Hillary Orbits Venus\\" (I keep anticipating a completion of the trilogy with \\"George, Uranus\\"), although she had already shown a gift for satire in the now classic story, \\"The Novella Race\\" (where writing takes on the aspects of an Olympic sport). But she deserves better recognition as the writer of cautionary tales (the true forte of the science fiction author). \\"The Summer's Dust\\" explores a possible side effect of immortality--the effect on what few children might exist in such a world where no one needs any longer to live on through their progeny--while \\"Fears\\" rivals the best stories of James Tiptree, Jr. in its description of a world that follows years after the ability for parents to make a sexual selection for their child.<br />Two stories here are related to her novels. \\"The Sleeping Serpent\\" anticipates her novel of an alternate world where the Mongol horde continued its conquests, even unto the New World. \\"Dream of Venus\\" is an ancilliary tale to her Venus trilogy, a special treat for those who had to wait those long years between the second and third books.<br />While I didn't care for the title story (told from the point of view of a cat, which just didn't sit well with me, especially in comparison to any of the other narrators in this book), one of the newest stories here, \\"Common Mind,\\" is one of the best I've read on the idea of group consciousness, a theme not often explored in SF.<br />My favorite parts of this collection are the afterwords to each story, and the publisher, a small press in Atlanta named Meisha Merlin, is to be commended not only for the quality of the book's production, but also for allowing these to be after the stories and not insisting that they be introductions to them. You get a rare glimpse into the creation of stories in these small bits, which as afterwords increase your appreciation of what you just read rather than \\"giving away\\" the story had they been placed before. It's a small thing, but so many collections make this mistake that I quit taking this for granted.dn't sit well with me, especially in comparison to any of the other narrators in this book), one of the newest stories here, \\"Common Mind,\\" is one of the best I've read on the idea of group consciousness, a theme not often explored in SF.<br />My favorite parts of this collection are the afterwords to each story, and the publisher, a small press in Atlanta named Meisha Merlin, is to be commended not only for the quality of the book's production, but also for allowing these to be after the stories and not insisting that they be introductions to them. You get a rare glimpse into the creation of stories in these small bits, which as afterwords increase your appreciation of what you just read rather than \\"giving away\\" the story had they been placed before. It's a small thing, but so many collections make this mistake that I quit taking this for granted.	2003-09-20
1020755:US	53084041	R3S5U099ERNRBG	0871565854	765015738	The Quetzel and the Macaw: The Story of Costa Rica's National Parks	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Interesting view of Costa Rica	We picked this up prior to visiting Costa Rica. Why Costa Rica? We wanted something somewhat rugged since the last trip we took out of the continent had been to London. I had been pushing for the Galapagos Islands since reading Gould's _Ever Since Darwin_, but that turned out to be too expensive. The brochures we picked up glowed with Costa Rica's glories, and it seemed to be in our price range--and it was. Jill pressed me to find a book about Costa Rica (a travelogue or similar, but not a guide book) since she had done the planning and agent interface. I couldn't find an armchair travel book, but I did discover this excellent book on the formation of Costa Rica's national park system.<br />This is more of a history than a travel narrative, although the author did visit Costa Rica and its parks several times and gives his impressions of the area. It follows the combined attempts to set aside land for species habitat and ecological preservation, from the working of a couple of expatriated Norwegians through the two young university students who became the leaders of the National Park Service. Many of Costa Rica's park works have been ahead of their time, especially for the area of the world in which the work is being done. I am excited to see what I have read about, not only the good things like the parks themselves, but the parts that haven't gone quite right because of the need to balance on the fine line between preservation and tourism.	2003-08-06
1021632:US	53084041	RLFI2DFWW0SWS	1556431821	353091643	The Ultimate Egoist: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon Volume 1	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Learn about the development of a master storyteller	I've been excited by the prospect of this book for quite some time. Imagine all the Sturgeon short stories collected in a series of volumes, and not just the ones that were published or previously collected, but ALL of them. Edited and with notes, to top it off, by that most meticulous of literary executors, Paul Williams (the man behind the Collected Philip K. Dick). Unfortunately, Sturgeon never attracted the same fanaticism that Dick did, and this project was on shaky ground for some time. The first book is finally out, and it definitely lives up to the expectations for it.<br />Selected stories here include:<br />  * \\"Heavy Insurance\\" -- Sturgeon's first published and possibly first completed work. A clever short short revolving around the, then, unusual properties of dry ice. With short shorts I am always reminded of Jack Ritchie's LITTLE BOXES OF BEWILDERMENT, and this story, even as early in Sturgeon's career as it was, can stand among those tales.<br />  * \\"Fluffy\\" -- A few awkward wording moments, but they don't detract from the joy of a clever little twist story. This would have been a page from Jonathan Carroll except Sturgeon has to have a \\"logical\\" explanation (well, OK, *an* explanation--Carroll wouldn't have felt the need for any) for the basic conceit. However, it's still just a twist story. Sturgeon quickly moved beyond it.<br />  * \\"Alter Ego\\" -- Almost a study in what not to do in a story, this previously unpublished piece reeks of the new writer, for it is all tell and no show. It spans years, yet there is not time sense. There are some specifics, but no details. While the plot itself could become something, it's too pithy for this treatment and too pathetic for longer. It's not too surprising that this one didn't see print in its time.<br />  * \\"Permit Me My Gesture\\" -- This is my kind of short short: neat set up, perfect background, and clever ending twist. The notes include a letter from Sturgeon to his wife; in it, he calls this kind of story a gadget plot, and \\"Golden Day\\" a gag.<br />  * \\"One Sick Kid\\" -- A short based on Sturgeon's personal experience, kind of a \\"true life\\" op-ed piece. A bit formless, though, without a genuine payoff, i.e., life isn't as clever as fiction.<br />  * \\"A God in a Garden\\" -- Here is the *raison d'etre* for this volume, for the admiration that writers and readers have for Sturgeon is based on stories like this one. The perfect twist tale--what some people would term a Twilight Zone story. A man with a character flaw (he lies to his wife), a conflict (his wife knows about the lying, and is upset), and the twist (he digs up a god in his garden that gives him the ability to always tell the truth--not the actual truth, but whatever he says *becomes* the truth). Sturgeon handles it all brilliantly. The notes seem to agree. This story--Sturgeon's first sale to John W. Campbell for Unknown--was like his coming out party. Finally he had found a market that didn't require formula (the string- tugging as described under \\"Some People Forget\\" above), yet welcomed cleverness.<br />  * \\"Bianca's Hands\\" -- A disturbing little fantasy/horror piece, showing the depth of Sturgeon's mastery of character, mood, and language. Yes, there's a plot, but the plot is nothing besides the description. It is so well done--this description of Bianca's hands and Ran's love for them--that is is close to erotic. Of course, Sturgeon was no stranger to that genre, although his take on it would not be fully revealed until years later with the novels SOME OF YOUR BLOOD and GODBODY.<br />  * \\"The Ultimate Egoist\\" -- The logical extreme of the philosophical question best answered by Rene Descartes when he wrote, \\"Cogito, ergo sum.\\" Whatever Woody thinks is, and what he doubts isn't, and it doesn't take long for him to break under the strain.<br />  * \\"It\\" -- Probably one of the most famous Sturgeon stories, spawning at least two comic creatures: DC's Swamp Thing and Marvel's Man-Thing. Actually what Sturgeonaccomplishes here is the envy of every horror writer--he invents a new monster. Unfortunately he did it in a short story rather than a novel or a movie, so his creation has yet to join the full pantheon to which it belongs, taking its place beside Frankenstein's monster, Dracula, the Wolf Man, the Mummy, and the Creature from the Black Lagoon.<br />I hope that this project--to collect all of Sturgeon's short stories-- continues apace. Paul Williams' earlier effort in this vein was the incredible Collected Philip K. Dick, and while the Dick was interesting, PKD was a writer who excelled at novels, not really the short. Sturgeon, on the other hand, was the opposite. I learned a lot about writing from the Dick volumes, and I hope to learn even more from Sturgeon.ally what Sturgeon accomplishes here is the envy of every horror writer--he invents a new monster. Unfortunately he did it in a short story rather than a novel or a movie, so his creation has yet to join the full pantheon to which it belongs, taking its place beside Frankenstein's monster, Dracula, the Wolf Man, the Mummy, and the Creature from the Black Lagoon.<br />I hope that this project--to collect all of Sturgeon's short stories-- continues apace. Paul Williams' earlier effort in this vein was the incredible Collected Philip K. Dick, and while the Dick was interesting, PKD was a writer who excelled at novels, not really the short. Sturgeon, on the other hand, was the opposite. I learned a lot about writing from the Dick volumes, and I hope to learn even more from Sturgeon.	2003-08-06
1027119:US	53084041	R3MVCSGXYNUF16	1857231872	517805226	Here Comes the Sun	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Something of a setting sun, unfortunately...	I still like Holt, but he's starting to wane. This is mainly because he is moving away from the Wodehouse/Benson situational type of humor to the Pratchett one-liner & pun type. No, that's not quite the description either. What Holt has been missing in these last few books is a simple coherency of plot. The plot is there, but rather than following one or two characters (Wodehouse tends to follow only one, the viewpoint character), Holt has taken to Douglas Adams-ing and going from direct narration by an omniscient and wise-cracking author to a maniac movement between three or four viewpoint characters. Is it funny? Yes, but the funny is a quick, brisk kind rather than the slow build-up.<br />_Here Comes the Sun_ is mainly a sendup of beauracracy. What if the universe were actually one big machine, that required drivers and mechanics for the sun, regional planners for weather, an idiot administration (there is, of course, no other kind of administration, so I guess that's an oxymoron), and the long- suffering support staff. Well, I can imagine it, and I think my imagination would cast it as a horor novel rather than as a comedy. I think _Here Comes the Sun_ worked better than the even-more maniacal _Overtime_, but I'd like to pass Holt some virtual valium and hope for a book more like _Goatsong_ the next time around.	2003-08-01
1027322:US	53084041	R4ER9YLS81GFB	0586214968	868546829	Hot-head	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A promising debut	Hothead is post-cyberpunk fiction, like Neil Stephenson's _Snow Crash_. Both novels deal in themes raised by Gibson et. al., but in here Simon takes the mileu and stretches it out onto a third world political canvas while Stephenson poked at it with the satire stick. The novel sputters a bit in the front as Simon info dumps the background of his protagonist, Malise. But as he warms up to his subject, and as the novel moves into the &quot;present&quot; line of the story rather than Malise's past, Simon hits stride. Many writers have toyed with the human/software implant (best done in Effinger's _When Gravity Fails_, I feel), but Simon's able to make it new here. Possibly it's because he realizes that it (the technology) is not the story (even though the novel is named after it), but a part of the story. This novel could as easily have been titled _Moonwolf_ (but, then, that sounds slightly like a horror or fantasy novel, doesn't it?). I was thrown off a bit by the sudden impact of the ending, but I think that was due more to my start-n-stop reading method than any fault of Simon's.<br />I did have one other comment. I ran across something early in the book-- I think it was about walking and falling--that reminded me of Laurie Anderson. I thought it mere coincidence until I came across:<br />  &quot;Do you want to go home?&quot; they said, &quot;Do you want to go home now?&quot;<br />Which I can't place, but it's somewhere in _United States Live_ (&quot;Walk the Dog&quot;?). Given this novel, and the fact that he quotes Laurie Anderson, how can I help but look for Simon's next?	2003-08-01
1055066:US	53084041	R362JYI6EL52YB	1592240836	870866709	There Were Two Pirates: A Comedy of Division	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Ironic fantasy about youth and maturity	This is one of Cabell's later books, and a short one at that, running at nearly half the word count of his normal novel. The first half of it is as ironic as his best work in the &quot;Biography of the Life of Manuel,&quot; neatly revisiting a number of his main themes such as the concept of the true love that cannot be recaptured (known as &quot;domnei&quot; or woman-worship), that one's actions matter not so much as how one's neighbors view those actions, and honoring one's word. The second half skewers the first--returning the main character to that lost love, making those actions have ramifications (at least to some extent), and showing that one's promises can always contain loopholes.<br />Cabell's work always has several things going on: although you can read the surface of the novel and enjoy it, if you know what he's satirizing it is much more rewarding. There Were Two Pirates is a mature reflection on growing older and trying to reconcile with the kinds of dreams and goals a person makes when he or she is young. Cabell was writing from personal experience, as one who had seen his star rise and then fall in the short space of 20 years. Like his later books--mainly autobiographical memoirs--this book reflects what Cabell had finally grown to understand: (to be anachronistic) that his fifteen minutes of fame were over. In its place, Cabell returned (not that I'm sure he had ever left it) to what he did best: write for himself.	2003-07-09
1059940:US	53084041	R36XU266B9H4R0	0785111247	484587987	Shang-Chi: The Hellfire Apocalypse (Shang-Chi: Master of Kung Fu)	Books	2	24	26	N	N	You really can't go home again	When I became a certified comics fan in the late 70s, there were two comics outside of the \\"mainstream\\" superhero fare that I loved. One was Howard the Duck, a satirical comic about politics and society. The other was a comic about family, albeit one in which the father was the ultimate evil and the son had been raised to be the perfect assassin, who then rebelled against his father. Of course, Master of Kung Fu also had the big action sequences as well as secret service intrigue as well, but I suspect it was that idea of the son not exactly wanting to follow in his father's footsteps that a psychiatrist would have a field day with if I ever found myself on the couch.<br />Marvel's recent successes on the movie screen along with the burgeoning market for graphic novels has them looking to the past for their future. They also, obviously, believe that since the audience that grew up on these comics are older, that such audience also wants their return to be \\"mature\\" as well, and to that end Marvel has a new line of comics called \\"MAX\\" to distinguish comics with \\"mature\\" themes. I've only read two of the MAX titles--the original creators returning to my favorite books, Howard the Duck and Master of Kung Fu, and I'm starting to think ol' Tom Wolfe was right, and you can't go home again.<br />It's not that Master of Kung Fu (subtitled \\"The Hellfire Apocalypse\\") isn't well done. Moench and Gulacy are a wonderful team and the intervening years have not diminished their ability to portray in flat panels the fluidity and excitement of a martial arts epic. But something is missing, and I think it's the cliffhangers and surprise of the monthly comic. Collected together in this graphic novel, the monthly wait to see just how Shang-Chi, Weiko Lu, Clive Reston and Black Jack Tarr were going to get out of this dire calamity is gone. But even then, it wasn't that cast, nor Fu Manchu, that drew me to the comic, but the ancilliary ideas, just as it isn't James Bond or Blofield that brings you back to 007, but the gadgets. \\"The Hellfire Apocalypse,\\" although it tries hard, is warmed over kung fu--there's nothing in this book that we haven't seen time and time again since Moench and Gulacy took their leave of us 20 years ago.<br />It makes me wary to re-read any of those 1970s/1980s originals, to see if my memory has failed me and that those comics weren't as great as I remember.rings you back to 007, but the gadgets. \\"The Hellfire Apocalypse,\\" although it tries hard, is warmed over kung fu--there's nothing in this book that we haven't seen time and time again since Moench and Gulacy took their leave of us 20 years ago.<br />It makes me wary to re-read any of those 1970s/1980s originals, to see if my memory has failed me and that those comics weren't as great as I remember.	2003-07-06
1089675:US	53084041	R22WRIJECT6WUY	0060298898	804242939	Archer's Goon	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A clever story filled with magic and realism	I had been wanting to read Archer's Goon for quite some time, following my discovery of Jones' Chrestomanci series and generally feeling that she was my type of writer, something that hadn't been dispelled by the enjoyment of a couple of her other novels like Eight Days of Luke and Howl's Moving Castle (which, I believe, is soon to be a motion picture). But Archer's Goon had been originally published in 1984 and no one had seen fit to bring it back into print. I searched in vain at used book stores while at the same time refusing to pay for overpriced copies over the Internet.<br />Then J.K. Rowling happened (the analogy to a force of nature is intended), and young adult novels with magic in them have returned to the bestseller lists and the bookshelves. HarperCollins likely combed through their backlist to find this, and I'm glad they did, for it finally gave me an affordable chance to read this novel.<br />The anticipation was well worth it, too. The book starts immediately with the introduction of the Goon of the title (an oversized ogre of a man) crowding the Sykes household, which consists of the protagonist Howard, aged 13; his little sister Awful; their live-in sitter Fifi; their father Quentin, a writer; and their mother Catriona, a music teacher. Archer sent the Goon there to collect 2,000 words from Quentin, something that Archer...and Archer's brothers and sisters...believe is keeping them from ruling the world. Wait? What was that again?<br />Yes, Archer is a wizard, and so is the rest of his family. But none of them trust the others, although they've divided the town up into different areas that each of them \\"farm\\": for example, Shine controls crime, Torquil music, Dillian law and order, Erskine the sewers, and Archer controls electricity and gas. But one of them is keeping the others from branching out and controlling the world, and it has something to do with those 2,000 words that Howard's father Quentin provides every month. Unfortunately, Quentin refuses to write those words for any of those people--not wanting to help them take over the world--and the wizards begin causing all sorts of problems for the Sykes family very quickly.<br />The pleasure of Jones' books is how the magic is integrated as a natural part of her worlds. While the characters who aren't magicians still see the magic as surprising, they quickly come to accept and even understand it. In the context of a children's book, such ready acceptance of the irrational mirrors the arbitrary world around young people, which oftentimes seems, if not actually is, illogical: Why can't I stay out late? Why don't we ever see dad's brothers for holidays? Why don't we always let the answering machine answer the phone, even when we are here?<br />Archer's Goon has plenty of twists in it, as Howard and Awful learn more about the world around them, including how their parents react to each other and the two of them, not to mention the secret of the Goon. I recommend this one highly.efuses to write those words for any of those people--not wanting to help them take over the world--and the wizards begin causing all sorts of problems for the Sykes family very quickly.<br />The pleasure of Jones' books is how the magic is integrated as a natural part of her worlds. While the characters who aren't magicians still see the magic as surprising, they quickly come to accept and even understand it. In the context of a children's book, such ready acceptance of the irrational mirrors the arbitrary world around young people, which oftentimes seems, if not actually is, illogical: Why can't I stay out late? Why don't we ever see dad's brothers for holidays? Why don't we always let the answering machine answer the phone, even when we are here?<br />Archer's Goon has plenty of twists in it, as Howard and Awful learn more about the world around them, including how their parents react to each other and the two of them, not to mention the secret of the Goon. I recommend this one highly.	2003-06-13
1094511:US	53084041	RGCWKVRNJLWVB	0895941228	783920172	Zami: A New Spelling of My Name - A Biomythography (Crossing Press Feminist Series)	Books	3	16	35	N	N	Fascinating, but also commonplace	A strong voice in both African-American women's literature and lesbian literature, Audre Lorde is likely someone as alien to my experience as anyone could possibly be. Well, at least someone who was born and raised in the U.S. At first, I found this biography fascinating, but it began to tire me about halfway through. I don't know what I was expecting, but I felt like everything was commonplace, rather than distinct and unique.<br />But then, maybe that's her point. That lesbians, blacks, women, or what-have-you, are commonplace. That they are no more objects for sensationalism or titillation than yourself. Yes, there might be some individuals who live exciting lives, but the vast majority of them are the same vast majority of all of us, living quiet lives of trials and joys, successes and failures. This is likely the reason why Lorde does not talk about her success as a poet or writer, instead trying to focus the reader on her life as a life of the ultimate minority in society, who has the same humanity as anyone, but suffers under the present system.<br />For further reading, I would like to check out Lorde's poetry, to see if that is more appealing to me in its artistry.	2003-06-09
1095203:US	53084041	R389POHRA8QSLE	0883781050	395229595	Blacks	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent poetry	A collection of poetry by Brooks, probably the most honored African- American poet. It also includes \\"Maud Martha,\\" Brooks' single novel to date. I liked the novel, but felt it was a little too much for me. I like poetry, but I think I like it in small doses, where I can relax and read and reread it without concentrating on how much time it is taking me to do so. Her fiction is like poetry, in the sense that it had as much to do with the vision of things as it did with the characterization or the plot. This is my failing as a reader: I've never cared that much for description, and the longer it continues, the more likely I am to tune out.<br />But the short poems here, especially from her earlier period, I like a lot. The subjects are strong and powerful, the economy and purpose of the prose admirable. One of my favorites was a poem called \\"Queen of the Blues,\\" which contrasted the stage persona of a Billie Holliday-like singer with the treatment she receives as an African-American woman. Queen or no queen, she still has the blues. Or \\"The Murder,\\" about a young boy who sits his toddler brother on fire then doesn't understand when the little brother isn't around afterwards. I did not care as much for her later poems, which were much more experimental in form and harder to follow in content.	2003-06-09
1095233:US	53084041	RTQ2ZOI8WXVLH	014006690X	822688378	The Women of Brewster Place (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An interesting montage	A riveting first novel that darks to write about the stuff of melodrama, and yet never slips into sentimentality. It accomplishes this because the stories are all too real. The tragedy of these women's lives we see even today in the news and on the streets around us. These are the kinds of stories that make up a revolution, except the revolution has passed. The revolution had a dream at its center: a world where all had the same chances. But that dream has been on hold--deferred, as the Langston Hughes poem that serves as an epigraph to this &quot;novel&quot; puts it. In fact, Naylor is responding to that idea--where is the dream now?<br />I had to put novel in quotes above because this really is a montage (echoes of the Hughes poem once again). In science fiction, they call these novels that are made by linking short stories together a &quot;fix-up,&quot; but that really does not fit this well, possibly because Naylor planned it this way, rather than cobbling it together as an afterthought. Predating Amistaud Maupin's Tales of the City, a similar collection of tales about the occupants of one building, its depiction of the various women who find themselves in the last place that will take them, a slum tenement building on a dead end street, is gripping and emotionally moving. These women are not perfect-- Naylor's heroes all have tragic flaws--but the general feeling you get is not that they are necessarily their own downfall, but as much a victim of the society that they find themselves a part of. Even in the worst case, Cora Lee, there's something there to pity, and possibly, gain new understanding.	2003-06-09
1095724:US	53084041	RP1318HOWLMRK	0140170987	18205728	Changing Places: A Tale of Two Campuses	Books	4	44	45	N	N	A tale of humiliation...and hilarity	I read this on the train to New Jersey and back in January, and I'm sure my fellow passengers were looking at me strangely, because I was snorting and saying, \\"ha!\\" Maybe it's just being around academics again, but I found this novel extremely funny, and I probably will search out more Lodge based on it.<br />The idea is simple: two professors, one at a small college in England, the other at a huge conglomerate in California, switch places for an academic year. The English professor, who is barely scraping by, longs for the materialism of American society; the American professor, on the verge of divorce, is trying to get his wife to see past his infidelities and acknowledge his worth as a husband. But people are people all over, and while both professors undergo quite a bit of culture shock, and cause some culture shock in the academic societies that they become a part of, the real story here is that it is a small world after all (hmm, funny that, but Small World is the name of the sequel to this novel.<br />One of the best sections of this novel is the depiction of a game called Humiliation, wherein you must name a novel that you have not read, but that you expect everyone else at the table/party to have read. The idea is that by admitting not having read a canonical text (especially among Literature scholars) you will be humiliated. It's the kind of intellectual party game that Seinfeld watchers just can't join in on, because it assumes a sophistication. Either that, or it's just snobbery.<br />The other thing that raises this story about similar counterparts (including Kingsley Amis' Lucky Jim, which I liked, but not as much as this novel) is the clever way in which it shifts form within the story. For example, section three is done entirely epistolary, while the ending is written in screenplay format. The novel is also self-reflecting, in a wry sort of metafictional way. You know that you're reading a story, and the story knows that you are reading it, but instead of pressing the point as in some of the more aggressive post-modern works, it does some sly winks and nods in the general direction of the reader.ad of pressing the point as in some of the more aggressive post-modern works, it does some sly winks and nods in the general direction of the reader.	2003-06-08
1096110:US	53084041	R32L39JGAXBZ05	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Didn't live up to my expectations	I think I got too much of a build-up on this novel. That's the trouble with reading reviews and criticism: sometimes the praise is just too effusive, sometimes the lambasting just too cruel. I like to stumble upon books like Nella Larsen's Passing with no prior knowledge of it or its reception, because then I am free to decide for myself its value to me. With a novel like this, that has been embraced by so many, to say that you did not care for it is almost like sacrilege. And yet, when it comes down to it, you have to speak your personal opinion. I found a lot of good things in here, but on the whole, I wasn't taken by it.<br />The story itself is about Janie Crawford, a young black female in Florida who wants to marry for love, but whose mother forces her into a union with this old man simply because of his economic status. Janie listens to her mother, who tells her that love will come after awhile, but soon discovers that, instead, once the honeymoon is over, what comes is a different sort of treatment. She runs away with a smooth talking city fellow named Jody who has big dreams. His idea is to create a town of all black people. Janie runs off with him and helps him open a store then become mayor of Eatonville. At first, Janie thinks she has found the perfect life, but Jody refuses to acknowledge her, putting her conversely on a pedestal (the Mayor's wife) and runs her down (embarrassing her skills in the store). When Jody dies, Janie is courted by a young man named Tea Cake. With him, she discovers love. To end there, however, would be a fairy tale, and this is a story where not everyone lives happily ever after.<br />The book contains a lot of dialect--almost all of the dialogue is in the language of the Florida black community--and after awhile, you get used to it. I mention it because it would likely put some readers off the book.<br />Hurston also wrote an ethnography of African-American stories and myths called Mules and Men, and I'm much more interested in checking that out than more of her fiction, which, as accomplished as it is, just didn't appeal to me.n checking that out than more of her fiction, which, as accomplished as it is, just didn't appeal to me.	2003-06-08
1181957:US	53084041	R38UUPBNEEO4TX	0330315226	607294925	May Week Was In June	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not as good as the first two	This third volume of unreliable memoirs picks up where the previous volume (Falling Towards England) let off. James, in these books, is interesting, yet not as funny, at least to me, as it seems the things he is describing should be. I definitely need to give his fiction a try.<br />The nice thing about reading a writer's biography like this is to realize that you are not alone. It is much too easy for me to think that I am the only one with trouble concentrating on the matter at hand instead of flirting with one passion after the other.	2003-03-25
1182542:US	53084041	R14FC91HCTKAAB	0963363727	756339287	Antiquities: Seven Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worthwhile	A small press short story collection from Crowley that I had to request through Inter-Library Loan. Just seven stories, nothing longer than 6,000 words, but richer by far than the sparseness of the type on the pages. In \\"The Green Child,\\" Crowley tells an anti- fairy tale, wherein the fairies visit our world and lose their ability rather than the other way around. \\"Missolonghi 1824\\" uses the style of the tall tale to explore a being from the past in a somewhat more recent past. The best story by far is the title story, a mystery about sex in a small town. \\"The Reason for the Visit\\" is somewhat pointless if you don't know anything about Virginia Woolf, like me. The fatalistic \\"Her Bounty to the Dead\\" is my next pick in this volume; the ending is as sudden as a car crash, and just as inevitable. I had read both \\"Snow\\" and \\"Exogamy\\" before in other pages (likely Datlow and Windling's Year's Best volumes). I liked \\"Snow\\" even more than I remembered. It's rare for Crowley to write such a straightforward science fiction tale, and this is one of the best. It even has a Neal Stephenson-like flavor. I hated \\"Exogamy,\\" which is too much like the recent pointless drivel that Ellison has been producing. All in all, worth checking out from the library, but wait for a publisher to realize a sure thing and do a Complete Short Fiction of John Crowley before mortgaging the house to find this rare volume.	2003-03-24
1182607:US	53084041	R1SO9RCRT0YFCV	0195067851	326463349	Contending Forces: A Romance Illustrative of Negro Life North and South (The Schomburg Library of Nineteenth-Century Black Women Writers)	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Historically important	Written in 1899, at the end of the heyday of the sentimental romance genre, this was--I feel--a subversive application of the style. Likely written for a white audience, the African-American authoress was determined to counter some of the more pernicious rumors about blacks, especially black women. To use today's terms, Hopkins was floating her own memes, including the idea that the mulatto, rather than being a tragic figure that could not survive in either the black or white world, was actually a strong bridge between the two races. Or that black women were not &quot;hypersexual,&quot; but that the intermixture of the races was much more the fault of white male desires.<br />As fiction, it suffers from the conventions of its genre as much as Hopkins obvious proselytizing. For the student of history, however, its depiction of black life in the 1900s is a treasure trove. Hopkins even recreates the famous debate between Booker T. Washington and W.E.B. DuBois through the mouths of her characters. Interesting as a historical document; not sure that I could recommend this for entertainment, however.	2003-03-24
1182610:US	53084041	R25HYRV3Z0DTOM	0060148527	189779702	Fireworks: Nine Stories in Various Disguises	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting collection of grotesques	&quot;A Souvenir of Japan&quot;--A study of everyday alien-ness, how a Western woman and a Japanese man can find each other appealing, yet still know nothing about each other. Carter captures the disillusionment fairly well, but it never really coalesces into a Story.<br />&quot;The Executioner's Beautiful Daughter&quot;--A disturbing look at a strange group of humans. This story recalled for me the phrase,&quot;Who watches the watchmen?&quot; Except here, the phrase should read who punishes the punishers.<br />&quot;The Loves of Lady Purple&quot;--An interesting grotesque about an old puppeteer and his special marionette, the Lady Purple. The language is beautiful, although the meaning is hidden.<br />&quot;The Smile of Winter&quot;--If a story could be a painting, this one would be on hanging on the wall. As such, I found it interesting but boring.<br />&quot;Penetrating to the Heart of the Forest&quot;--Carter is remembered best for her retelling of ancient tales, mostly fairy ones, but here she shows that she can also delve into the mythology of the bible for her reinventments. Her lush language fits this forest, and the ease at which the story shifts from point to point is simple yet masterly.<br />&quot;Flesh and the Mirror&quot;&quot;--An interesting character study of a woman who returns to Japan and finds her lover less what she had made of him while she was gone. The psychological dissection was intriguing, but there was no story to pin it on, and again, I found myself adrift. This is the second story of a woman in Japan; had Carter also spent time in Japan?<br />&quot;Master&quot;--A bit of the heart of darkness from the native viewpoint. Either that or a really perverse retelling of Robinson Crusoe. Again, interesting, but I do not seem to be catching the point of these tales.<br />&quot;Reflections&quot;&quot;--Wooo, what a ride, almost surreal in its depiction of the world in the mirror. Not quite what I was looking for, but closer.<br />&quot;Elegy for a Freelance&quot;--The idea, I believe, is to go on about the details of life while something is happening in the greater world that is more important. These characters can not see the forest for they are the trees.r a Freelance&quot;--The idea, I believe, is to go on about the details of life while something is happening in the greater world that is more important. These characters can not see the forest for they are the trees.	2003-03-24
1182628:US	53084041	R2GK8ZTPSC9LLK	0571169341	810206933	Arcadia: A Play	Books	4	9	17	N	N	Wry commentary on human nature	One of my classes this semester is a playwriting course, so I turned to Stoppard to give me some inspiration and guidance in the process of creation. I've not seen much Stoppard performed--only Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead and Rough Crossing--but I liked both of those very much. A classmate recommended this play, and it was in my AlexLit recommendation list as well.<br />After reading it, I am not surprised. The basic plot is similar in many ways to A.S. Byatt's Possession, which I waxed effusive about way back in Installment 7. In 1809 in a country house in Derbyshire, Septimus Hodge is tutoring a young woman named Thomasina. In the modern day, some of Hodge's letters and effects are being studied by some academics, one of whom is determined that Lord Byron was present and is responsible for two scurrilous reviews in the Picadilly Review. The academic, of course, hopes to make his career on this.<br />Stoppard and Byatt part ways, though, in the meaning that they attach to the machinations of academics trying to discover the \\"truth\\" of the past. Byatt's entire book was a study of the word \\"possess,\\" and what it meant both for her fictious poets and the modern day literary detectives. Stoppard, however, is exploring a difference in temperament between the times, but how sex is and has always been a disruptive force. It's a wry commentary on human nature.	2003-03-24
1182662:US	53084041	R2QP5F7N02O3P	0812928342	745653670	Cyber Rights : Defending Free Speech in the Digital Age	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A personal tale from the Digital Freedom Front	I started off a review of a Bruce Sterling novel with a statement of full disclosure, so I must do the same here--even more so. Mike is a long-time friend from when I lived in Austin, Texas. He knew me, as they say, when. After my disastrous first year at the University of Texas, he helped me identify the classes to take that would awaken my interest (including Shakespeare at Winedale). Mike grilled me on my reading critically, forcing me to be able to talk about books on a level besides enjoyment. He was also the organizer of the Dull Men's Club, a regular meeting group for argument and drinking that often became similar to the Austin BBS Users Reading Group. Yes, I think it safe to say that he was, and still is, a friend.<br />As he explains his history in this book, Mike was in the right place at the right time interested in the right things. Mike's interest in electronic communication and constitutional law and his journalistic background all brought him to the attention of Mitch Kapor, who made his money with Lotus when they were known for a spreadsheet called 1-2-3. Kapor was forming a think tank to work on his pet project, the rights of people on the electronic frontier. This group eventually became the Electronic Freedom Foundation (EFF) and Mike Godwin was hired as its first employee to be its legal counsel.<br />Nearly ten years later, the world has changed. The EFF has been part of some historic court battles and media frenzy and Godwin was there at each step of the way. In Cyber Rights, he explains these issues by giving you his personal history and his involvement. I can't think of too many other people who could have written a book like this (although Bruce Sterling's The Hacker Crackdown comes close; Bruce, however, was never so intimately involved in his non-fiction). Mike's background as a journalist keeps this from being a snooze, even when the legal hair-splits start looking like a bad day at Supercuts. If anything, some people may be turned off by his relative informality. I thought it actually helped, by showing that these are not dry issues that only lawyers and civil libertarians can love. Mike is passionate that the future of our society lies in the battles we are fighting today regarding what we can and can not do on the Internet.<br />What freedom are we talking about? Those guaranteed to you in the First Amendment, specifically freedom of the press, where the Internet is showing itself to be a new medium, just as radio and TV were earlier. In radio and TV, this freedom was abridged because of the issues of access to a limited spectrum. The Internet, however, is almost limitless, even more so than newspapers and publishers, who heretofore have enjoyed the full benefit of First Amendment protection. The issues that come up in these debates include: libel, pornography, privacy, marketing, and copyright. The Internet has changed the ground rules on all of these, yet most legislation and court cases have tried to link the Internet to older traditional media (likely due to our legal practice of using case law precedents), whereas Godwin feels that a new media, a new press, requires different interpretations.<br />I liked this book so much that I spent part of last semester designing a composition unit around the book and a writing assignment that would use Godwin's issues as a baseline to discover how things have changed since he finished the book at the end of 1997. I did not realize when I designed the unit that I would get a chance to put it immediately into practice, but circumstances have enabled me to teach two months of a freshman composition course this next semester on \\"Writing in a Technological Age and we'll be tackling Godwin's issues in February (in March, we'll be looking at Geoff Ryman's Internet novel, 253). I went by the bookstore earlier this week and noticed that I'm not the only teacher who is requiring this book; a professor in the School for International Studies is also using it as atext.<br />Okay, you're likely not one of my students, so you aren't required to read this book, so why should you? If you use the Internet for business or pleasure, the topics discussed herein are directly applicable to your continued use of this resource. Godwin explains in simple terms why you should be concerned, what the difficult issues are, and what things are being overblown by Chicken Littles. If you've been following these issues closely, this is a good summary; if you don't know what I'm talking about at all, this is your introduction.text.<br />Okay, you're likely not one of my students, so you aren't required to read this book, so why should you? If you use the Internet for business or pleasure, the topics discussed herein are directly applicable to your continued use of this resource. Godwin explains in simple terms why you should be concerned, what the difficult issues are, and what things are being overblown by Chicken Littles. If you've been following these issues closely, this is a good summary; if you don't know what I'm talking about at all, this is your introduction.	2003-03-24
1182669:US	53084041	R2JXFZ33U8U6GK	0879515597	779135072	Hunters and Gatherers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Collecting laughs	This is a comedy novel about collectors, with an oh-so-perfect title. It begins with a long list of things that collect, in all manifestations of the word, then proceeds to introduce us to a weird cross-section of British society. There is the car wash man with a craving for knowledge who decides to collect the entire contents of \\"The Books of Power,\\" a strange encyclopedia set, into his memory. His boss, the prototypical used car salesman, with the pitch perfected, and a collection of knickers from his one-night stands (funny, how knickers is so much more tame than the American version \\"panties,\\" no?). The wealthy auto collector and his wife who collects sexual experiences. And, finally, the narrator, who is writing a book on collectors, and so finds himself ironically in the position of collecting collectors.<br />The plot is an intricate construction that links all of the above together. I found it almost exactly opposite of a mystery novel, in that you have to unravel the events to get to the point, whereas Nicholson works to weave his characters together to show you the mystery. The book has echoes a couple of other works that I had read in the past, but these are not conscious on Nicholson's part, I believe, but simply the baggage I brought with me. It is similar to Stephen Fry's The Hippopotamus, which should not be that surprising, as Fry's novel was also a British comedy about writers. It had some of the feel of A.S. Byatt's Possession, in that Nicholson continued to explore the theme of collecting much farther than I thought possible, and possession is an aspect of collecting.<br />It is a short book--only about 200 pages in the American edition--and Nicholson's prose style is breezy and vibrant, easily sped through. The only thing I could find to complain with was the strange narrative shifts early on when I had trouble placing the narrator in the sections told in what I had thought was third person, but later ended up being first person anecdotal. I've got Nicholson's earlier novel, The Food Chain, and I'm looking forward to spending three hours with it sometime soon.ot Nicholson's earlier novel, The Food Chain, and I'm looking forward to spending three hours with it sometime soon.	2003-03-24
1182674:US	53084041	R2QF96X1CO0907	0441002447	251318464	The Color of Distance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Well-done first contact story	This was Thomson's first novel--she's since published at least one other, Virtual Girl--but it is one of those rare ones that are full of power. I was skeptical--this was my top choice on my Alexandria Digital Literature recommendation list, but only when I sorted using &quot;Daring&quot; as an option. When I finally got the book through ILL, I despaired. It was nearly 400 pages. That's a lot of words to invest in an untried author. But AlexLit's recommendations have been pretty solid, so I took the book with me to Texas for the holiday season.<br />It is a first contact science fiction story, but one in which the human gets stranded on a planet, changed through the biotechnology of the aliens into something neither human nor alien, and then has to act as a mediator between humans and the aliens who saved her life. Although I can't think of another story with this plot, it does not feel all that unique. Thomson's treatment of it is, though. Her alien world is based on concepts taken from our own rainforests and her aliens use organic means where humans use mechanical means. The latter is not as clear cut as it may seem, for Thomsom's milieu is far enough into the future that her mechanical computer &quot;flows&quot; rather than clicks, indicating a level of nanotechnology.<br />Once I got into the book--about 50 to 60 pages in--the characters took hold and propelled me through it. Thomson's point-of-view switches are clearly indicated, most taking place at chapter breaks, and her aliens come across as truly alien, rather than humans in fur. And I really haven't mentioned one of the central conceits of the book, and that is the aliens' form of communication--through color and vision totally, with no sound. There's a lot here, and the ending, while sentimental, is not maudlin.	2003-03-24
1182688:US	53084041	R39YQ09OQO75TF	0671038591	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, No 36)	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Okay, it's somewhat amusing, but...	When I was a child, I adored Star Trek. It ran in the afternoon opposite Dinah Shore, and I was constantly frustrated by my mother who preferred the talk show instead of Captain Kirk and the gang. Some of the first books I remember reading were James Blish's adaptations and the fan fiction of Sondra Marshak. Our front porch was above ground with a nice railing and made for a fine Enterprise bridge in our play-acting. I used felt to cut out patches to match the emblems in the show, using the Star Fleet Technical Manual as my design guide. Yes, I was a kid trekkie.<br />Over the years, I have not followed the Trek franchise. Oh, I went to the movies when they came out (first one boring, second one great, third one okay, then didn't catch the others). I tried to watch Star Trek: The Next Generation when it first came on, but it never captivated me. I went to see the first Next Generation movie, and complained for days about \\"the plot hole you could drive a sun through.\\" I've caught some of the other television spin-offs during hotel remote control roulette. But aside from my early saturation period, I really have let Trek go by the wayside.<br />So why read a Trek novel now? For years, I had heard about the Trek novel that the Trekkies hated. The one book in the franchise that would never be reprinted. It doesn't follow the \\"bible,\\" according to one source, the bible being the all-encompassing document produced by Paramount that says what you can and can not do with the characters. Sounds interesting, I thought. I would check the used bookstore from time to time to see if they had a copy, curiosity being what it is. And I finally found a copy a couple of weeks ago.<br />How Much for Just the Planet pits Kirk et al. against a Klingon named Kaden and his crew in a battle for a planet in the Organian treaty zone that is a wealth of dilithium, the wonder mineral of the 25th century. Due to the terms of the treaty, both the Federation and the Klingons must show that they are the most efficient at developing the world or renounce their claim on it to the other party. The inhabitants of the world get a small say in the matter. This planet's inhabitants try to make the most of their small say.<br />The book is purposely silly--the inhabitants' actions are seen as strange by the starship crews, but this strangeness is passed over blindly (diplomats, as they are in this case, ignoring native customs that do not necessarily match their own). So when someone breaks into a song--yes, a song--the crews take it in stride, even in one case matching the operetta with a little Gilbert and Sullivan of their own (the 25th century continues its fascination with the 19th and 20th centuries--I always wondered what happened to all the musicians and novelists of the 21st through 24th centuries). There are several subplots, in which individual groups of the crews are teamed up to undergo different \\"movie\\" experiences: Kirk's is a screwball plot (how apt, considering his way with the opposite sex); Scotty and Chekov are involved in a golf duel; McCoy and Sulu become captives of the people that time forgot; and Uhura gets to play femme fatale in a detective noir. Only Spock is left out, as he commands the ship overhead. This is wise, because his logical orientation would suffice to \\"destroy\\" the irrational illusions created by the inhabitants.<br />Expectations are dangerous things. There was simply no way the book could live up to its hype, and I tried to read it accordingly. While I did find some parts funny--especially Kirk in the Jimmy Stewart/Cary Grant role--on the whole it felt quite strained. Frankly, the characters are not strong enough to survive this kind of treatment, which may be the reason for Paramount's bible. Ford does a surprisingly nice job of actually trying to contain himself to some logic of the Trek universe; I didn't see anything here that was any more bathetic than Kirk's pledge of allegiance at the end of the gangster episode, or the entire Eden song. Ford has gone on to much greener pastures, and probably can be thankful that this book languishes in enforced obscurity.he entire Eden song. Ford has gone on to much greener pastures, and probably can be thankful that this book languishes in enforced obscurity.	2003-03-24
1182696:US	53084041	R1FDTTUZ1YVULQ	0679759336	150404094	The Fermata	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Verging on bad taste, you'll hate yourself for liking it	Okay, let's get the central conceit out in the open: Arno Strine is this guy with the ability to stop time, which he uses to take women's clothes off. Yeah, I agree, sophomoric. Yet I dare you to find a heterosexually oriented teenage boy (or ex-teenage boy) who hasn't had this fantasy. Even so, why are we getting this from Baker, who publishes in places like The New Yorker not Penthouse. My guess is that it was an experiment--could Baker raise the concept beyond pornography by the style and manner of its writing? He even succeeds at times, finding a poetry of desire and curiosity in detail that goes beyond mere titillation, that somehow corresponds with basic human nature. However, the sections where he does not overcome the salaciousness of the idea are as--in my view--pornographic as anything posted in, say, alt.sex.stories, which posts have much, much less literary ambition. The ending redeems this dual nature only somewhat (the character does change and mature, something that I had not expected through a full three-fourths of the book), but I hesitate to suggest this to people unaccustomed to \\"adult\\" material. On the other hand, er, let me rephrase that...the innuendoes are dangerous when you have material of this type...The Fermata is much better reading than The Starr Report.	2003-03-24
1182708:US	53084041	R23HV1GMXBCSDR	0822210355	282664559	Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You and the Actor's Nightmare	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Have you met the Sister yet?	I had seen this play years ago when I was living in Austin, remembered it fondly, so I picked it up back in December while I was working on my own one-act play (which I have now finished and feel quite pleased with). Durang spears the Catholic faith without mercy, and this would be hard to watch if it also wasn't so funny. And while Catholics may have the most problem with some of this, other literal beliefs might be surprised to find themselves reflected in Sister Mary and her unwavering trust in herself. Since my play was a satire as well, I tried to take as much constructive evidence from this that I could use.<br />The other play in this volume is okay. Clever enough, I think it would be more effective on stage. It could be that I could visualize Sister Mary having seen a production of it, while I came at An Actor's Nightmare cold.	2003-03-24
1182764:US	53084041	RH77UP22284OP	0140124039	1212272	Lives on the Boundary	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Talking about education	What is literacy? It seems such a simple word, yet the view from the classroom is much different than from the person on the street. Mike Rose challenges our assumptions of reading and writing, of how a student is educationally introduced to both concepts, and how so many are being lost by the wayside of this much older &quot;information highway.&quot;<br />The book is mostly autobiography as Rose describes how he was accidentally put into a remedial class due to a clerical error (shades of Brazil, anyone). The mistake went undetected for over a year, partly due to his parents' unfamiliarity with the school system and Rose's own attitude. He was lucky, though, when a teacher noticed a discrepancy between his standardized test scores and those of his incorrect file, and he was moved to the regular classroom. This early experience haunted him throughout his school career, however, and his struggle to enter into the &quot;main- stream&quot; of education becomes a mirror by which he views the process of becoming literate. His experience coupled with his volunteer work with underprepared children, veterans, and college students gives him fresh insight into the question that started this: what is literacy? Rose's experience is that no one sentence is sufficient to capture the idea, and that literacy is many things to many people.<br />Well, duh, you say, but stop and think about the &quot;back to basics&quot; arguments you hear from education reformers. What do they say about the process by which students learn to read and write? &quot;All they need is work on the fundamentals,&quot; is a common theme. But Rose's challenge is that this is too simplistic. Based on his book, we can see that the grammar mistakes are easily correctable--the difficulty that people have with writing is often due to cultural or social differences rather than a difficulty in spelling a word correctly. This is not a popular stand; politicians hate this kind of idea because it takes something that they had a simple solution to and reveals it as a much more complex problem. It is much easier to say, &quot;All they need to do is work on their ABCs&quot; or &quot;We don't need to mollycoddle these students. In my day, you learned the rules and that was that.&quot; Step back from the class, rethink what the purpose of literacy is, and then let's return to the problem. Literacy, especially functional literacy as defined by the government, is a moving target. During World War I, the government defined it as a fourth grade education. After World War II, it was an eighth grade education. So, if we say people are less literate today, are we saying the same thing, or has the bar moved? Is it necessary to be &quot;more literate&quot; today? And, if so, how does the phrase &quot;more literate&quot; compare to the idea that there is a standard by which literacy can be judged.<br />Rose doesn't have the answers, although his book does make a compelling case for more one-to-one contact between instructors and students. The harried nature of modern classrooms leave teachers with little extra time to find the cultural, social, or developmental problem that holds children from finding their literacy potential. I hate to sound like a democrat, but it frankly sounds like the true solution to the &quot;literacy crises&quot; might indeed be throwing more money at the schools rather than a &quot;back to basics&quot; approach; money to be used to supply more teachers to those students. Hell, it's got to be more useful than another B1 Bomber.they had a simple solution to and reveals it as a much more complex problem. It is much easier to say, &quot;All they need to do is work on their ABCs&quot; or &quot;We don't need to mollycoddle these students. In my day, you learned the rules and that was that.&quot; Step back from the class, rethink what the purpose of literacy is, and then let's return to the problem. Literacy, especially functional literacy as defined by the government, is a moving target. During World War I, the government defined it as a fourth grade education. After World War II, it was an eighth grade education. So, if we say people are less literate today, are we saying the same thing, or has the bar moved? Is it necessary to be &quot;more literate&quot; today? And, if so, how does the phrase &quot;more literate&quot; compare to the idea that there is a standard by which literacy can be judged.<br />Rose doesn't have the answers, although his book does make a compelling case for more one-to-one contact between instructors and students. The harried nature of modern classrooms leave teachers with little extra time to find the cultural, social, or developmental problem that holds children from finding their literacy potential. I hate to sound like a democrat, but it frankly sounds like the true solution to the &quot;literacy crises&quot; might indeed be throwing more money at the schools rather than a &quot;back to basics&quot; approach; money to be used to supply more teachers to those students. Hell, it's got to be more useful than another B1 Bomber.	2003-03-24
1182766:US	53084041	R3OMBF6PQI1LH	1573226254	864394102	Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good for the system!	I commented to my &quot;Teaching of Writing&quot; professor that I felt somewhat unarmed in the battle of grammar, having learned to trust my instincts in my past writing, but not necessarily able to define the terms and instruct people in their usage. She recommended this book as an aide. I recommend it to you.<br />The best part of this book is Chapter 9, &quot;The Living Dead,&quot; which talks about grammer &quot;rules&quot; that people have mistakenly assumed as valid. This includes splitting an infinitive, a holdover from the 1800s when a pedant decided that English should follow the Latin in this area. Nevermind that the words &quot;to love&quot; and &quot;amare&quot; are entirely different in the two languages (the infinitive is the &quot;to&quot; in front of the verb--in Latin, it is impossible to separate this, while in English it is often left out entirely). Another &quot;rule&quot; is that you should not end a sentence with a preposition, for the mistaken assumption that all prepositions must be followed by their object.<br />However, one item that she calls a dead rule is still being contested, I think, and that is &quot;data&quot; as a singular or plural noun. In common usage, data has become a synonym for information, but in scientific literature, data is still the plural of datum. The scientists will probably lose out on this one, but I wouldn't use data as a singular in an important paper.<br />The examples are witty and O'Conner makes a fairly dry subject even readable. I don't think I'd want to make a regular meal of this type of book, but a little roughage every now and then is good for the system.	2003-03-24
1182788:US	53084041	R1UY7A8VFTGEG1	0316715441	242540120	Books Do Furnish a Room	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Into the home stretch of the &quot;Dance&quot;	I'm into the home stretch of Powell's Top 100 Modern novel series (in a sense, like Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; this series by Powell is a meta-novel; unlike Tolkien, however, Powell was the one to split his sections into separate books), and it is gaining momentum, mainly because of the inertia gained from having placed this much of a time investment into the series. The title of this novel has to be my favorite, and the anecdote within the book from which it comes is quite amusing--a character receives the nickname books for his statement, upon entering the library of a home in which he is about to commit an adulterous act with the wife of a prominent book person that &quot;books do furnish a room.&quot; This kind of droll, understated, and somewhat dark humor is indicative of Powell's series.<br />This picks up in the aftermath of World War II, as Jenkins and his friends attempt to return to life as civilians. Jenkins becomes the book review editor for a magazine that was endowed by his brother-in-law, Erry, and is also supported by Widmerpool, newly elected MP. Jenkins is fascinated with the novelist X. Trappable, a strange free spirit of words who is constantly in debt and quite deft with &quot;the touch&quot; (i.e., borrowing from friends and acquaintances), yet who can follow up a touch with the offer of buying a beer for the person from whom he just borrowed a quid. Trapnel finds himself entranced by Pamela Widmerpool, but, as readers of the previous book should know, this is doomed to be disadvantageous to everyone involved by Pamela herself.<br />The description of how a small literary magazine was run in the post-war era is quite interesting, and unfortunately put in the background as Powell features the actions of the characters. Jenkins sees the magazine as a job, and his interest, as always, is in the gossip that can be provided by the changing of partners in this complex dance of life. Maybe I'm just a wallflower, who finds more beauty in the decorations than in just who is dancing with who on the floor. However, midnight is drawing near on the dance, and most couples are, as Molly Ivins would say, &quot;dancing with the one what brung ya.&quot; It will be amusing to see if there are any coaches turning into pumpkins in the last two books.y in the decorations than in just who is dancing with who on the floor. However, midnight is drawing near on the dance, and most couples are, as Molly Ivins would say, &quot;dancing with the one what brung ya.&quot; It will be amusing to see if there are any coaches turning into pumpkins in the last two books.	2003-03-24
1182846:US	53084041	R3CI7FKZ8XQJUX	0226677176	972532291	A Dance to the Music of Time: Third Movement	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Literary gossip-mongering that you can't put down	The third season into Powell's &quot;A Dance to the Music of Time&quot; series, and I finally feel that I'm understanding what's going on. Powell's series is very British, and early on I missed a lot of action because it was hidden amongst the understatements and other polite forms of communication. I read this group of three much more closely, and I feel that I got much more out of it. &quot;Autumn&quot; (as my three in one volume calls this group of three) is the World War II years for Jenkins and his life comrades, although in the first volume, The Valley of Bones, we don't get to see too many of his schoolmates until the very end. Jenkins, who waited too long to join the British army and slightly too old for the rank and file, is assigned to a Welsh regiment made up mostly of the men of one small town. The lieutenant is an ex-bank clerk with delusions of grandeur, who is frustrated by the abilities of the men assigned to him as well as his own ambition. In some ways, this lieutenant resembles Widmerpool; both men are driven by their desire for acceptance by society. Jenkins, the bobbing buoy in the storm of all this ambition, seems almost goal-less. Even his previous occupation as a writer seems worthless in the light of war, and he flounders, searching for a place to fit in and make something of himself. The Welsh regiment is not it, and at the end of The Valley of Bones, Jenkins finds himself becoming an aide de camp of Widmerpool, who has become the Q&amp;A (roughly, the military police) of a division. At the end of the book, this prospect seems quite despairing to Jenkins, although he is resigned to his fate, which could be worse, he surmises, but not much.<br />We learn much more about Widmerpool and his ambition in The Soldier's Art. Jenkins, acting as his lackey, gets first hand knowledge of both Widmerpool's strengths (hard-working, detailed, thorough) as well as his weaknesses (vain, petty, unscrupulous). One of the strongest scenes yet in the series is a segment herein where Jenkins attempts to help Stringham, who has recovered from his alcoholism, but only managed to achieve a position as a waiter in the Army. Jenkins wants Widmerpool to find Stringham a better position, but Widmerpool at first will have none of it. Widmerpool feels that a man must achieve his own positions, without any string-pulling from his friends. Of course, this is totally hypocritical--he is quite willing to let people pull strings to help his fortunes, and is willing to manipulate the course of actions if they are beneficial to himself (such as having Jenkins assigned to him). Jenkins goes on R&amp;R, and when he returns, he finds that Stringham's been reassigned to the laundry on Widmerpool's suggestion. Thinking Widmerpool has turned a new leaf, he thanks him, then learns that the laundry is due to be shipped out to a nasty portion of the war. The strength of this series by Powell is that all the action above takes place in amongst three of four other developing storylines, including a rivalry between Widmerpool and a office at the same rank, a chance for Jenkins to get out from under Widmerpool's office, and the ongoing blitz of London. Keeping it all straight is difficult at times. Of the books in the series, this is probably my favorite or next favorite so far.<br />The &quot;Autumn&quot; trilogy ends with The Military Philosophers. Jenkins and Widmerpool separate, each into different parts of the military governance--Widmerpool into intelligence, Jenkins into foreign liaisons. Now that he's back in the city, Jenkins is reunited with his wife and many of the parts of society that being assigned to a country regiment had denied him. Even though the war goes on, and some of Jenkins' in-laws are killed by German bombing raids, the book is concerned as much with the love affairs of the characters as the affairs of the war. Most prominently, Templar's sister, Pamela Flitton, is introduced herein, and the information regarding her dealings with characters that we have met in the preceding eight volumes provides much of the plot. In fact, at one point, where Jenkins is grilling another character regarding Pamela, the character says, &quot;Why do I need to tell you this? Are you from MI5?&quot; because Jenkins, and the reader, has already tied much of what has happened together through the grapevine of other friends and relatives.<br />I don't think of &quot;The Dance&quot; as a gossip novel, but in many ways, that is how it seems. Action often takes a back seat to the machinations of talk, and the most interesting bits are the surprises that spring from how characters do not relate to one another as seen through Jenkins' eyes. Things do happen--bombs burst, sugar gets poured over heads, intercourse happens--but they become stronger by how they are perceived by the characters than their actual effect. I'm looking forward to the next few books, anticipating Widmerpool's fall from grace and some truth and reconciliation that ties up a lot of what has gone before.s with characters that we have met in the preceding eight volumes provides much of the plot. In fact, at one point, where Jenkins is grilling another character regarding Pamela, the character says, &quot;Why do I need to tell you this? Are you from MI5?&quot; because Jenkins, and the reader, has already tied much of what has happened together through the grapevine of other friends and relatives.<br />I don't think of &quot;The Dance&quot; as a gossip novel, but in many ways, that is how it seems. Action often takes a back seat to the machinations of talk, and the most interesting bits are the surprises that spring from how characters do not relate to one another as seen through Jenkins' eyes. Things do happen--bombs burst, sugar gets poured over heads, intercourse happens--but they become stronger by how they are perceived by the characters than their actual effect. I'm looking forward to the next few books, anticipating Widmerpool's fall from grace and some truth and reconciliation that ties up a lot of what has gone before.	2003-03-24
1182870:US	53084041	R2W8U32JXQ5AME	0060987049	70030622	Microserfs	Books	4	0	1	N	N	It will be dated, but that will only increase the nostalgia	I came at this one almost exactly the same way that I did with Amy Thomson's The Color of Distance. It was also a AlexLit recommendation, I blanched at the length, it was an author unfamiliar to me. But as soon as I started it, from page 1, rather than the 50 pages it took me to get into the Thomson, I was hooked.<br />Coupland is the voice of our generation, whatever our generation is: the first group of people to work with computers. This book is a codification of that heady feeling. It praises geekdom, while also shining a blinding white light at the superficiality of this most materialistic culture. It also gets underneath the surface of high tech low-lifes (and I don't mean the cyberpunks--these are the geeks, the ones who stare at a monitor all day and all night, who never have time to make the score as a Gibson character) to show that even they are still human. Even geeks love. If you prick them, even they bleed.<br />The cultural references here are overwhelming. I predict in the future people will use this as a nostalgic device at parties. You can pull up almost any page and find enough brand name and object references to stun even the most jaded of computer nerds. To finish it off with, Coupland here explains his concept of Lego as the ultimate geek toy, something he has elaborated on recently in Wired magazine.<br />This is not just for those people who wonder what life as a Microsoft employee is like. While Coupland captures the feeling for a certain segment early in the book, it is only a portion of what he's casting his net for. What he is really trying to do is show you what life for the young, computer literate college-aged is like, where the world is your oyster, and you prefer pizza.	2003-03-24
1182882:US	53084041	R38HICUKS2BMKC	0749306491	493608555	Temporary Kings (Dance to the Music of Time)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Nearly done	The penultimate book in the &quot;Dance to the Music of Time&quot; series. With each book, I find myself reading these faster and faster. Some of this is due to the familiarity with the characters and settings, people and places that I have encountered before and thus do not need to labor at identifying. But it is also due to the 'dating' of the books. Early in the series, beginning as it does shortly after the first World War, I had little in common with the characters and their world. As Powell has progressed through the years, I find myself being able to visualize the people much, much easier.<br />As in the previous book, Books Do Furnish a Room, Widmerpool continues to embody the Peter Principle in his endless fall upwards, no matter the cruelty that his wife (or Anthony Powell) can bring to bear on him. While I do not find Widmerpool a character with which I can emphathize, I do find myself wincing at his discomfort in much the same way that I can hardly stand to watch sitcoms like &quot;Seinfeld&quot; where people are shown in embarrassing or humiliating situations.<br />I'm anxious to finish off the series, and made a summary statement about it, even though the first book is lost in the hazy memory of a year ago.	2003-03-24
1182893:US	53084041	R313ARN9UDJGB3	081010704X	989568199	Darkness Casts No Shadow (English and Czech Edition)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Harrowing	This is the creative writing professor mentioned before--since I read something by Girardi, his substitute, I couldn't very well forget the man who has been teaching me the other twelve weeks of the semester, could I? Well, actually, I was somewhat hesitant about making an attempt at Arnost's fiction. I'll admit to being intimidated by him (he is a survivor of three concentration camps, including Auschwitz- Birkneau), especially when our first assignment was to write the most interesting story of our lives. Right, I thought, like anything that has happened in my measly existence would prove exciting to a man who was nearly shot three times, was interrogated by the KGB, and has won an Emmy award for one of his screenplays. On the other hand, maybe I just needed the challenge, because the story I completed is my best ever (in my estimation).<br />Darkness Casts No Shadow is a roughly autobiographical story of Arnost's escape from a freight train (carrying human passengers to Theisenstadt) with another young man. In class, we got the real biographical details, which have been merged and separated in the fiction. The escape was initiated by an American fighter who mistook the train as one ferrying soldiers, and Arnost and his companion (Manny and Danny in the story) watch while the bullets rip apart the prisoners in the early freight cars, deciding that they will risk jumping and running rather than wait for the sure death of the American's bullets.<br />It's an exciting tale of adventure, but the adrenaline is muted by the flashbacks that tell the background to the boys being on that freight car, including their former lives and the deaths of many of their family members. I've not read much Holocaust literature, for example, I've never read The Diary of Anne Frank, most of my knowledge regarding this time limited to The Hiding Place and documentaries (but not Schindler's List, which I managed to avoid, somehow). This story is inherently sobering, making one stop and realize the day-to-day horror of the situation. This is not an anti-war story, but one promoting anti-brutality. It is also highly moralistic (in the best sense that all literature should have a moral underpinning). Yeah, I was impressed by it. The ending is a little open to interpretation; I know that Arnost and his friend survived, but the reader wonders if Manny and Danny escape. My feeling is that Arnost selected such an ambiguous ending to reflect the thousands of escapees, rather than just his particular experience. Some did survive; most did not.alize the day-to-day horror of the situation. This is not an anti-war story, but one promoting anti-brutality. It is also highly moralistic (in the best sense that all literature should have a moral underpinning). Yeah, I was impressed by it. The ending is a little open to interpretation; I know that Arnost and his friend survived, but the reader wonders if Manny and Danny escape. My feeling is that Arnost selected such an ambiguous ending to reflect the thousands of escapees, rather than just his particular experience. Some did survive; most did not.	2003-03-24
1182969:US	53084041	R30YF48FQP9KKW	0679723412	461432736	Pnin	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Enjoyable, but I'm not sure I understood it all	I needed the annotated version of this short novel by Nabokov, because I'm sure that I missed many of the things that were happening here. Basically the story of a Russian exile who teaches at an American university (something Nabokov was quite familiar with, in the grand \\"write what you know\\" tradition), the top story is quaint and humorous, the title character being a likeable, if somewhat eccentric, man. He's close to the \\"born loser\\" in his relationship with his University and his ex-wife, but he's not just a simple sad sack. There's meat on his bones, and while he seems oblivious to the tumult of his life, he remains fairly proud and retains a reassuring naivete.<br />The story under this is what I could not quite catch. I'm sure that Nabokov was making some sly comments on University life and ex-patriots, but every time I thought the dawn was about to break, the sun slipped behind another mountain. The prose is enjoyable, and, had I not read two other books by Nabokov, I might not have felt a loss.<br />My favorite part here is a party that Pnin throws as a house warming, inviting over his supervisor as well as friends (ex-landlords) and acquaintances (including one fellow that he merely says hello to daily on his walk across campus). Following the party, his supervisor has to tell him that Pnin's job is not very secure, as the supervisor is taking a position at another university and his replacement may not be as open to keeping Pnin in his current position. After the joy of his party, this deflates Pnin, and he verges on becoming angry. Picking up the party debris and cleaning dishes, he is washing a prized gift from his son when it slips out of his hand and drops into the suds-filled sink.<br />  He almost caught it--his fingertips actually came into contact with it in mid-air, but this only helped to propel it into the treasure-concealing foam of the sink, where an excruciating crack of broken glass followed upon the plunge.Then, with a moan of anguished anticipation, he went back to the sink and, bracing himself, dipped his hand deep into the foam. A jagger of glass stung him. Gently he removed a broken goblet. The beautiful bowl was intact. He took a fresh dish towel and went on with his household work.<br />Here is Pnin's strength, I thought. His life is that bowl, occasionally being dropped, but, strangely, he never breaks.hed anticipation, he went back to the sink and, bracing himself, dipped his hand deep into the foam. A jagger of glass stung him. Gently he removed a broken goblet. The beautiful bowl was intact. He took a fresh dish towel and went on with his household work. <br />Here is Pnin's strength, I thought. His life is that bowl, occasionally being dropped, but, strangely, he never breaks.	2003-03-24
1183048:US	53084041	R2PP3EWE1F2OPD	0140267670	101899238	Life Among the Savages	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Roughing it in Suburbia	Jackson, best known for the short story, \\"The Lottery,\\" and the novel, The Haunting of Hill House, also wrote this collection of humorous essays, gathered together from their original appearances in publications such as Mademoiselle, Harper's, Good Housekeeping, and others. Given her famous work, and her reputation for brooding, intensely psychologically work, this is definitely a departure. Completely autobiographical, with a slight amount of exaggeration, this is an extremely funny book--I'm talking laugh out loud funny. It begins as Jackson and her husband move from New York City to the Vermont suburbs (I guess they commuted by train, and neither of them had to be there daily) with their two children. While there, Jackson discovers the \\"joys\\" of country living, rural schooling, and childbirth twice more.<br />Maybe it's just me, but I always put Jackson on the same footing with Dorothy Parker, as someone quite cynical about the world. Reading this collection, one does not get that feeling at all. Jackson shows herself to be quite laissez faire, flowing with the daily vicissitudes of suburban life, even, heaven forbid, a housewife.<br />My favorite section here was about their eldest son's first weeks at school. Laurie returns home with daily stories about Charles, a child who is obviously up to no good. The first day Charles was spanked for being fresh. The second, he hit the teacher. The next, he gets spanked for hitting the teacher again. Then he bounced the seesaw on a head of a little girl. He had to stand in the corner the next day for refusing to quit pounding his feet on the floor. The next day, his blackboard privileges are revoked because he threw chalk. Around the household, doing a \\"Charles\\" became a synonym for doing something bad.<br />When Parent-Teacher week comes up, Jackson and her husband are dying of curiosity to meet Charles' mother. Finally finding the teacher, Jackson enters a conversation with her:<br />  \\"Laurie usually adjusts very quickly,\\" I said. \\"I suppose this time it's Charles' influence.\\"<br />  \\"Charles?\\"<br />  \\"Yes,\\" I said, laughing, \\"you must have your hands full in that kindergarten, with Charles.\\"<br />  \\"Charles?\\" she said. \\"We don't have any Charles in the kindergarten.\\"<br />As a kicker, the following line appears in the indica to this volume: \\"The section which was originally published as 'Charles' in Mademoiselle and The Lottery is included here at the request of the author's older son.\\"kly,\\" I said. \\"I suppose this time it's Charles' influence.\\"<br />    \\"Charles?\\"<br />    \\"Yes,\\" I said, laughing, \\"you must have your hands full in that kindergarten, with Charles.\\"<br />    \\"Charles?\\" she said. \\"We don't have any Charles in the kindergarten.\\" <br />As a kicker, the following line appears in the indica to this volume: \\"The section which was originally published as 'Charles' in Mademoiselle and The Lottery is included here at the request of the author's older son.\\"	2003-03-24
1183077:US	53084041	RCGIOMG0WCJDX	0316715921	624404840	Hearing Secret Harmonies	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Ending with a whimper	Project Powell ends off with a whimper. It took me awhile to get through this last volume in the \\"Dance to the Music of Time\\" series. Now that I've read all twelve, I think I can make some sweeping generalizations about the series.<br />Although the first book implies that the series is about four people, basically it is just about two: Nicholas Jenkins, the narrator, who is a rough stand in for the author himself; and Kenneth Widmerpool, the man who rises above his station and falls off the ladder. I like Jenkins. His demeanor and outlook on life is wry, sophisticated, and inimitable. Just how an author would like to be seen. However, I did not like Widmerpool, and I felt mad with myself for falling into Powell's trap. I get the feeling that you aren't supposed to like Widmerpool for a single reason: he does things the wrong way. He's pushy, self-centered, and vain, or at least that's the words we use for people who are failures. If Widmerpool had been successful (that is, if we were to speak of him before his fall), we would have said that he was aggressive, driven, and eccentric.<br />In this last book, Powell tries to pull in the loose ends, updating us on a little bit of all the characters we have met in the past, while trying to put the finishing touches on his comments on this generation. I found it anti-climatic. The climax came in the last book with Pamela Widmerpool dropping the horrible revelation about Kenneth's sexual habits. The wind out of his sails, he floats about afterwards, his previous accomplishments now meaning- less. It's a sad story, alright.<br />I'm not inclined to read more by Powell. While I found the series interesting, and do not regret having taken the time to work my way through it, his style was a little too \\"laid back\\" for me to enjoy.	2003-03-24
1183085:US	53084041	R2JA5FHPUR5747	0553099957	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	3	5	N	N	More great SF comedy	I was anxiously awaiting this book, having heard Connie read the first chapter of it twice: once at a reading at the Little Bookshop of Horrors in Arvada, Colorado and again last year in San Antonio at the World SF Convention. It promised to have everything I loved in a Willis story: screwball antics, quirky characters, and an undercurrent of something serious. The book was not a disappointment for me, although I have noticed that many reviewers have not been as accepting. Considering Willis' last full-length novel, Doomsday Book, To Say Nothing of the Dog is quite a departure in style, although the SF elements are the same. Doomsday Book was all about the plague, and, frankly, there's not much to laugh about in those dark days. The new book is set mostly in the fin-de-cycle of England, those glorious days of men in spats and church socials. The actual time period never existed, or existed only for a few people, but the books that have been set in this period are legion, among them almost all of P.G. Wodehouse's oeuvre and the direct ancestor to the book in question, Jerome K. Jerome's Three Men in a Boat.<br />The central plot device is a missing item called the Bishop's Bird Stump. It somehow disappeared from the Coventry Cathedral around the time of the Cathedral's demise in the Blitz of World War II. But wrapped up in the Bird Stump hunt is Willis' time travel conceit, in which history refuses to be changed, and morphs itself back in line no matter what visitors from the future try to do. One of the ways it accomplishes this is to refuse to \\"open a window\\" into a time period that is a deciding moment of history, say, the battle of Waterloo or Kennedy's assassination. It also will \\"slip\\" a traveler's entry point by time or space to prevent them from interacting to the detriment of history.<br />As an SF novel, this is abject failure, I feel. I found it absolutely impossible to believe in the \\"great men, great moments, great ideas\\" version of history--that, as long as these were constant, the rest of history continues to fall in place. It is a little easier to believe in than the Everett-Wheeler-Graham model that says infinite worlds are being created constantly in an ever-growing tree of decision branches. Perhaps I feel it doesn't address Ray Bradbury's elegant look at time travel in \\"A Delicate Sound of Thunder,\\" in which things go to hell because a time traveler kills a butterfly in the past.<br />Willis' SF was never of the hard type, though, so criticizing her novel on the basis of technical mumbo-jumbo is silly. Because as a humorous novel, this book truly shines. Her SF concepts are merely the stage props that allow her to mix an unlikely cast of characters together. Earlier this year, John Kessel paid homage to Preston Sturges in Corrupting Dr. Nice; herein, Willis worships the very text on which Jerome K. Jerome blotted his fountain pen. Both authors work in concepts that keep their books tied to the field, but whereas Kessel achieved great results in philosophical metaphysics on the nature of ethics and time travel, Willis never really abandons the humor. Her's is the more tightly constructed, plot-wise, and is as perfect in its humor construction as those carefully constructed \\"musical comedies\\" that Wodehouse wrote. In contrast, Kessel's has some deep concepts that stay with the reader after the last page is finished. Aw, why deny yourself--enjoy both!g as these were constant, the rest of history continues to fall in place. It is a little easier to believe in than the Everett-Wheeler-Graham model that says infinite worlds are being created constantly in an ever-growing tree of decision branches. Perhaps I feel it doesn't address Ray Bradbury's elegant look at time travel in \\"A Delicate Sound of Thunder,\\" in which things go to hell because a time traveler kills a butterfly in the past.<br />Willis' SF was never of the hard type, though, so criticizing her novel on the basis of technical mumbo-jumbo is silly. Because as a humorous novel, this book truly shines. Her SF concepts are merely the stage props that allow her to mix an unlikely cast of characters together. Earlier this year, John Kessel paid homage to Preston Sturges in Corrupting Dr. Nice; herein, Willis worships the very text on which Jerome K. Jerome blotted his fountain pen. Both authors work in concepts that keep their books tied to the field, but whereas Kessel achieved great results in philosophical metaphysics on the nature of ethics and time travel, Willis never really abandons the humor. Her's is the more tightly constructed, plot-wise, and is as perfect in its humor construction as those carefully constructed \\"musical comedies\\" that Wodehouse wrote. In contrast, Kessel's has some deep concepts that stay with the reader after the last page is finished. Aw, why deny yourself--enjoy both!	2003-03-24
1183093:US	53084041	R1D3WDBPLN7TI2	0060975008	776004119	Gold Bug Variations	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Fiction about science, music, and life -- highly rec'd!	This book was at the top of my AlexLit recommendation list, and I have to admit that Hypatia hit a home run with this book. It took me a long time to finish, mostly due to never being able to give it all of my attention, instead having to catch a chapter here and there when I could amongst all the moving plans, preparations, and actual occurrence. While reading it, I could not help myself from remarking to several people how it was the best science fiction book I had read in 10 years.<br />The book is two stories: the first is that of Jan O'Deigh, a reference librarian at a branch in New York City who finds herself caught up by Franklin Todd in discovering just who is this mysterious Dr. Stuart Ressler, whom Todd works with on the graveyard shift for a computer processing firm. The other story is that of Stuart Ressler, a young PhD who sets out in 1957 to crack the genetic code and falls in love with a member of his research team. The two stories are quickly revealed as love stories--but not just sexual love between the two couples, but an extended love of discovery, of knowledge, and of friendship.<br />\\"Science Fiction?\\" you ask. This sounds like one of those mainstream literature books that's all about adultery and real life. It all depends on how you define science fiction. I've been accused by Jill that I'm the worst hypocrite when it comes to defining science fiction by limited it to what I like. For example, I despise David Brin's The Postman so much that I refuse to call it science fiction. To me, The Postman is a warmed over western, and not even a very good western at that. I was not surprised that Kevin Costner wanted to film that book--its politically jingoistic nature and focus on the strong individual overcoming all was just the kind of role that he would have written for himself, and often does. The background to The Postman may imply science fiction for those who let anything about a possible future be defined as such, but I maintain that science fiction is fiction that contains a strong element of science to it. The Postman is a fantasy, albeit [1] a depressing, end-of-the-world sort.<br />Which brings me back to the book at hand, which is so consumed with science that it nearly overloads the reader. The Gold Bug Variations is not set in the future, though, and that's why most people would question its SF credentials. Instead, it is set in the most recent past--the present of when it was published. A reader that comes to The Gold Bug Variations without a scientific back- ground, or at least some basic knowledge of genetics, will soon find themselves drowning within the terms that infuse the book, but it works because the viewpoint character is a reference librarian who has fallen deeply for a geneticist. There are constant references to cracking the code of the central mystery, items occurring in genus and phyla.<br />Even beyond my personal definition of science fiction, it even matches that broader definition of SF as fiction about worlds that are not. In the end of this book, an action occurs using ATM and other financial devices that did not occur (and I question whether it could ever have occurred) in our world. For the book at hand, it is believable, a strong evidence for a writer creating a self- consistent world-view.<br />This is all beside the point that I really want to make, and that this is simply the best book I've read since I finished A.S. Byatt's Possession, discussed long ago in Installment #7, I think. I still remember the thrill of ending Byatt's novel, of the hair of my arms sticking up in a static reaction because of how everything in the book just came out \\"right.\\" How I kept reading slower and slower, trying to make Byatt's world last just a moment longer, trying to delay arriving at that last word. Powers' novel affected me differently, but just as powerfully. I picked it up one night around 8pm. I was around page 400, I recall, and started reading, and kept reading, and continued reading. I knew it was getting late, but I could not stop; I needed to finish this book. I was propped up in bed, Jill fast asleep beside me as I sped through the pages. I had to know what happened to these people. As the end got nearer and nearer, tears rolled down my cheeks. I had gotten to know these people so well in 600+ pages that I was entirely sympathetic to their agony and joy. That's powerful stuff, folk.<br />I can not recommend this book too highly. It shares a lot of my feelings about literature--that it can be intellectually rewarding and emotive at the same time, that it need not be an adventure to be engaging, that it be about individuals and about the world. I need to find out if Powers' other novels achieve this same intensity, but I guess it will have to wait until I have the time to read the rest of Byatt's oeuvre as well.ing. I knew it was getting late, but I could not stop; I needed to finish this book. I was propped up in bed, Jill fast asleep beside me as I sped through the pages. I had to know what happened to these people. As the end got nearer and nearer, tears rolled down my cheeks. I had gotten to know these people so well in 600+ pages that I was entirely sympathetic to their agony and joy. That's powerful stuff, folk.<br />I can not recommend this book too highly. It shares a lot of my feelings about literature--that it can be intellectually rewarding and emotive at the same time, that it need not be an adventure to be engaging, that it be about individuals and about the world. I need to find out if Powers' other novels achieve this same intensity, but I guess it will have to wait until I have the time to read the rest of Byatt's oeuvre as well.	2003-03-24
1183167:US	53084041	R1PW5ZN6W2SBGX	0062515519	474766599	Data Smog: Surviving the Information Glut Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Overwhelmed by Information?  This book might help	Are we drowning in a sea of information? Blinded by a smog of data? That's Shenk's premise, and I have to admit I'm in somewhat of an agreement with him. It's either agree with him, or admit that I'm getting old and can't keep up anymore. We are of an age, however--he relates how his first computer was a Macintosh in 1984. He talks about becoming involved in the early days of digital communication (back then, there was Compu$erve, the $ource, and local BBSes). He went on the reporting route, while I took the technology route. Now we both feel surrounded by too much stuff, data being the prime component. Shenk blames it on the new medium, whereas I think that maybe it is the nature of our general society.<br />Don't get me wrong. I love data. Databases are your friend, and they've certainly been mine, as I make my living off maintaining them, writing interfaces for them, and creating reports from them. The problem seems to go back to something much older than the Internet, but to the early days of computing. There is a term, not in much use today, called GIGO: Garbage In, Garbage Out. Too much data being stored in databases these days was dumped there, without editing, without sorting, without review. Just because modern tools allow you access to data in these storage areas better, faster, and cheaper, does not mean that data poorly stored has any more value. I am sure many of you have run into a case where the computer was supposed to help you with a task, but instead it just seems that you were able to process more data, not necessarily do the job quicker or easier. More data, as Shenk discusses, is not a solution. Better data would be, but no one is providing quality.<br />And this is where I say the problem is not the technology but the society. Americans have a hard time with quality. We give it lip service, but what we really want is quantity. The tagline for Godzilla, \\"Size matters,\\" was perfect for us. Yes, we want more. We want a biggie fries and a biggie shake. We want to Super Size that Extra Value Meal. We purchase Range Rovers and the only range we rove is the median when there's a traffic jam. Let's go to CostCo and get the five-pound jar of spaghetti sauce, even though we only eat spaghetti at home once every two months. We'll take 52 channels of crap on the cable, although only four are worth watching. Bigger, we imply, is always better. Our hardware store here has a tagline that says they have \\"more of everything.\\"<br />Shenk says, more is less. You are a limited creature; you can only handle a limited amount of input. Why not get some quality input for a change? I like the idea, and I have to admit that Jill and I were already working towards this goal before our move. Jill calls it \\"divesting ourselves of the material culture,\\" but mainly it's just getting rid of stuff. Why did we have 700 CDs? We couldn't listen to them all, and hadn't listened to more than 5% in the last year. Why did we have 2000 books--did we intend to reference or reread all of them? I have been keeping bank and billing records for the last 15 years? Why? We cleaned out the closet, evaluating the things we really needed to meet our goals. And it isn't that much. Why did we have all that stuff. Because we were being good little members of the consumer society.<br />This simplification of the life style is one of Shenk's answers to Data Smog. The others include being your own filter (limit your inputs--cut off the TV, unsubscribe from those lists [well, except from mine]), being your own editor (take your time to understand what you read and hear, don't settle for sound bites), become a generalist (Robert Heinlein said, \\"Specialization is for insects.\\"), and, lastly, take part in government rather than forsaking it. These antidotes are strong medicine towards regaining control of your life. Shenk probably didn't mean this as a self-help book, but if the tool pouch fits....ake. We want to Super Size that Extra Value Meal. We purchase Range Rovers and the only range we rove is the median when there's a traffic jam. Let's go to CostCo and get the five-pound jar of spaghetti sauce, even though we only eat spaghetti at home once every two months. We'll take 52 channels of crap on the cable, although only four are worth watching. Bigger, we imply, is always better. Our hardware store here has a tagline that says they have \\"more of everything.\\"<br />Shenk says, more is less. You are a limited creature; you can only handle a limited amount of input. Why not get some quality input for a change? I like the idea, and I have to admit that Jill and I were already working towards this goal before our move. Jill calls it \\"divesting ourselves of the material culture,\\" but mainly it's just getting rid of stuff. Why did we have 700 CDs? We couldn't listen to them all, and hadn't listened to more than 5% in the last year. Why did we have 2000 books--did we intend to reference or reread all of them? I have been keeping bank and billing records for the last 15 years? Why? We cleaned out the closet, evaluating the things we really needed to meet our goals. And it isn't that much. Why did we have all that stuff. Because we were being good little members of the consumer society.<br />This simplification of the life style is one of Shenk's answers to Data Smog. The others include being your own filter (limit your inputs--cut off the TV, unsubscribe from those lists [well, except from mine]), being your own editor (take your time to understand what you read and hear, don't settle for sound bites), become a generalist (Robert Heinlein said, \\"Specialization is for insects.\\"), and, lastly, take part in government rather than forsaking it. These antidotes are strong medicine towards regaining control of your life. Shenk probably didn't mean this as a self-help book, but if the tool pouch fits....	2003-03-24
1183170:US	53084041	R2CHY1FL1NMHWE	038531485X	335284511	The Pirate's Daughter	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An interesting mixed bag	I picked this up a year ago while browsing, intrigued by the cover and the title. It looked interesting, but I was reminded of my towering shelf of books to be read and so did not buy it then. The professor for my creative writing workshop class was going to be out of town for a class period, and announced that he was having a guest instructor for that class, who turned out to be Robert Girardi. The to-be-read shelf be damned, I like to know whose instructing I'm getting, so I went out and found this and his first novel, Madeleine's Ghost.<br />The story here is fairly straight-forward: Wilson Lander is a young man with a sense of dread, unable to complete his doctorate in archaelogy, and is working in the big city as a clerk to his girlfriend. He stumbles upon Cricket Page, who leads him into an exotic adventure as a galley cook on a tychoon's yacht called the Compound Interest. But Cricket is more than she seems (the title gives it away), and Wilson promises to be more than the nebbish than he initially seems.<br />I'm a pirate fan. There's something about the outlaw on the sea that intrigues me more than an outlaw on the land. Two of my favorites in this area are Tim Powers' On Stranger Tides and A.A. Attanasio's Wyvern. Long-time readers will remember a fairly lengthy discussion in 1992 or 1993 about Michael Scott Rohan's pirate book, Chase the Morning. So I was predisposed to liking this book, even though this describes a modern day piracy.<br />And I did like this book a lot--up until a certain point, the break between sections five and six, where Girardi lost my sense of disbelief in what the characters actually do. The motivations of the characters in other sections are a little hard to believe, but from a steady diet of a slightly more fantastical nature leads me to extend a bit more leeway to an author. The manner in which the story is told is very movie-like, and it was no surprise to me to discover that Girardi is also a screenwriter.<br />After our class meeting, I talked with Girardi about his book. During class he had made a disparaging comment regarding &quot;genre,&quot; which seemed to me out of place, considering the fact that this book is basically an adventure story set in the modern era and his first novel is a ghost tale. His definition of genre (learned from his time at the Iowa Writer's Workshop, I think) was books that are essentially adventure and nothing more. Of course, as a &quot;fan&quot; of science fiction, I have always used genre as the word to describe the marketing labels placed on the various &quot;types&quot; of fiction: mainstream, SF, mystery. Later in the semester, I discovered that there is a third usage of genre: describing the &quot;forms&quot; of written communication, i.e., poetry, fiction, essay, biography, advertising, etc. From all this I have deduced that genre is a highly overused word and I have made myself a resolution to discontinue its use, in an attempt to promote more understanding between the three camps that have adopted it into their discourse.s meeting, I talked with Girardi about his book. During class he had made a disparaging comment regarding &quot;genre,&quot; which seemed to me out of place, considering the fact that this book is basically an adventure story set in the modern era and his first novel is a ghost tale. His definition of genre (learned from his time at the Iowa Writer's Workshop, I think) was books that are essentially adventure and nothing more. Of course, as a &quot;fan&quot; of science fiction, I have always used genre as the word to describe the marketing labels placed on the various &quot;types&quot; of fiction: mainstream, SF, mystery. Later in the semester, I discovered that there is a third usage of genre: describing the &quot;forms&quot; of written communication, i.e., poetry, fiction, essay, biography, advertising, etc. From all this I have deduced that genre is a highly overused word and I have made myself a resolution to discontinue its use, in an attempt to promote more understanding between the three camps that have adopted it into their discourse.	2003-03-24
1183308:US	53084041	R14L9X07NY7LET	0316914363	797600442	Whit	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Banks can make almost anything interesting	I'm trying to catch up on Banks--I had four novels of his on my to-be-read shelf, and thought it time to get to them. I do not know why I was procrastinating, for Banks is one of my favorite authors.<br />The general consensus about this book from the usual sources was that it was one of Banks' minor works, if not his worst since Canal Dreams, roundly despised by Banks fans. Personally, the one Banks novel that I have not cared for was The Bridge, and I suspect that my opinion of that book would change if I read it today. While I can not put Whit next to The Player of Games, Espedair Street, or The Crow Road as one of my favorites, I enjoyed this book much more than I expected given its reputation.<br />The title refers to the last name of the main character, one she shares with several other characters in the book including her grandfather, Salvador Whit, the charismatic leader of the Luskenyter cult. One of the cult doctrines is the reverence for those born on Leap Day, and the Beloved Isis is a third generation Leapyearian. The cult is preparing for one of their special events, the Festival of Love, when they get a letter from Morag, Isis's cousin who is an international music soloist and the festival guest of honor, claiming that she is an apostate (i.e., no longer a cult believer) and will not be attending the Festival. Isis is elected to go among the Unsaved (thus the subtitle) to find Morag and bring her back into the fold.<br />Isis starts off somewhat naive, it not as oblivious as Candide, at least as innocent. It is not hard to see that her growth as a character in this novel is to lose that naivete, to grow up and confront her faith, the world, and the &quot;truth.&quot; I loved the endless revelations about the Cult and its background, and the plot had plenty of twists and turns that prevented you from predicting the outcome. If I had to quibble, though, it would have to be in the quick metamorphosis Isis goes through, from innocent and incredulous to world wise and tough. You get some glimpses--foreshadowing--that Isis is not just a waif, but the suddenness of the change is still a little jarring.<br />I can see that this might not be everyone's cup of tea, the subplot regarding faith, trust, and truth appealed to me. Banks is brave to have a main character who is not only religious, but not a follower of a major denomination or belief. I'm convinced the guy could make almost anybody appealing.rld wise and tough. You get some glimpses--foreshadowing--that Isis is not just a waif, but the suddenness of the change is still a little jarring.<br />I can see that this might not be everyone's cup of tea, the subplot regarding faith, trust, and truth appealed to me. Banks is brave to have a main character who is not only religious, but not a follower of a major denomination or belief. I'm convinced the guy could make almost anybody appealing.	2003-03-24
1183415:US	53084041	R2ZKEDJ6YWS7XF	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	First Impressions might have been a better title	I am ashamed to admit it, but, yes, I have been reading for over 25 years and this is the very first time that I have ever read Jane Austen. None of her novels were required in high school, no literature class that I took in college used any as a text, and I had never thought to pursue her for sheer entertainment. It is quite sad, actually, for I find Austen much more accessible than some of the classic that I did have to wade through, including Wuthering Heights and The Scarlet Letter. Austen has recently seen a resurgence in popularity, likely due to the recent BBC and Hollywood adaptations of her books, including the Emma Thompson vehicle Sense and Sensibility.<br />Pride and Prejudice was Austen's second novel, following the success of Sense and Sensibility. Its original title was--and I'm not making this up a la Dave Barry--First Impressions. To my taste, this would have been a much more apt title, but it had been used by another author before Austen could get this book in print. The story is about the five Bennet sisters, who, while not orphaned or penniless, have few choices as to husbands because their father's estate is entailed on a male heir, and they have no brother. The father seems to have resigned them to their fate, but their mother wastes no opportunity to arrange a good match for her daughters. The two oldest--Jane and Elizabeth--are level-headed and quite understand the position that they are in, but the youngest three are flirtatious and giddy, a bad combination in winning society's eye. Disasters ensue when eligible bachelors Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy come to town, as well as the officers of the ---shire regiment.<br />The reason First Impressions would have been a better title is that each character--not just the main two, Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy--is constantly assuming things about other characters based on their initial reception of them. Mr. Darcy, in the country, is too proud to dance with any of the young women because of his mistaken impression that they are all declasse; Elizabeth forms her prejudices about Mr. Darcy because of her first meeting with him and this dance snub. The townsfolk think the best of Mr. Wickham because his first impression on everyone is quite favorable. And on and on and on.<br />Very interesting, but it goes on forever, as the characters can never be quite direct given the mores of the time. That does not mean that they can not be insulting, as a particularly vicious exchange between Lady Catherine and Elizabeth shows. I'm glad that I have now broken my Austen fast, but I think that I can wait awhile before digesting any more.ession that they are all declasse; Elizabeth forms her prejudices about Mr. Darcy because of her first meeting with him and this dance snub. The townsfolk think the best of Mr. Wickham because his first impression on everyone is quite favorable. And on and on and on.<br />Very interesting, but it goes on forever, as the characters can never be quite direct given the mores of the time. That does not mean that they can not be insulting, as a particularly vicious exchange between Lady Catherine and Elizabeth shows. I'm glad that I have now broken my Austen fast, but I think that I can wait awhile before digesting any more.	2003-03-24
1183441:US	53084041	R3AGJKOTJTL73D	0874772362	389117464	Writing the Natural Way	Books	3	31	40	N	N	Helpful for writers who are more visually oriented	Right-brain studies have been used for years (well, okay, the last ten-twenty years) to enhance the teaching process for visual artists, but Rico was the first to extend this research into the realm of the writer. You cannot deny her scholarship nor her science--the brain hemisphere theory is quite accepted today, and has been proven in a number of ways. So how does this theory help one become a writer.<br />First off, as any author will tell you, writers write. Rico cannot give you a magic spell that will somehow change you into a New York Times Bestseller overnight. But if you have ever suffered from the dreaded &quot;writer's block&quot; or had difficulty in spurring yourself to write on a particular subject, Rico provides some exercises here that will help you &quot;tap&quot; into the creative side of your brain. The basis for all her exercises is what she terms the cluster--a free association on the subject that brings in emotions, colors, sounds, and taste to the visual world of your subject. Getting you past your left-brain adherence on perfection and sequential order is her first goal, then awakening you to the connections that you are capable of through creative tension, recurrences, and rhythm.<br />Okay, I'll admit that I my personal view of Rico is not as positive as the above might appear. While I saw the advantages of everything she puts forward, I found her presentation of these ideas to be tinged with a slight &quot;new age&quot; flavor, and the only new thing she really brings to the table is the &quot;cluster&quot; idea. I have used it since reading about it, and I have found it useful, but I'm not sure it was worth the 280+ pages to obtain this one idea. On the other hand, I've never really been &quot;stuck&quot; for words (I'm sure you could not have guessed that).<br />A new revision of this book is due this year, and I am interested in how Rico responds to the 90s (or, even, if she does).	2003-03-24
1183507:US	53084041	R2LBW1OLVOUM9L	0451527895	89020966	Lysistrata (Signet Classics)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	If only women would rule the world...	I took a class from Parker over ten years ago during my dark days at the University of Texas at Austin. He taught a course in the Classics department called \\"Parageography,\\" which was about the geography of imaginary lands. I think it was an excuse for him to really get into the literature that he loved. It was a fun class, made all the more so because Parker allowed me to do the class project, wherein we created our own imaginary land, in hypertext (this was, obviously before the WWW, and hypertext had not gotten much play--I can't even remember the program I used on the Mac to create it).<br />Parker's claim to fame as a scholar of classics, however, was his modern translations of Aristophanes, including this famous satire on how women could stop war by withholding sex. The translation is good, but still somewhat problematic for today's audiences--many of the assumptions of the story are based on the Greek and Trojan cultures, so a modern reader must check the notes every once and awhile to get the full nuance of the poetry. On the other hand, Parker's goal was to not censor the ribaldry, and so there's plenty here for an audience to realize that, even in 2,000+ years, some things really never change.	2003-03-24
1183533:US	53084041	R37SSGIV6R85VS	0374522596	875149572	The Control of Nature	Books	3	19	24	N	N	A bit unfocused, but fascinating all the same	The message is the medium of The Control of Nature. In a series of three essays, each regarding a different geographical region, McPhee shows that in the war between man and nature it's a case of the humans on horseback facing a blitzkrieg of geological heavy artillery. What amazes McPhee, and thus what comes across to the reader, is the arrogant hubris of the people who feel that nature can be controlled. One essay is about the Mississippi river, and how it has been channeled by dikes and levees to stay on the course that it has been set on since the early part of this century, although anyone can see that it is in its nature to change course. Essay two is about the lava flows in Iceland, where the engineers used the cooling power of the sea to divert the flow from a township--at least for now. And, last, McPhee covers the shifting mountainsides of southern California--not the mud of the beach homes, but the Santa Gabriel mountains which are so geologically new that the rocks that they consist of are more akin to sand. In each essay, the humans have fought the battle to a draw, but the enemy is worse than any evil fantasy. Nature is unsleeping, its forces are legion, and each battle it suffers no losses. The expense, in both money and lives, of trying to withhold the inevitable seems to doom the humans to lose. But they do not give up.<br />It's not that I do not like McPhee. On the contrary, I find his subjects fascinating, and his writing vivid. I just expected something more tight and focused.	2003-03-24
1183542:US	53084041	RPGKGFYCQALXC	0374519323	147900873	La Place de la Concorde Suisse	Books	3	10	16	N	N	A portrait of Switzerland	La Place de la Concorde Suisse is about the Swiss army, but, as they say, when you talk about Switzerland, you talk about their defense. Because everyone in Switzerland is in the army, you are talking about their country. An incredibly rich country, and thus, an incredibly paranoid country. Although many people are now looking at the Swiss, and especially their banks, with new eyes following the revelations of Nazi war booty being hid within their anonymous, numbered accounts, McPhee put them in the spotlight a decade earlier here. While his light is not as bright as some of those today, he did discover some interesting bits which had been hid by shadows before, like their placement of explosives (or identification of where to place such) under each bridge into the country, a discussion of the surreptitious bombing they suffered under Allied planes in the war, and the old boys network that links the army and the industry. At the end, you don't necessarily emerge with a message, but rather a portrait of the country.	2003-03-24
1184501:US	53084041	R1UXDP8WA9IQ3F	014005667X	10328717	A Nervous Splendor: Vienna 1888-1889	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A limited time period, a fascinating history	Bob Gore loaned this book to us in response to our plea for information about Austria and Switzerland. I was unsure of its interest for me at first, fearing that it might be little more than a condensed version of the scholarly work that kept popping up on all my book searches called The History of the Hapsburgs from way too long ago until 1918 (I paraphrase from memory). On the other hand, I had to admire an historian who limited himself not only to one city, but to a nine month time period. That's like having a jazz musician limit herself to a ten-second solo.<br />The limitations paid off, however, mainly because Morton's selection of those few months enable him to cover a highly significant moment of Austrian history, but also to bring in a cast of characters that would normally have been only peripheral to the usual story of history. The reader, thus, gets a sense of not only the political tenor of the times, but also an insight into the medical (through the description of a young Sigmund Freud), the literary (Theodor Herzl and Arthur Schnitzler), the musical (Johannes Brahams and Anton Bruckner), the artistry (Gustav Klimt), and the everyday (a street-player known as the King of Birds). History is not a novel, so these lives do not intertwine as they would in a fiction, but each does bring an expanded understanding of what Vienna was like.<br />The central \\"story\\" to the book is Crown Prince Rudolf and his frustration with being heir to the Austrian empire with nothing to do except ceremonial duties. Morton depicts Rudolf as a freethinker who might have changed the course of history had it not been for Emperor Franz Joseph's wonderful health. Instead, Rudolf, in the course of nine months, goes from being a revolutionary who must have his writing published under someone else's name to a drug-addled conspirator, who, with his nubile, fashion-setting mistress, decides to commit double-suicide. The tragedy is heir-apparent (pause for groans to subside), as Rudolf would have likely been much more palatable to the subjects of Sarajevo than Franz Ferdinand.<br />I must admit to being fairly ignorant of European history (okay, I was schooled in America--I'm pretty ignorant of history, per se), so when Morton drops the fact halfway through A Nervous Splendor that Rudolf commits suicide, I was surprised. But such is the difference between history and fiction. Morton expects the reader to already be aware of the high points in his narrative, and seeks to illustrate the base of those icebergs (this is also why I don't feel guilty for discussing the suicide myself). He succeeds, and I now am quite interested in his follow-up to this book, a volume called Thunder at Twilight which depicts Austria right before World War I.would have likely been much more palatable to the subjects of Sarajevo than Franz Ferdinand.<br />I must admit to being fairly ignorant of European history (okay, I was schooled in America--I'm pretty ignorant of history, per se), so when Morton drops the fact halfway through A Nervous Splendor that Rudolf commits suicide, I was surprised. But such is the difference between history and fiction. Morton expects the reader to already be aware of the high points in his narrative, and seeks to illustrate the base of those icebergs (this is also why I don't feel guilty for discussing the suicide myself). He succeeds, and I now am quite interested in his follow-up to this book, a volume called Thunder at Twilight which depicts Austria right before World War I.	2003-03-22
1184521:US	53084041	R2XGI9M8L18JK5	0060974788	825546119	If You Can't Live Without Me, Why Aren't You Dead Yet?!	Books	1	13	20	N	N	I wanted to like it, but...	I really wanted to like this book. With a great title like that, I expected it to be a comic look at the relations between men and women, likely coming hard down on the side of women. Instead, it is a mismash of New York angst mixed with the fading regret of yet another runaway from the 60s. In short, choppy doses (each section was originally published as individual essays in Playboy, Cosmopolitan, or The Village Voice), Heimel raves against the world, but not of it ever is funny enough to make you laugh out loud or close enough for that frission of understanding to occur. Oh, you might be able to identify with her if you are a single mother of a teenage son who supports herself by writing in Manhattan, but I wouldn't take bets on it.<br />The essays are grouped into sections labled \\"The Times,\\" \\"Women,\\" \\"Men,\\" \\"Women and Men,\\" and \\"The Writer's Life.\\" The best stuff is in \\"The Times\\" such as \\"Notes on Black\\" about how all the trendy people who were the originators of the black look are conspiring to forgo it for another color until all the sheep quit wearing it, then they'll go back. The worst stuff is in \\"The Writer's Life,\\" which should instead have been entitled \\"Cynthia Heimel's Life\\" because I saw nothing there that resembled any other writer I know.<br />I guess I looked in the wrong place. I had noticed that I had a lot of comic stuff by men on my shelf, but nothing by a woman, so I browsed the shelves and came up with this. I'm not necessarily a fan of the comic essay (Dave Barry probably being the prime example of it today, and whom I can read but I never feel like purchasing a whole volume of his stuff). In essays, I tend to like humorous political commentary (say Molly Ivins or P.J. O'Rourke) better than Andy Rooney style essays on the little things of life. Instead I should have picked up comic fiction by a woman, I guess--except I'm not aware of any. Zora Neale Huston? Anyway, with due apologies to Heimel, I can live without her.	2003-03-22
1184541:US	53084041	R2KNM49OBQBXGV	0345367413	501452642	Setting Free the Bears	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Extremely disjointed	The bears of the title are in the Heitzinger Zoo in Vienna, which is why I read this first novel of Irving's. Giving a choice of his novels to begin with, I probably would have selected The World According to Garp or A Prayer for Owen Meany. But in preparation for our trip to Austria, this novel popped up as having a tenuous tie, and due to the fact that we were not finding much to go on, tenuous was better than nothing.<br />If you take the middle section, called ''The Notebook,&quot; and remove the bits about the zoo, what you are left with is the prehistory it the Siggy character, a biographical compilation of one family from right before World War II up to the time that the Soviets withdrew from Austria. In this section you get a highly detailed and personal account of what was taking place from the point-of-view of the street. I found it strangely similar to Morton's A Nervous Splendour--a feeling of history contained in a microcosm. While fictionalized, Irving gives a clue as to his research on page 222 where in the fictional diarist lists some books of &quot;influence.&quot;<br />The other parts of the story were less successful, at least for me. This could have been because I was looking to learn about Austria and Vienna, and took less enjoyment from the crazed antics of Siggy and Graff. Although many scenes were vivid--the climactic meeting of motorcycle and beehives, the brutality of the milkman to his horse--the overall plot was extremely disjointed. While I am likely to read another Irving novel, due to his reputation, this novel has soured me on the idea for the moment.	2003-03-22
1184623:US	53084041	R2WC79IJ5754Q8	0826406211	447099525	Book Publishing: The Basic Introduction	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Invaluable insight into the industry	To coincide with my career change, I decided it was time to understand a little bit more about the mechanics of my favorite industry. Dessauer is a former Director of the Center of Book Publishing at the University of Scranton, as well as a past contributing editor to Publishers Weekly, and this volume is likely the beginning textbook for anyone who wants to make publishing a career. After a summary history of the evolution of publishing, Dessauer delves right into the meat of the subject (to mangle a metaphor), covering how books are created, how they are manufactured, and how they are sold. Creation, although most wannabes and some authors think begins and ends with their personal word processor, was an intriguing chapter, as it covers the acquisition process for both a major house and an independent publisher, as well as bringing in the artwork, how the book is \\"set,\\" and designed. The marketing of books, presented here in a coldly clinical light, when we all know that the truth is darkened santums filled with black-hooded figures mumbling over bubbling cauldrons, provides some humorous moments where Dessaur discusses how publishing lines have tiers of publications and marketeers with rarely a clue about their product. Although long a whipping post for authors and editors alike, one can feel somewhat sorry for the poor marketing folk, who graduated college where their education how to do with the positioning of a new cereal by Post or a sneaker by Reebox. They try so hard to treat a book as a similar commodity, and are constantly dumbfounded by the illogical market. (That's not to say that all marketers are this clueless, as I know some sales agents who actually do read--I also know how they have to separate their personal tastes from their sales lists as well. As you go from large publisher to smaller publisher, and the roles of editor and sales agent converge, this lessens.)<br />But the most interesting part for me, and I think a section worthy of the attention of any serious reader, is the section on the manufacturing of books. From picking the type of paper, to the details of binding and printing, there is a lot more that goes on in the making of a book that was previously dreamed of in my philosophy. I finally understood the distiction between a hardcover and a trade paperback (both of them are printed from the same plates; the only difference is that one is put between hard boards and the other gets a paper cover), as opposed to the mass market paperback (which requires a separate set of printing plates from the hardcover edition). After reading this section, I look at a book quite differently--admiring the amount of labor and ingenuity that went into the object itself, quite beyond the words it contains.<br />Book Publishing is a little dry at times. Dessauer was once principal author of Book Industry Trends, and sometimes floats by a bunch of tables filled with numbers and doesn't go into much discussion about them. For research purposes, these facts are wonderful, but numbers are rarely equal to words when trying to learn something. All in all, I found this an invaluable book to have read, and plan to keep it for a little while as a reference work.n of any serious reader, is the section on the manufacturing of books. From picking the type of paper, to the details of binding and printing, there is a lot more that goes on in the making of a book that was previously dreamed of in my philosophy. I finally understood the distiction between a hardcover and a trade paperback (both of them are printed from the same plates; the only difference is that one is put between hard boards and the other gets a paper cover), as opposed to the mass market paperback (which requires a separate set of printing plates from the hardcover edition). After reading this section, I look at a book quite differently--admiring the amount of labor and ingenuity that went into the object itself, quite beyond the words it contains.<br />Book Publishing is a little dry at times. Dessauer was once principal author of Book Industry Trends, and sometimes floats by a bunch of tables filled with numbers and doesn't go into much discussion about them. For research purposes, these facts are wonderful, but numbers are rarely equal to words when trying to learn something. All in all, I found this an invaluable book to have read, and plan to keep it for a little while as a reference work.	2003-03-22
1184975:US	53084041	R1KMI0AO8LGIG0	0445200553	544701256	At Lady Molly's (Dance to the Music of Time)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A misstep in the Dance	At the end of the first season of Powell's \\"monumental\\" novel, A Dance to the Music of Time, I stated that each book was getting better. Unfortunately, I did not enjoy At Lady Molly's very much, and I'm going to try to pin it down. I believe the main reason is that Jenkins reverts back to his observer role, whereas he had finally become much more of an active character in the last book. Herein, everything revolves around Widmerpool's strange engagement to a woman much older than him (and much more eccentric, if more of a \\"class\\" with their compatriots than Widmerpool). I am starting to fear that Widmerpool may be the single most important character in the novel, boding ill for my enjoyment.<br />The problem is that Powell's humor centering around Widmerpool is akin to the humor of Seinfeld. Like the characters of that show, Widmerpool is often sailing amongst the people around him, steadfast in his selfishness, and then has a bowl of sugar unexpectedly dumped on his head. While you do not feel sorry for him--he is, after all, quite a butt in his egotistical way--the manner by which he gets his comeuppance does not put the other characters in all that favorable a light either.<br />Truth to be told, I was much more interested in Jenkins, newly ensconced in the world of British cinema screenplay writing, and engaged by the end of the book. Unlike his romance with Jean Duport, his wooing of Isobel Tolland occurs entirely offstage, and one wonders at whether it was a thing born of love or of that endlessly ticking biological clock. Stringham and Templar, so important at the beginning of Powell's narrative, are little more than quick asides here.<br />Now that I'm a third of the way through the Dance, I'm committed to finishing its steps. I only hope that this current turn was simply a miscue on the part of my partner, Mr. Powell, and not a headlong fall into the bandstand.	2003-03-22
1218369:US	53084041	R3CGQJ3VP1J7VF	014015910X	404354666	The Salterton Trilogy: Tempest-Tost Leaven of Malice a Mixture of Frailties	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The wonder and fun starts here	This is Davies first trilogy, and, if I remember correct, his first novel was the lead-off to this, Tempest-Tost. Before writing novels, however, Davies had written several plays, so his first novel is quite accomplished. The Salterton trilogy is almost misnamed--yes, it does center around the town of Salterton, but the real center of the three books is Solomon Bridgetower. Although he is almost a minor character in the first book, he and his family are front stage in books two and three.<br />Tempest-Tost is about an amateur production of Shakespeare's The Tempest. The Salterton players assume they can have the use of the garden of their most famous citizen, and it is this assumption of community use that leads them into trouble. While no characters in the book undergo a sea-change, several characters do awaken from passive slumber to new lives, sometimes with mixed results. For anyone who has ever been involved in amateur theater, this is an extremely amusing tale. Others might find it belabored.<br />Not so with the second novel, which is about class and prejudice, but told in a Wodehousian manner. Winner of the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour (a Canadian award for best humor novel--I wish I could find a list of past award winners), Leaven of Malice concerns an engagement announcement in the local paper that was placed by neither bride nor groom. The resulting conflict between the two families brings up old academic rivalry, the worst of the new goody-two-shoe couple in town, and an escalation of lawyers. In some ways it is a mystery, too, as the two &quot;lovers&quot; attempt to find who had the malice to link their names in the public eye.<br />The concluding volume, A Mixture of Frailties, is about a trust established by Solomon's mother, and how it must be awarded to a specific individual. But finding the individual is only the start of Solomon's trouble, and the story follows two separate lines: one regarding Solomon and his need for a heir to rid himself of his mother's legacy, and one regarding the lucky trust recipient, and her entry into the world of opera.<br />There were certain things near to Davies' experience, it seems: theater, academic life, and trusts. Trusts can be found in both A Mixture of Frailties and the second and third books of the Cornish trilogy, academic life is featured in Leaven of Malice and The Rebel Angels, and theater productions in Tempest-Tost and The Lyre of Orpheus. I can easily see myself rereading Davies in ten years, and rediscovering all of this once again.himself of his mother's legacy, and one regarding the lucky trust recipient, and her entry into the world of opera.<br />There were certain things near to Davies' experience, it seems: theater, academic life, and trusts. Trusts can be found in both A Mixture of Frailties and the second and third books of the Cornish trilogy, academic life is featured in Leaven of Malice and The Rebel Angels, and theater productions in Tempest-Tost and The Lyre of Orpheus. I can easily see myself rereading Davies in ten years, and rediscovering all of this once again.	2003-02-22
1218378:US	53084041	RNOMT332UNVYF	0380806576	827347608	Veronica	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Poetical magical realism	Nicholas Christopher's Veronica will always be linked in my mind to the movie Rough Magic starring Bridgit Fonda and Russell Crowe. There are many obvious similarities, such as magician's assistants and the magic realist feel. But they will mainly be linked in my mind because I experienced them at the same time: I was in the middle of reading Veronica when I decided to take a break and see Rough Magic. This served to enhance the link that was already quite strong. (For what it is worth, I would be interested in reading Rough Magic's source material, James Hadley Chase's short story, &quot;Miss Shumley Waves a Wand&quot;--at least that's what I recall the title being.)<br />Leo, our hero, stumbles across the eponymous title character in New York City on a winter night. He quickly finds himself involved in an illusion of magicians, with blind Japanese courtesans, identical twins, and secret societies. He, of course, falls in love, but things are not so cut and dried as to be predictable.<br />Christopher is an accomplished poet, and Veronica is his second novel, the first from a major press. On a sentence by sentence level, I can hardly fault him, but he does not have as sure a hand when it comes to plotting. After a great start, the book bogs in the middle as the coincidences and conspiracies add up, and then it's an all-out sprint to the grand climax. I liked it, but that's because it punched several of my pleasure buttons. I would hesitate to recommend it to strangers without asking them about their literary preferences.	2003-02-22
1218444:US	53084041	R3DAXLJBUB2KXU	0553574418	980219925	Remake	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Romantic Comedy	It takes Willis a long time to write a novel, due to the incredible amount of research that she does for them. Of course, this is also one of the reasons why they are so good. In the early 1990s, her editor had a brilliant idea--why not write shorter novels? Connie, in a rare fit of insanity, agreed. The idea was crazy because she does the same amount of research for a novella as for a novel. If there was a silver lining in this cloud, it is likely the increased amount of shelf space that Willis now takes up with seven different titles instead of four (I'm not counting her new book, nor the collaborations with Cynthia Felice).<br />There may be another silver lining in that we got three novellas that might otherwise not have existed, and it is a format that Connie excels at, and a format that, rarely, is as financially rewarding. This is the second of the three that I have read (I also commented on Bellwether). It is not a screwball, per se, which is somewhat surprising given that it is about movies. It does, however, contain that signature Willis humor.<br />Tom is a poor student at the UNC film school, who has to moonlight as a film &quot;editor&quot; to pay his tuition. I have to put editor in quotes, because this is the future, where movies are not made but remade with digitized famous actors. Into this walks Alis, a &quot;face&quot; who confides to Tom that she wants to dance in the movies.<br />Like many of Connie's stories, this one plays with the concept of time-travel, although the one-way trip into film nostalgia here is an unusual twist. If this was made into a film, the likely category it would fall into is romantic comedy, although comedy and tear-jerker aspects are there. Think of it as Willis' Jerry Maguire.	2003-02-22
1218458:US	53084041	R2FF751KKC0EE9	0679727299	102642549	The Annotated Lolita: Revised and Updated	Books	5	15	19	N	N	The best way to understand this misunderstood classic	Several correspondents responded to my comments on Nabokov's Pale Fire by suggesting that I read his most famous novel, Lolita. I am somewhat wary of classics, having the same poor introduction to them as the majority of American public school students, and Lolita has an additional stigma of being a controversial book (some of which, like Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer, are better forgotten than revered on banned books shelves). The recommendations came from reputable sources, however, and I had determined from Pale Fire that Nabokov was to my liking, so I purchased a copy.<br />It sat on my shelf for a few weeks, then I ran across this version of the novel, containing notes by Nabokov scholar, Alfred Appel, Jr. For those just tuning in to First Impressions, I am a sucker for annotations. (A quick aside: I like the trend that Dorling Kindersley started with regard to mixing text, notes, and graphics, but I was alarmed to see their initial entry into children's literature was annotating abridged novels. As much as I love annotations, I hate abridgements.) I knew that I was missing a lot of the allusions in Pale Fire, and the opportunity to read Lolita and not be quite as clueless was too good to pass up.<br />There are three basic types of annotations: 1) explanations of uncommon terms and phrases, 2) information about the referenced person or thing, and 3) notes on the story itself. The first two I like as footnotes, the last as endnotes. Unfortunately, Appel has all the types mixed together in the back which makes it very difficult for a first time reader to enjoy the allusionary explanations yet skip the references to what occurs later in the book. It would have been better to have split the annotations into footnotes to be read with the text and endnotes for scholarly study.<br />Even though I was often clued in to later events in the book, I thoroughly enjoyed Lolita. The first half of the book, where Humbert Humbert falls into the seductive trap that he built himself is undeniably erotic, but not pornographic. However, because the erotic object is a 12-year-old, the book does tread fine ground. If Lolita had ended at the Enchanted Hunters Motel, it would not be worth mention here. But it continues for another 200 pages, and the repercussions of both Humbert's and Lo's actions are visited upon them.<br />Having exposed myself to several anonymous novels in my sordid past, I was able to compare Nabokov's work to those lesser authors. Although everyone's definition of pornography differs, there does seem to me an obvious difference that goes beyond the question of style or intent. A sex novel relies on a building of intensity, leading the reader from tame necking to pneumatic exercises over the course of a few pages, then rebuilding and doing it again, and again. Nabokov starts intensely and keeps the pressure high until the actual culmination over nearly 200 pages. It takes a strong libido to maintain an interest that long, even for a fast reader like myself.<br />I'm glad I finally read Lolita, and I expect that you will see more comments on Nabokov in this space.himself is undeniably erotic, but not pornographic. However, because the erotic object is a 12-year-old, the book does tread fine ground. If Lolita had ended at the Enchanted Hunters Motel, it would not be worth mention here. But it continues for another 200 pages, and the repercussions of both Humbert's and Lo's actions are visited upon them.<br />Having exposed myself to several anonymous novels in my sordid past, I was able to compare Nabokov's work to those lesser authors. Although everyone's definition of pornography differs, there does seem to me an obvious difference that goes beyond the question of style or intent. A sex novel relies on a building of intensity, leading the reader from tame necking to pneumatic exercises over the course of a few pages, then rebuilding and doing it again, and again. Nabokov starts intensely and keeps the pressure high until the actual culmination over nearly 200 pages. It takes a strong libido to maintain an interest that long, even for a fast reader like myself.<br />I'm glad I finally read Lolita, and I expect that you will see more comments on Nabokov in this space.	2003-02-22
1218616:US	53084041	R2C08N0QLP2HZJ	1562612948	74987799	DEL-Understanding Europeans 2 Ed	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting	&quot;Tell them you're a writer.&quot; That is a chapter title in this book, and it illustrates one of the differences between Europeans and Americans. For me, this chapter struck home. I have been working towards a career in writing recently, first by applying to graduate school where I hope to complete a Masters of Fine Arts degree. But when people ask me what I plan to do with that degree, I can not tell them the truth: that I want to write. Instead, I have to say that I plan to teach or take an editing position along with writing (which is true--I am not so naive as to believe in a magical diploma that opens up the world of publishing--but it is akin to someone who is studying to be a surgeon to say that they plan to work as an intern). In some ways, I feel like St. Peter denying Jesus; I cannot admit to my true purpose because of what people might think. And that is because writing is not viewed as a proper occupation by the majority of Americans, whereas in Europe, that answer would be sufficient.<br />This is indicative of my feeling for this book of Miller's, which is supposedly about those folk across the water, but ends up helping describe my neighbor and myself much more. Although we are mostly aware of the Puritan and commercial streaks in our national character, to have it compared and contrasted to the Europeans makes it much easier to understand. There are some basic differences between our world views that Miller is able to pinpoint with some accuracy.<br />Understanding Europeans benefits from Miller's use of his own marriage to a French woman as examples, but there are not enough of them to overcome some of the drudgery of his psychoanalytical approach to his subject. While slow at times, perseverance was rewarded by a comprehensive overview of the European state of mind.<br />Although global communication is helping to homogenize the world (not a totally positive thing in my opinion), culture differences are still strong and go much deeper than the simple talk and entertainment that we might share. Nationalism, something Americans only understand to a small extent, once again is making itself known in Europe, and we would be wise to be aware of its past impact in history. Miller helps explain the psychology of Europeans, from the lingering effects of feudalism to the most recent trauma of a war that affected the entire family rather than just able-bodied men.the simple talk and entertainment that we might share. Nationalism, something Americans only understand to a small extent, once again is making itself known in Europe, and we would be wise to be aware of its past impact in history. Miller helps explain the psychology of Europeans, from the lingering effects of feudalism to the most recent trauma of a war that affected the entire family rather than just able-bodied men.	2003-02-22
1218638:US	53084041	R2DJQSBF1V5N0B	0679725768	420329808	The Mezzanine	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Fascinating details, but what's the point?	Imagine Andy Rooney writing a novel, and you might come close to what this book by Nicholson Baker resembles. Because nothing really happens here. The protagonist goes to lunch to buy some shoelaces and returns, riding up to his office on the mezzanine level on the escalator. All of that (uhm, what there was of it) is just an excuse for a wide range of introspective discussion about modern life.<br />The strange thing is that this &quot;novel&quot; is readable, and when it touches on some common aspects of human experience, it is downright disarming. Take, for example, the description of the corporate washroom. Within a few pages Baker merges the history of paper towels and the human psychology of the urinal (most specifically, the difficult task of starting with a co-worker nearby). And, truly, I don't think I will ever be able to ride an escalator again without thinking of this book. In this case, and in several others, Baker turns the minutia of daily life into objects of great meaning.<br />But the sum of all that piggling over detail does not quite congeal. I got the feeling that Baker wanted to make a statement in the end-- possibly about how lives are made up of those silly little details and not the heroic exploits found in novels. Nice sentiment. Needs work.	2003-02-22
1218693:US	53084041	R3U7OJR13CAK6O	0445200324	250329665	The Acceptance World (A Dance to the Music of Time)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Anxious to continue the series	This is number three of twelve in the 12-part &quot;A Dance to the Music of Time&quot; series. I found the first two volumes a little dull and slow, but I am continuing to read this series mainly due to Richard Horton's exhortations. With this book, I finally got a sense of why Richard keeps urging me along; something finally clicked. As characters reappeared, I welcomed them back as old friends, and didn't need to flip back to find where they had entered the story before. Jenkins, the narrator, started doing something, rather than just commenting on the actions of Stringham, Templar, and Widmerpool. Marriages were consummated and broken. Literary and political differences moved into the foreground of the novel. For once, I even thought I saw a plot.<br />I guess what really happened is that I warmed to both Powell's prose and subjects. In the first two books, I thought there were occasions upon which Powell waxed poetical--loving bits of description that put both character-building and story into suspension until the subject at hand was drained of detail. I am the first to admit that I am not one fond of overt description, but one can sit still for only so long before something falls asleep.<br />Jenkins and his contemporaries are in their late 20s in this book, which takes place in the golden years between the two World Wars. Trouble is brewing in the world, seen here in some characters who are pronounced revolutionaries, followers of Marx and Trotsky.<br />A quote from page 63 sums up the idea of this series in my mind:<br />Afterwards, that dinner in the Grill seemed to partake of the nature of a ritual feast, a rite from which the four of us emerged to take up new positions in the formal dance with which human life is concerned. At the time, its charm seemed to reside in a difference from the usual run of things.... But, in a sense, nothing in life is planned--or everything is--because in the dance every step is ultimately the corollary of the step before; the consequence of being the kind of person one chances to be.<br />And, while I am in a quoting mood, here is a line that seemed apt: &quot;There is, after all, no pleasure like that given by a woman who really wants to see you.&quot; Lines like that have me anxious to continue the series.consequence of being the kind of person one chances to be.<br />And, while I am in a quoting mood, here is a line that seemed apt: &quot;There is, after all, no pleasure like that given by a woman who really wants to see you.&quot; Lines like that have me anxious to continue the series.	2003-02-22
1218768:US	53084041	R2LFUQNXZS7VXM	0441001211	503816673	Resurrection Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very strange story and world	It was Don Webb who first pointed me in Stewart's direction, but it took me quite a while before I finally picked up a novel of his. This of course was due to no active avoidance, but simply because I have way too many books to read as it is. Still, if I never got any recommendations, I would miss out on some amazing books, of which Resurrection Man is one of them.<br />I like fantasy based in the real world--something magical hidden under the surface. When young, I remember being fascinated by magicians, tarot cards, and voodoo. I liked science fiction, but ESP and telekinetics did not intrigue me as much as the rituals of fantasy. This was the difference between science and magic, even when both could accomplish the same effect. Later in life, this preoccupation with magic had me gravitating to magic realism in my reading, a subject which I still actively seek out.<br />Resurrection Man is not quite magic realism (at least in my definition of the term) because Stewart's world is not our own. It has many similarities, but the differences--angels working for the police, feng shui necessary for building placement--are striking. What makes Stewart seem like magic realism is for his style of writing about this alternate world, almost laconic, but seemingly realistic.<br />The plot is a strange mixture of mystery and secrets that also appealed to me, as the protagonist must deal with his own angelic nature (not as heavenly as you might think), the past of his aunt's husband, and a possible child, both born yet unborn. I liked Resurrection Man a lot, and I'm looking forward to reading another book by Stewart to see if he can capture my interests so completely once again.	2003-02-22
1218773:US	53084041	R20UTCRHITARNV	0919359167	551721519	Minds (Cerebus, Volume 10)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not for the uninitiated	Later Cerebus volumes such as this are not for the uninitiated. Collecting as they do issues from the late 100s (of a total proposed 300 issue series), they require a knowledge of a large majority of the previously published issues of volumes. Cerebus itself is not necessarily enjoyable by those without some familiarity with its peer comics, fantasy novels by Robert E. Howard and Michael Moorcock, the Marx brothers' films, and the writings and lives of Oscar Wilde, Mick Jagger, and Keith Richards, to enumerate only some of its influences.<br />Minds is much more traditional in its presentation compared to the previous volume, Reads, although it continues Sim's idiosyncratic view of the relation between creator and creation. I liked it a lot--especially the points where Cerebus tries to come to grips with the fact that he is talking to &quot;God.&quot; Call it meta-fiction, call it jacking off--its unreal and poignant at the same time. Even if you think it doesn't work, you at least have to admire Sim for his audacity.<br />New to Cerebus? Don't start here. Find the first eponymous phone book and try that. It gets both better and worse after that, but this is truly one of those cases where you have to take the good with the bad.	2003-02-22
1218783:US	53084041	R2GZ6ENNQXEG6V	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of my favorite childhood books	There are some memories from childhood that I can never quite place specifically. Things that linger in memory, but are so faint that they are like a sniff of fresh apple pie from down the street that you can't determine which house it is coming from. I recall reading some \\"magic\\" children books--at one time, I thought they were Andre Norton, who had several young adult novels with the word magic in the title, but I was never able to find the exact one. Until I ran across this book in the store, and realized a chapter into it that I was eating apple pie.<br />I love this book, but it may be because I remember it so fondly. I've been trying to catch up on children's fantasy the last couple of years--reading E. Nesbit, Norton Juster, P.L. Travers, E.L. Konigsburg--and, of them all, Eager is my favorite. In Half Magic, fantasy is rolled with some of the logic of science fiction, in that the wishes that the magic coin gives the children only occurs in halves, and they must figure out how to use it. As children, they are quite believable--maybe not as realistic as Nesbit, but not the Bobsey Twins either.<br />I should note that Eager was himself a fan of Nesbit's, and his stories do resemble her's in some ways. His affinity for her is clearly laid out here, where the children visit the library and one of their favorite books is The Enchanted Castle.	2003-02-22
1218827:US	53084041	R1GCVG4UMASHDS	057560106X	177680875	The Tough Guide to Fantasyland	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Funny, and possibly useful	Read the latest Robert Jordan, David Eddings or Terry Brooks door-stop and decide that you could write a fantasy soap opera just as well? Or maybe those authors drive you insane and you want to turn the fantasy genre on its head? The solution to both of these tasks can be found in this strange book from Diana Wynne Jones, better known for writing original children's fantasies of her own. Her secret, contained herein, seems to have been a long study of fantasy literature, and noted what has become cliched. In this book, all the tropes are dissected and cross-referenced. A better title would have been &quot;A Writer's Guide to Fantasy Schlock, with annotations.&quot;<br />As a book to read straight through, it is not as rewarding. The entries are listed alphabetically, with small caps indicating a term with its own entry. Little icons appear in the margins--these don't mean anything per se, but are usually little graphic jokes on the text. The text itself is quite amusing, especially if one is familiar with the subject being pilloried.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to all, but fans of fantasy should find enough here for their monies worth of chuckles. Would-be writers will find this an indispensable reference work.	2003-02-22
1218890:US	53084041	R39JSMKZ4AWKRA	0156527871	311307606	The Literary Life and Other Curiosities (A Harvest Book)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A pleasant collection of trivia	Think of this as a primer for the brown questions in Trivial Pursuit, both in the nature of its short, pithy paragraphs and subject matter. I kept this book by my bedside as something I could read and put down at any time without having to worry about dropping the thread of the narrative. Hendrickson has brought together in one book all the myriad anecdotes, witticisms, and lists about books and authors, as well as a new chapter in this revised edition &quot;Of Editors and Agents.&quot; This book won't change your life, but if you love writers and writing, it makes for many evenings' pleasant divertimento.	2003-02-22
1218912:US	53084041	R2BVNYTLIROQ96	0553562940	194318952	Uncharted Territory	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Screwball SF at its best	Another light but excellently told SF tale by Willis. A couple of crusty surveyors and a native are working to map a new planet. Things are not all as they seem, however. The native is constantly fining the off- worlders for the degradation to the planet. The off-world survey might harbor an ulterior interest for the government.<br />Willis' comedy here is, like a lot of her stories, true screwball. That means a battle of the sexes, with misunderstandings and misrepresentations. I'm told that this type of humor is an acquired taste, which may explain some of the comments I've heard from people who say Willis' stories don't do anything for them. Personally, I can't get enough of them, and have to find other authors to fulfill that need during the months it takes Connie to write another.	2003-02-22
1218928:US	53084041	RG5BTNHELS67R	0716731347	800535116	Evolution Isn't What It Used to Be: The Augmented Animal and the Whole Wired World	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A bit slow going, but thought-provoking	The title is misleading for this book in that it is only peripherally concerned with Darwin's theory. The subtitle is only slightly better. The difficulty in naming this book is its interdisciplinary nature. Anderson covers biology, cybernetics, information technology, agriculture, environmentalism, and genetic research. Although all are specialized fields, Anderson shows how they interact with each other cud every one of us. It is an exciting time to be alive, Anderson says.<br />Like many popular books on science, Evolution starts off slowly. Because Anderson cannot be sure of the background that every reader brings to his book, he spends the first half of each section in a survey of one or two of his inter-connected subjects. Interspersed in the survey are some delectable bits of controversy and discovery, but he saves the items That have the most impact for the last sections. Since the book is organized into four different sections, this makes for a thrilling roller coaster ride through some of the most exiting terrain in science today.<br />In the first 50 pages, I was somewhat bored by Anderson's prose (he is no David Quammen) and slightly skeptical of his early opinions. At the halfway point I realized that I was reading much more smoothly and often nodding my head at the text. When I found myself quoting this book at a business meeting the next day, I knew I was learning from this book.<br />Anderson's basic thesis is that humans have taken control of their own evolution, and the mechanisms of this control are the convergence of biology and technology, and seen today in the growing field of biotech. I have long thought that information is the opposite of entropy (in a local sense) and Anderson closely dovetails into this idea with his concept of information being the control mechanism by which we modify our biological environment. In a sense we have done this in the past, through the use of corrective lenses and vaccines. But these are only baby steps compared to the strides we may be capable of shortly.<br />Anderson's personal background is rooted in the environmental movement (which, if you were unaware of it, you find out in the last section), and his moderate stance on certain issues is quite refreshing compared to the demagoguery we are subjected to daily. While you may disagree with his predictions, it is important to think about and discuss them.ed to the strides we may be capable of shortly.<br />Anderson's personal background is rooted in the environmental movement (which, if you were unaware of it, you find out in the last section), and his moderate stance on certain issues is quite refreshing compared to the demagoguery we are subjected to daily. While you may disagree with his predictions, it is important to think about and discuss them.	2003-02-22
1218948:US	53084041	R3QAPPPZ60VQ1S	0525051546	661750812	The Aleph and Other Stories, 1933-1969: Together with Commentaries and an Autobiographical Essay	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Excellent introduction to Borges	This collection is an excellent introduction to Borges, and clearly shows how he revolutionized the short story and became the pater familias of a new genre classification.<br />\\"The Aleph\\"--Like most of his stories, this one is brief but packs a lot of information into its short length. (For those who don't read outside of SF, imagine a J.G. Ballard condensed novel with more connections and a higher sense of the fantastic. Hmm, that was a worthless description. It is hard to find a match for Borges in the genre, because he was always succinct, and could never have survived in the dog-eat-dog world of pay by word.) The gimmick is simple--the aleph is to space what eternity is to time--but the method by which the author discovers it is unusual. I like Borges because his approach to a fantastic concept is unlike any found in the genre. Genre writing seems to emphasize the gimmick, in mainstream writing it is simply one part of the landscape against which the characters are placed. Only in Borges do all elements seem equal, similar in concept to his own aleph, to return in a style similar to Borges himself.<br />\\"Streetcorner Man\\"--A first-person tale of one night in the barrio, when the ones who talk big get their comeuppance by the quiet ones. OK, but I like my stories to have a little something more.<br />\\"The Approach to aI-Mu'tasim\\"--A review of a fictional book which reads, again, like a condensed novel, only in this case it truly is one. The literary device is ingenious, allowing Borges to comment on literary criticism at the same time he is creating literature.<br />\\"The Circular Ruins\\"--One of Borges' favorite subjects is the concept of infinity, another is creation. Here he bends the two together in a story that is also a metaphor for the process of setting and achieving goals.<br />\\"Death and the Compass\\"--A logic problem to a mystery story, almost like Poe. Poe, though, would have stretched it out to twice its length.<br />\\"The Life of Tadeo Isidoro Cruz (1829-1874)\\"--I did not quite follow this one. At one point I thought that maybe Cruz was going to be killing his own father, but instead he goes to the aid of himself?<br />\\"The Two Kings and Their Two Labyrinths\\"--A fable, or a sermon, that addresses what is a labyrinth. Highly appropriate subject for a Borges collection.<br />\\"The Dead Man\\"--A gaucho story. Think of it as a Louis L'amour story with Argentines and Brazilians instead of Mexicans and Texans. Okay, but it's still a western at heart.<br />\\"The Other Death\\"--This is what I look for in Borges: a fantastical study of memory and history, reality and dream. Pedro did not act like a hero in the battle... or did he?<br />\\"Ibn Hakkan al-Bokhari, Dead in His Labyrinth\\"--Another great story of mazes and mystery. Borges has an unusual way of framing his tales, usually with an objective third person narrator, that shortens the stories tremendously. I guess he did not get paid by the word.<br />\\"The Man On the Threshold\\"--Another mystery, but not quite as fantastic as the others. Some Of these stories are morality or revenge plays, that do not require much speculation.<br />\\"The Challenge\\"--A rehash of some of the gaucho themes, certainly my last favorite of his tropes. What I find interesting is the references to other stories flirt makes this seem like a reference article instead of a story.<br />\\"The Captive\\"--A short short about a boy captured as a young child by natives. Borges here formulates a question about the nature of memory.<br />\\"Borges and Myself\\"--Here, as in \\"Isidore Cruz\\" above, Borges talks about the nature of identity. When you look at how others perceive you and realize that that is not how you perceive yourself is a crisis of identity (as in here), or how people might perceive a younger version of you. I often look at my current life and wonder. There is no way that Glen circa. 1980 could have ever dreamed of becoming the Glen of 1998. Thoughts and hopes and goals are all so mutable. The funny thing is that I will reread these words 10 or more years from now and be struck by the same strangeness.<br />\\"The Maker\\"--A discussion of what it means to go blind, nominally about Homer, but also about Borges' own condition. I had not realized that Borges had gone blind before his death.<br />\\"The Intruder\\"--Borges says that his mother, who he dictated this story to, hated it, and I can see why. It's not something I would recommend to any woman, as it is quite misogynstic. However, it is an incredible story, and a fairly straightforward one for Borges, about friendship and brotherhood.<br />\\"The Immortals\\"--A science fiction tale, strangely incongruous here. Well done, but it seems much more dated than almost everything else in this collection (stories from 1933 to 1969).<br />\\"The Meeting\\"--Clever little tale about people and weapons. Almost a trick story, because the title refers to something other than what you expect.<br />\\"Pedro Salvadores\\"--Short short about dictatorships and living \\"underground\\" (actually, both literally and figuratively). Borges had a real knack for the short short, never an easy thing to write.<br />\\"Rosendo's Tale\\"--To come almost entirely full circle, this tale is a sequel or antidote to the second story, \\"Streetcorner Man.\\" The gaucho here is more realistic, not so macho, and I find myself appreciating this more because of having seen the Hemingway-ish earlier story.<br />Finally, there is an autobiographical essay at the end, for those of us who wonder how Borges evolved (as Borges himself does in \\"Borges and Myself\\").. The funny thing is that I will reread these words 10 or more years from now and be struck by the same strangeness. <br />\\"The Maker\\"--A discussion of what it means to go blind, nominally about Homer, but also about Borges' own condition. I had not realized that Borges had gone blind before his death. <br />\\"The Intruder\\"--Borges says that his mother, who he dictated this story to, hated it, and I can see why. It's not something I would recommend to any woman, as it is quite misogynstic. However, it is an incredible story, and a fairly straightforward one for Borges, about friendship and brotherhood. <br />\\"The Immortals\\"--A science fiction tale, strangely incongruous here. Well done, but it seems much more dated than almost everything else in this collection (stories from 1933 to 1969). <br />\\"The Meeting\\"--Clever little tale about people and weapons. Almost a trick story, because the title refers to something other than what you expect. <br />\\"Pedro Salvadores\\"--Short short about dictatorships and living \\"underground\\" (actually, both literally and figuratively). Borges had a real knack for the short short, never an easy thing to write. <br />\\"Rosendo's Tale\\"--To come almost entirely full circle, this tale is a sequel or antidote to the second story, \\"Streetcorner Man.\\" The gaucho here is more realistic, not so macho, and I find myself appreciating this more because of having seen the Hemingway-ish earlier story. <br />Finally, there is an autobiographical essay at the end, for those of us who wonder how Borges evolved (as Borges himself does in \\"Borges and Myself\\").	2003-02-22
1219007:US	53084041	R3OZIQALLL5AIU	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Heavy on the versimilitude	I can't remember where I first heard of Fitzgerald, although I suspect it was from one of the well-read subscribers to Rondua, the Jonathan Carroll mailing list. She is not a magic realist or fantasy author (as far as I can tell from reviews of her work and the present volume), although the book in question could be considered a ghost story it one wanted to interpret it that way. Of the authors of my acquaintance, she most resembles Robertson Davies in style and form. I don't think that I am creating a relationship based on subject material, although I must admit that Davies also wrote a couple of novels of love and the university, as well as a collection of ghost stories.<br />The year is 1912. Fred Fairly is a Young Fellow at Cambridge's St. Angelicus College, which has fairly strict ideas on the proper conduct of its members, including a requirement of non-marriage. While biking, Fairly collides with an unlit cart and is injured. Upon regaining consciousness, he finds himself in a bed with a fellow victim, who, by circumstance and a gold ring on her fourth finger, is mistaken as his wife. Fred finds the prospect not displeasing.<br />In other hands--say P. G. Wodehouse or Thorne Smith--such a plot would be filled with spirited high jinx, including mistaken identities and timing difficulties. Fitzgerald's humor is not of that sort. Like Davies, it derives less from exaggeration and more from verisimilitude. This is not to say that there are not amusing passages. I especially enjoyed Fred's family: his suffragette mother and two younger sisters and his put-upon father, the Rector.<br />This is Fitzgerald's eighth novel, and her ability in story and sentence construction is masterful. Although I found this book to be a little dry for my particular taste, I expect I will try a different vintage of hers at some later date.	2003-02-22
1219021:US	53084041	RGL0RABCFXCRZ	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Almost as much fun as traveling yourself	Before embarking on a longish trip, Jill and I like to read about the places we are going to visit. Not just guidebooks--although I must admit we buy those by the pound--but travelogues, histories, and novels set in those areas. Sometimes this is easy. Italy and the Galapagos are well represented in literature. Other places are not so visited by those whose inclinations are to put pen to paper or hands to keyboard, including Ecuador and Costa Rica. At the present, I am unsure of where Austria and Switzerland will fall, but the thought has crossed my mind that a well-placed proposal might nab me a book contract.<br />As histories go, Austria is completely overshadowed by its larger German-speaking neighbor. This is unfortunate. While it is understandable that historians be interested in Germany, Austria has plenty to answer for in the last century as well. The same goes for the Swiss, who sorely need some bright lights shone in their shady vaults and executive suites, as the recent findings about Jewish bank accounts proves.<br />The problem in travelogues lies in the fact that no travel writer seems to go to either of these countries by themselves. Nestled in the heart of Europe, they are waystops between places--like from Germany to Italy or France to Russia--and while travelers may make it a point to stop in, say Salzburg or Zurich, for the night, the urge to stay never comes over them. According to Bill Bryson, the lack of this urge may not be wholly the blame of the visitor.<br />Austria and Switzerland each get a chapter (out of the total 22) in Bryson's Neither Here Nor There. Similar to his first travelogue, The Lost Continent, this one has Bryson still trying to recapture earlier days, but in Europe. Although American by birth, Bryson is thoroughly British in his writing and wit. His journeys resemble those of Redmond 0'Hanlon, except more cosmopolitan acid without a companion. It is not that things go wrong necessarily, but that when they do so he describes it so hilariously.<br />Something that Bryson does not describe is how he can afford his trip-- both in time and money. He mentions wife and children seldomly, although he has both. He does not mention regular employment, but I get the feeling that he is not independently wealthy either. It is neither here nor there, but I am intensely curious (if only to see if it is possible to emulate).<br />I am not sure that I learned that much about my upcoming vacation here, but Europe through Bryson's eyes is almost as much fun as going yourself.it so hilariously.<br />Something that Bryson does not describe is how he can afford his trip-- both in time and money. He mentions wife and children seldomly, although he has both. He does not mention regular employment, but I get the feeling that he is not independently wealthy either. It is neither here nor there, but I am intensely curious (if only to see if it is possible to emulate).<br />I am not sure that I learned that much about my upcoming vacation here, but Europe through Bryson's eyes is almost as much fun as going yourself.	2003-02-22
1219036:US	53084041	R2S88MQF1QP4KU	0919359159	89783614	Reads (Cerebus)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	This one didn't quite work for me	These later collected volumes are not for the uninitiated. Collecting as they do issues from the late 100s (of a proposed 300 issue run), they require a knowledge of a large majority of the previously published issues of volumes. Cerebus itself is not necessarily enjoyable by those without some familiarity with its peer comics, fantasy novels by Robert E. Howard and Michael Moorcock, the Marx brothers' films, and the writings and lives of Oscar Wilde, Mick Jagger, and Keith Richards, to enumerate only some of its influences.<br />Reads is one of the more unusual of the published volumes. Containing almost as many pages of pure text as traditional picture/text combination, it challenges the assumption of what a comic is. The story itself is highly irregular as well. Although it continues the ascension (where the previous volume left off), the text portion is a thinly veiled satire about a \\"reads\\" author and his publishers. I say thinly because even I could recognize the references to Kitchen Sink, Dark Horse and Vertigo, their publishers and editors, and I was not following comicdom in most of the 1990s. The satire works itself into a chaotic manifesto on the nature of art, the distinction (as Sim sees it) between male and female, and the moral rights of creation. Heavy stuff for a \\"funny book,\\" especially one initially a Conan parody with an aardvark as the barbarian. I don't think Reads is quite as effective as Sim thinks it is, but it scores major points for chutzpah.<br />New to Cerebus? Don't start here. Find the first eponymous phone book and try that. It gets both better and worse after that, but this is truly one of those cases where you have to take the good with the bad.	2003-02-22
1219099:US	53084041	R3864V431UHRLS	0312890362	63160212	The Wild Shore: Three Californias (Wild Shore Triptych)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Post-apocalypse, post-modern SF	Why is it that every post-apocalyptic book must have the same old tired plot: a youth, hearing about the grand old past, investigates and discovers the &quot;truth&quot; of the past? Of course, the fact is that these books, like most &quot;non-adventure&quot; SF, are about the present using this simplified vision of the future as a looking-glass to it. My problem with the sub-genre is that I don't hold with the simplification--most of these books Imply that our present life is &quot;out of balance&quot; and that, in a antediluvian world, the balance will be restored. I can hold with the former, but I disagree with the latter.<br />So too may Stan Robinson, if I understand the theme behind his Orange County trilogy, of which this is the first book. Taking a common starting point, Robinson looks at the world through three different fun-house mirrors, the first of which is a back-to-nature, return to the &quot;simpler&quot; life. This is pure conjecture on my part, not having read the other two volumes as of yet, however.<br />The Wild Shore was an Ace SF original, published in the same line edited by the late Terry Carr as Gibson's Neuromancer. While it did not set the genre on its ear as Gibson's novel, the seeds of Robinson's later career and his interests can be seen here. While post-apocalyptic, this novel is not a rehash of A Canticle of Leibowitz--rather than concentrating on the tragedy of the apocalypse and how it might happen again and again, Robinson celebrates the enduring human spirit by attempting to show that life goes on much the same as it ever did. Parents will continue to be parents, both supporting and domineering, and children will continue to be children, full of rash actions and the naive belief that they can live forever. Like his short story, &quot;Down and Out in the Year 2000,&quot; The Wild Shore can be read as an answer to the cyberpunk belief that technology will reinvent the world. Robinson says, the world may change, but people will not.<br />As a final aside to this incoherent rambling, I was surprised early on in the novel to find another coincidental relationship between this book and Neuromancer. Much has been made of Neuromancer's first line, which, to paraphrase, goes &quot;The sky was the color of a television, tuned to a dead channel.&quot; On page 34 of The Wild Shore, Robinson depicts the same color by saying, &quot;On the coast the sky was the color of sour milk....&quot; The two similes are one of the best indications of the different milieu depicted, and the underlying themes of both books.t. <br />As a final aside to this incoherent rambling, I was surprised early on in the novel to find another coincidental relationship between this book and Neuromancer. Much has been made of Neuromancer's first line, which, to paraphrase, goes &quot;The sky was the color of a television, tuned to a dead channel.&quot; On page 34 of The Wild Shore, Robinson depicts the same color by saying, &quot;On the coast the sky was the color of sour milk....&quot; The two similes are one of the best indications of the different milieu depicted, and the underlying themes of both books.	2003-02-22
1219124:US	53084041	R1LTN5OWE862CU	0312267436	823422125	Glimpses	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Magical!	Jill likes this folk song that is quite appropriate for our generation. The song, written and sung by a Gen Xer, tells about how all the Baby Boomers tell her that \\"it must be sad to have been born a little late.\\" Being born late, the Gen Xer missed out on so much: the Summer of Love, Peace Marches, etc. The Gen Xer thinks this is a load of crap and wishes the Baby Boomers would just get over it (and grow up, for chrissakes). I've expressed a similar sentiment before in these pages, but directed at the generation before the Boomers and their fixation on the crash of the American Pie and the loss of Valens et al. So when I say that I found this Boomer book--about how the music and culture of their collective childhood was so great--fabulous, you know that it faced a tough audience.<br />Glimpses does not hide the fact that it is about the 60s and rock music (given the demographics of the population, probably wise--there are a lot more reminiscing Boomers than fed-up Xers), and I likely took my time turning to it because it wore its influences on its jacket. I bought the book when it came out because I knew Lew Shiner from Austin and had all his other books. Lew's previous novels are kind of a mixed bag. His first, Frontera, was published by Baen, not your usual source for quality literature, and while enjoyable enough at the time, I'm not sure that Frontera has weathered quite as well as its cyberpunk contemporaries. In his second novel, Deserted Cities of the Heart, Lew's style and subject matter improved tremendously. In my internal cataloging schema, I tend to group Deserted Cities of the Heart with Pat Murphy's The City, Not Long After and Karen Joy Fowler's Artificial Things. See the paradigm shift: from Cyberpunk to feminism in one novel. Deserted Cities of the Heart was still genre, however, and Lew totally dispensed with that in his third novel, Slam. It's not quite correct, but the voice in my head associates Slam with the line in Michelle Shocked's \\"Anchorage\\" that goes \\"what's it like being a skate-boarding punk rocker.\\" The writer's progress in the three novels is readily apparent, and I liked each succeeding book much more than its predecessors. But there was still that jacket painting of Jim Morrison, Brian Wilson and Jimi Hendrix prompting the irrational knee-jerk response.<br />Several things finally broke through my resistance, including Glimpses winning the World Fantasy Award, unsolicited comments and recommendations for the book from several First Impressions and Rondua members, and then it appeared in the middle of all the Anthony Powell that Alexandria Digital Literature recommends that I read. A long plane trip to New Jersey was the final straw.<br />I started reading it hesitantly, then slowly relaxed and started enjoying it rather than dreading it. By the time I got to page 50 I had to close the book and let the wave of \\"good vibrations\\" flow over me before continuing. It did not matter that I had waited three years before reading this--everything was alright in the world because I was only a sixth of the way into a book that I knew was my type of novel and I did not have to worry about stopping reading for at least 2,000 miles.<br />Glimpses is about the late 60s, but it is much more about the late 80s and one man's relation to both decades, his father and his wife. Ray Shackleford repairs stereos in Austin, his father has just died, and he is starting to realize that his marriage is falling apart and that he is an alcoholic. Escaping from it all, he sits in his repair shop imagining what things would be like if things had been different. If he could have understood his father. If the Beatles had not broken up. If that aborted session that would have been their last studio album had actually come about. And then there it is, coming from his radio: \\"The Long and Winding Road.\\" But not the over-produced, orchestrated version that we are familiar with, but a more basic version. Something that was not supposed to exist.<br />It is a fantasy novel, no doubt about that, but the ready acceptance of the fantastic by the characters means Glimpses is more kin to Borges or Carroll (i.e., magic realism) than Feist or Eddings. While the fantastic elements are fun and Shiner does a superb job of re-creating the atmospheres of the recording sessions, it is Ray, his friendships and his family relationships that drive you to keep reading. Before you are halfway through this novel, you want happiness for Ray, but know that there will be a lot of pain and suffering before he will achieve peace. And you know that his power to re-create music that never was will be as much a danger to him as a gift.<br />Glimpses has my highest recommendation, and given a sufficient waiting period, will likely be on my list of Top 10 favorite novels.osed to exist.<br />It is a fantasy novel, no doubt about that, but the ready acceptance of the fantastic by the characters means Glimpses is more kin to Borges or Carroll (i.e., magic realism) than Feist or Eddings. While the fantastic elements are fun and Shiner does a superb job of re-creating the atmospheres of the recording sessions, it is Ray, his friendships and his family relationships that drive you to keep reading. Before you are halfway through this novel, you want happiness for Ray, but know that there will be a lot of pain and suffering before he will achieve peace. And you know that his power to re-create music that never was will be as much a danger to him as a gift.<br />Glimpses has my highest recommendation, and given a sufficient waiting period, will likely be on my list of Top 10 favorite novels.	2003-02-22
1219224:US	53084041	R1VLVD8Q0DPOZO	0156002442	162323465	Bible Stories for Adults	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Science fiction satire by one of the best modern proponents	\\"Bible Stories for Adults, No. 17: The Deluge\\"--Not for the squeamish, this retelling of the Flood touches on some of Morrow's recurring themes. Why is it murder when humans kill, but not when God kills? What is the value of life? How should we live our lives? I did not find this as disgusting as when I first read it, but I'm also 10 years older.<br />\\"Daughter Earth\\"--I've written about this story before, and it was a pleasure to reread it. It is one of my favorites--a strange metaphorical tale that has character, humor, and a biosphere. This is the kind of story I want to write when I grow up.<br />\\"Known But to God and Wilbur Hines\\"--Well researched tale of World War I and how war is hell. It is okay, but we have seen the sentiment elsewhere, and, while the details are sharp and fresh, the actual plot and manner are a tad warmed over.<br />\\"Bible Stories for Adults, No. 20: The Tower\\"--I like this one a lot better than \\"The Deluge,\\" possibly because of the great humor inherent in a story narrated by God himself. Morrow has a real gift for merging humor into his satire, and this is a prime example. The story itself, with its criticism of Donald Trump and the hubris of the well-off, and its method of turning the tables on the idea of Babel, is just marvelous.<br />\\"Spelling God with the Wrong Blocks\\"--This is a fabulous story. I finished this and, as with \\"Daughter Earth,\\" thought, \\"This is the kind of thing that I try to write. A story that transposes one set of beliefs into the reference frame of another set of beliefs to put serious question marks into both absolutes.\\" In this one, natural selection is seen as the \\"correct\\" and holy interpretation of evolution, and when the science missionaries try to convince the planet of androids that instead they were actually the result of special creation, things don't turn out so well. God, what a funny, but not so funny, story. Check double plus, highly recommended, in my top 20.<br />\\"The Assemblage of Kristin\\"--Another great story, about an organ donor whose parts don't seem to want to give up life. Wonderful details, interesting characters, and a marvelous story structure. You know, if this book continues with stories like this, Morrow is going to move into real favorite status with me. Is this his only story collection (well, no, there was the Pulphouse Author's Choice one, but this is the only major publisher collection, I think)?<br />\\"Bible Stories for Adults, No. 31: The Covenant\\"--Like \\"Spelling God...\\" this drops us into a apotheosis wherein what we find normal is switched. Instead of having Moses' law for over 2,000 years, this world has had to go without it, instead preserving the shattered bits of clay from Mt. Sinai. The purpose of the computer they build is to put the tablets together again, to reveal the holy word. But is it worth it? Great social commentary. Question: What is the purpose of the numbers to these bible stores for adults? In this collection, there are only four, but the last is numbered 46. Are there 42 more that Morrow has not published?<br />\\"Abe Lincoln in McDonald's\\"--A little like the last story except the strange twist of having a very real Abe Lincoln in the future is almost too bizarre for words. The concept of slavery and society is always good for another story.<br />\\"The Confessions of Ebeneezer Scrooge\\"--Similar in style and substance to the Bible Stories, at least in that it picks grits with a story that ostensibly provides for modern morals. Morrow feels that greed shouldn't get off with just providing a turkey at Christmastime.<br />\\"Bible Stories for Adults, No. 46: The Soap Opera\\"--An examination of God's role in the life of Job. I'm reminded of XTC's \\"Dear God,\\" and the line about how God has a lot of questions to answer about suffering. That's a great thing about the Bible Stories--the God of the Old Testament was so capricious that moving his actions into modern times make him look truly ridiculous. I was thinking that Morrow needsto tackle a New Testament story, but I guess that is what Only Begotten Daughter was about.<br />\\"Diary of a Mad Diety\\"--Great concept for a story--a man with the most extreme multiple personality disorder. And I liked several parts it this, but the latter third just did not seem. to match the inventiveness of the earlier parts.<br />\\"Arms and the Woman\\"--This is an example of the Iliad for Adults. What happens when Helen decides that she is not worth a war, a la Shaw. Nice idea, and the best part is the heroes over the truce table talking about how this is the war to make all war seem rational.row needs to tackle a New Testament story, but I guess that is what Only Begotten Daughter was about. <br />\\"Diary of a Mad Diety\\"--Great concept for a story--a man with the most extreme multiple personality disorder. And I liked several parts it this, but the latter third just did not seem. to match the inventiveness of the earlier parts. <br />\\"Arms and the Woman\\"--This is an example of the Iliad for Adults. What happens when Helen decides that she is not worth a war, a la Shaw. Nice idea, and the best part is the heroes over the truce table talking about how this is the war to make all war seem rational.	2003-02-22
1223244:US	53084041	RRACVZ1MSGYOL	0425060799	835157416	God Stalk	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Better than average fare, but...	Like the Continuing Time series by Daniel Keyes Moran (as commented on a few months ago), the two books detailing the exploits of the journeyman thief Jame (of which God Stalk is the first) are constant favorites of the rec.arts.sf.written crowd. It is easy to see why. Both are great adventure stories, with an unusual setting and interesting characters. Much of what passes for SF can only claim two of those three distinctions.<br />However, I'm not going to join the club for either. While I did not have difficulty stomaching this book (unlike, say, books by Lois McMaster Bujold), neither did I feel a true excitement or enjoyment from it. I was entertained rightly enough, but that was all. And when if comes to pure entertainment, I'd rather have a book that humors me than have one that simply takes me for a ride.	2003-02-18
1223378:US	53084041	RJXY0AZ4WYJZM	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not much as fiction, but great as philosophy	This was a selection from Jill's library, a recent favorite of hers. Truthfully, there's not much story here, but it doesn't matter because what is important here are the ideas. Basically, Ishmael is a discussion about our culture, how we use the Earth and how our culture is different from past culture and modern agrarian cultures. This may seem too &quot;back to nature&quot; for some folk, and as someone who likes technology in as much as I do it may seem strange that I took to this so easily. But the case is made cleverly, and it follows some of my own observations regarding religion and culture.<br />The manner in which the story is told--as a conversation between a most unusual teacher and the narrator pupil--is as old as the Coliseum. The teacher elaborates, trying to get the pupil to ask the right questions. This format was frustrating to me at times, as I felt that there was a lot of needless repetition. This is likely because Quinn wants to make sure that his underlying assumptions (or &quot;points&quot;) are clearly understood before he starts the argument and rational conclusion that is the purpose of the book.<br />I don't agree with everything here. I hold this weird belief that information is the opposite of entropy, and I do not think that we have halted evolution one bit (modified its effect on us, yes, and possibly for the worse). But Quinn's goal is to make you think, to make you examine those underlying assumptions, and if you are discussing it, at least half his purpose is achieved.<br />One of the blurbs here says that the blurb-writer now divides his reading into two groups--books read before reading Ishmael and those read after. I wouldn't go that far. However, I do find that it informs some of my reading since, and that's about the best recommendation you can give any book.	2003-02-18
1223499:US	53084041	R1EB2QHVUQW1Z1	0716727250	177421894	The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex	Books	2	3	26	N	N	A tough slog that's more about quarks than jaguars	I picked this up because I thought it was going to have some information about Ecuador (the Jaguar section) in it. It does--about one whole pages worth. The rest of the pages concern Gell-Mann's ideas on the inter-connectedness of things. Gell-Mann, for those of you who don't buy the Nobel prize-winning scientist collector cards, was the identifier of the Quark, that object that is smaller than what had previously been thought of as the smallest element (electrons are made up of a collection of quarks). This book is interesting but rough slogging at times as Gell-Mann tries to give you an instant understanding of the last ten years of modern physics. This should appeal to fans of Richard Feynman and Douglas Hofstadter, although the style isn't as smooth as either of them.	2003-02-18
1223505:US	53084041	R21LUNFZ1DTOII	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	3	21	35	N	N	A classic, but....	I dislike post-apocalypse stories--possibly unreasonably so--because of past experience. For every Alas Babylon, there were real dogs like The Postman or The Day After. This is the main reason why I had never read Walter M. Miller's classic novel A Canticle for Leibowitz. Since it kept appearing on my Alexandria Digital Literature recommendation list, and several people had expressed amazement that I had never read it, I decided to overcome my bias, and at least give it a try. It started out bad--the main character avoiding a possible mutant in a desolate Utah setting that included a fallout shelter (and the word fallout had new meaning, describing a \\"scary\\" monster of the past). Yawn. But I persisted, and it got better.<br />Split into three equal sections, each covering a different main character and time period. The first section, \\"Fiat Homo,\\" is the least interesting, or maybe, the most irritating, describing the young initiate Francis and the results of his Lenten fast; nuclear devastation has driven science underground, preserved by a strange order of Catholic monks. This live-close-to-nature aftermath scenario is the type so over used to be annoying, yet Miller's version, which I initially disliked, actually has something that all the imitators lacked depth. The priesthood role of preservation, initially a silly concept, is quite fleshed out by Miller until it achieves believability. Compare this with, say, Waterworld, where the groups of people and technology have no rational logic. . .<br />The middle section, \\"Fiat Lux,\\" occurs a few centuries later, when human society is being rebuilt, as well as new scientists trying to re-work the old knowledge. The interplay here is between the monks who wish to preserve the old information until the time is right, and the new scientists, who insist that the time is now. The opening of this section, describing one of the nomad groups of the plains, reads too much like Robert Adams' interminable Horseclans novels, but Miller can be forgiven that, by not only being first, but also for having the good sense to stop after one chapter.<br />It is the last section, \\"Fiat Voluntas Tua,\\" that really sets this novel apart from the crowd, and, in my opinion, confirms its classic status. Set in the far future, when all of society has been rebuilt, including the nuclear technology that caused the first cataclysm, the Abbot of the preserving order finds that humans did not learn from the past, and that preparations must be made for another period of darkness. As in the other sections, Miller is able to make this future scenario entirely believable.<br />If A Canticle for Liebowitz had been confined to just one of these sections, I would have hated it. But the three sections are basically inter-connected novellas that do manage to create the semblance of a single novel at the end. Miller did nothing to change my aversion for post-apocalyptic works, but I did gain appreciation for his take on it.Miller can be forgiven that, by not only being first, but also for having the good sense to stop after one chapter. <br />It is the last section, \\"Fiat Voluntas Tua,\\" that really sets this novel apart from the crowd, and, in my opinion, confirms its classic status. Set in the far future, when all of society has been rebuilt, including the nuclear technology that caused the first cataclysm, the Abbot of the preserving order finds that humans did not learn from the past, and that preparations must be made for another period of darkness. As in the other sections, Miller is able to make this future scenario entirely believable.<br />If A Canticle for Liebowitz had been confined to just one of these sections, I would have hated it. But the three sections are basically inter-connected novellas that do manage to create the semblance of a single novel at the end. Miller did nothing to change my aversion for post-apocalyptic works, but I did gain appreciation for his take on it.	2003-02-18
1223531:US	53084041	ROQO1APX5BN2I	0312862873	531679250	Door Number Three	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Behind Door #3: the next Phil Dick?	There seems to be a resurgence in time-travel novels, although they seem to be taking unusual shapes and forms. Or maybe I'm just hitting a bunch in a row: John Kessel's humorous take on time, Connie Willis' upcoming novel set in the same world as her award winning \\"Time Watch,\\" and now this unusual novel, a combination of conspiracy paranoia, aliens among us, questionable reality, and time shuffling. It's a strange combo, but it works magically.<br />First off, I have to give credit where it is due. Lawrence Person told me to read this, and although we don't always agree on literature, Lawrence knows my taste in SF and can often identify books that I will enjoy (it was he who pointed me in the direction of Zod Wallop, I believe). This time Lawrence was number one with a bullet! Door Number Three pushes several of my buttons, most importantly the study of dreams and the fluctuation of reality.<br />The subject matter reminds me of Philip Dick. What is the nature of humanity? Why do we do the things we do? These are Dickian subjects (at least in the SF genre), and O'Leary tackles them within a framework that Dick might have used. However, the style with which he describes his world and ideas is what Dick would have used it he were still alive. Trying to describe this, I have to resort to the simple description of this as a 90s novel--in 20+ years time, we will be able to definitively identify this as being written shortly before the turn of the century.<br />The basic story concerns John Donnelly, a psychologist whose new client, Laura, claims to have been in contact with aliens and if she can convince one sane person of this, they will let her stay on earth. But the real story is about John himself, his life, his family, and his personal adaptation to life. As such, it is not \\"true\\" science fiction, or, at least, science fiction as it is assigned as a label by most people. If the fantastical elements were less, or if O'Leary had been a little more post-modern with his prose, this would have been the latest hip college novel, rather than a forgotten debut on the SF shelf.<br />It is a strong novel, which should appeal to most readers. Be open to it, however, because many things are not as they first seem. And at a little less than 400 pages, there's a lot of space for twists and turns.is prose, this would have been the latest hip college novel, rather than a forgotten debut on the SF shelf.<br />It is a strong novel, which should appeal to most readers. Be open to it, however, because many things are not as they first seem. And at a little less than 400 pages, there's a lot of space for twists and turns.	2003-02-18
1223537:US	53084041	R3D61KVWLK61QW	0312868332	351277423	The Tooth Fairy	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fantastical depiction of psychological impairments	A group of children coming of age together is nothing new, yet Graham Joyce somehow manages to not only make it feel fresh but different as well. In horror, the inevitable comparison for this type of story is Stephen King's \\"The Body\\" (filmed as Stand By Me), which is atypical King, but a great benchmark. \\"The Body'' doesn't have any supernatural elements, although it does rely for the most part on horror tropes to build its suspense and atmosphere. However, King's story is simple and direct, and the uncertainty is in its characters motivation to action. Joyce writes in that understated Brit style, in which the gore is hidden underneath a veneer of geniality. When something horrific happens in King's writing, there's no doubting the pain and blood. With Joyce, the event seems so unreal that you wonder if it just might be in the character's imagination.<br />The underlying question in The Tooth Fairy isn't, however, whether or not the Fairy is real (although it is a minor subplot), but if the Fairy is a good or evil influence. Late in the book, you realize that the Fairy, real or not, stands as a metaphor for certain aspects of being a child. On the surface, there is a simple story about a young boy plagued by a childhood demon, but underneath runs a Jungian psychodrama saying, in effect, that we all have these demons, and dealing with them is a process of maturing.<br />I was originally drawn to Graham Joyce by the recommendation of Jonathan Carroll in his recent interview with Bill Babouris, so I find it hard not to compare Joyce and Carroll as well. Like Carroll, Joyce tends to rely on a narrator that may not be entirely reliable. Carroll's writing is always detailed, rarely moving quickly in time, concentrated on the here and now. Joyce shifts in and out of detail, using vagueness to add a sense of unease or urgency in action (i.e., his narrator describes things in less detail when under stress).<br />I liked Joyce's Requiem, and thought that he might be an author to watch, but was not sure that his other books would show the same promise. After reading The Tooth Fairy, I have a better idea of his subject matter and style: fantastical depiction of psychological impairments. Other authors have attempted the same substance with varying degrees of success, but Joyce seems to have found a magic formula for his own work is fresh, exciting and illuminating.r to watch, but was not sure that his other books would show the same promise. After reading The Tooth Fairy, I have a better idea of his subject matter and style: fantastical depiction of psychological impairments. Other authors have attempted the same substance with varying degrees of success, but Joyce seems to have found a magic formula for his own work is fresh, exciting and illuminating.	2003-02-18
1223607:US	53084041	R3PK8PPV5J5SJN	0743200187	445653873	Complicity	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A strong novel for strong stomachs	Cameron Colley is an Edinburgh-based journalist with a habit for speed (both drug and motion), an obsession for computer games, and a highly developed sense of moral outrage. As a journalist, he worships the patron of all gonzos, St. Hunter S. Thompson, and his righteous indignation is expressed in print as exposes on cheap liquor, defense boondoggles, and inept judges. Of course Cameron is not without sin--no self respecting protagonist could be--and his is an adulterous affair and an abuse of substances. But he is a likable enough rogue that it would be hard to suspect him of a string of grisly revenge murders against a host of wealthy capitalists and political powermongers. We, however, get to see the story from his point-of-view, and the police don't.<br />Iain Banks is one of my favorite authors, someone I truly admire for his ability to switch between genres like a chameleon changes colors. Under Iain M. Banks, he writes adventure-based science fiction that not only entertains, but usually has a moral underpinning. Without the middle initial, his books are variously mystery, thriller, or mainstream, always good, always interesting. If Banks was not so popular with other readers, I would likely have created a biopage for him similar to the one I did for Jonathan Carroll. But Carroll is a cult writer while Banks has been recognized in England as one of their best and brightest by almost every body politic. The result is that he has quite a presence of fans available to keep his name on the net and his books out of the mid-list...<br />To return to Complicity, it is a novel that is not without faults, although what one person might see as problematic another might have no difficulty with. For example, the beginning of each early chapter has a crime described in second person. Some people might be a little squeamish about phrases like \\"you hit him on the head with the tyre iron, and it sounds like egsshells cracking\\" (my words--this phrase doesn't actually appear). The sexual references are not for prudes, and, while not truly glorified, drug use is not condemned, and that does not sit well with some people either. For those with strong stomachs ant open minds, Complicity is a fine novel that is well worth your time.. The sexual references are not for prudes, and, while not truly glorified, drug use is not condemned, and that does not sit well with some people either. For those with strong stomachs ant open minds, Complicity is a fine novel that is well worth your time.	2003-02-18
1223760:US	53084041	R2YEPD5WSK574I	0142180149	283114178	Lucky Jim	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Like Wodehouse, if he were meaner spirited	I must be on some kind of roll in my mainstream reading. First was the exciting revelation that Robertson Davies wrote the types of books that appeal to me in the same way that Jonathan Carroll's do, then came the surprise that Vladimir Nabokov was as clever as Borges, yet wrote at longer lengths. If Lucky Jim is any indication, now I've just discovered an author who combines the plotting skill of P.G. Wodehouse with the detail of Davies. My lord, three great new authors in one year--I'm not sure if I can handle it.<br />Lucky Jim doubles as a book of high humor and as an attack on the staid British university system of its time (and maybe beyond--I'm no expert in its complexities). For me, it succeeds best in its first role, but that may be because if has lost some of its bite in the intervening years since its first publication. Jim Dixon, the title character, is a new lecturer in history at a mid-sized college. He finds the work almost stultifyingly boring, but the real horror is trying to achieve tenure when faced with Welch as his immediate superior. And then there's Margaret, his girlfriend, although he can't quite remember how she came by that designation, who, although pleasing enough to look upon, seems destined to be always upset with him, which is dangerous, since she tried to commit suicide when her last beau left her suddenly.<br />Imagine Wodehouse writing a Wooster/Jeeves novel in which Jeeves becomes pure blind luck, Aunt Agatha is split into component irritations, and Bertie is a young teacher with a taste for drink and a bit of a chip on his shoulder. Then exchange the fantasy 1920s setting with a realistic early 60s one. The result is as fabulous, funny and appealing as a well-written Mad TV or Monty Python skit.<br />On the strength of this novel, Amis became a spokesman for a generation of \\"angry young men.\\" I'm not qualified to comment further on that, which means I need to do some self-education on the British novel in the 1960s. Amis seems to have been the Vonnegut equivalent for Britain, that is, a novelist whose social commentary was stronger than the genre in which their books were based, which landed them with a mainstream audience. Just looking at some of his other titles reveals that Amis had an affinity for popular literature, even though his was never ghetto-ized. I'm hoping that some of his other books, like The Anti-Death League, will be as rewarding as this.have been the Vonnegut equivalent for Britain, that is, a novelist whose social commentary was stronger than the genre in which their books were based, which landed them with a mainstream audience. Just looking at some of his other titles reveals that Amis had an affinity for popular literature, even though his was never ghetto-ized. I'm hoping that some of his other books, like The Anti-Death League, will be as rewarding as this.	2003-02-18
1223833:US	53084041	R2EV9L9QPDGZ57	B00005X0X1	870015800	The tunnel of love	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Early work, minus the hard, biting satire of his best	In my search for humorous narrative, I ran across a listing of various authors who, supposedly, wrote humorous books. I could tell from my familiarity with some of the authors on the list that it was somewhat of a scattershot, but that came as no surprise--what people find funny differs as much as their taste in music. I printed the list and visited the library, reading bits and pieces of the authors' work. The one true find from all that was Peter De Vries.<br />De Vries was a writer and editor for The New Yorker from the late 1940s through the early 1970s. In addition to his magazine duties, he wrote novels on the foibles of society, including satire on the suburban trend, free love, and bringing up babies. In this novel, the satire is directed at the pretensions of the well-heeled and their desires for artistic and community acceptance.<br />The Tunnel of Love is one of his earliest novels, and, while humorous, well written and entertaining, has only a fraction of the biting satire of his later work. I'm planning on trying to read his oeuvre chronologically, to watch the development of that wit.	2003-02-18
1223924:US	53084041	R19KQ4BT499M38	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great science fiction by one of SF's best writers	When I was writing about Iain Banks and how he is one of my favorite authors, I started to make a list of who the others were. Long time followers of my comments could probably identify them better than I can, but here goes: Jonathan Carroll, P.G. Wodehouse, Tom Holt, Iain Banks, Tim Powers, Philip K. Dick, and Robertson Davies (Davies being the most recent addition). I looked at that list and knew something was wrong, and it did not take me more than a minute to identify the problem--where were the women? A problem? At least somewhat. I've never been one to totally segregate my reading, nor one to feel it a necessity to be the model of diversity in my reading choices, but I knew that I was over-looking someone. My top ten novel and short story lists both contain work by women (A.S. Byatt, Octavia Butler, and James Tiptree, Jr., to be exact), but although I like these individual works, I was not a \\"fan\\" of any of them in quite the same way as my male list. At the time I pondered it, and let it drop.<br />One chapter into Bellwether, as the grin slowly grew on my face, I was reminded of my previous exercise. For I am a fan of Connie Willis--I would donate my time to design a web site for her, to write an article about her, or conduct an interview and transcribe it. Not only is she one of the finest writers that the field has ever had, but her ideas are always interesting and the stories often amusing.<br />Take the case in point. Sandra Foster is a scientist for HiTek, Inc. studying trends and fads (things like Pet Rocks and Hula Hoops), trying to determine the causal relationship. The fad problem is a stickler, but Sandra's real nemesis is Flip, a true Gen X slacker who, in her role as mail clerk (or interdepartmental assistant) is the foil of the best laid funding plans.<br />This is comedy writing at its finest. Willis manages to combine wordplay, cynicism, juxtaposition, running gags, ironic detachment, sarcasm, misunderstandings, and physical humor in a short 247 pages (the leading, or space between the lines, and font size are great enough here that I suspect Bellwether to be close in length to novella rather than novel). But what keeps the story interesting is the concept of trends and chaos--the mixture of public obsessions with scientific theory. Bellwether is great science fiction.7 pages (the leading, or space between the lines, and font size are great enough here that I suspect Bellwether to be close in length to novella rather than novel). But what keeps the story interesting is the concept of trends and chaos--the mixture of public obsessions with scientific theory. Bellwether is great science fiction.	2003-02-18
1223977:US	53084041	R3FFNJQAOARVTB	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	5	1	5	N	N	My kind of book!	In Austin I had two good friends who were the most well-read people I had ever met until then. I've spoken briefly in this space about one of them, Mike Godwin, now a staff counsel for the Electronic Freedom Foundation and WELL gadfly. The other was Kathy Strong, who was married to Mike for a while. I briefly shared an apartment with Kathy, and I can easily recall the books lying around the house. It was she (along with Dwight Brown) who piqued my interest in Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe novels. But it is the other books--on tables, chairs, bookshelves, and stairs--that I'm thinking of now, books by Robertson Davies, Italo Calvino, and Vladimir Nabokov. I think back on this and wonder why is it only now that I am reading these books when they were clearly being recommended to me by someone whose tastes in literature I admired. I cannot remember, but did I try these books at that time and was not mature enough a reader to grasp their worth? Were there other authors about that I should remember today?<br />The occasion for these reminiscences is having just finished Nabokov's Pale Fire, which I can only describe as &quot;my kind of book.&quot; It is not a novel, although by the end you have pieced together a larger story that would not have been out of place in a novel. Nor is it poem, critical work, or index, although it contains all three of these elements. I guess if one must label it, it is &quot;experimental&quot; fiction.<br />Although the form is most unusual and does hold all appeal for me, the true pull of this work is the character of the narrator, a rogue and totally questionable source of information. His poor victims, the long-suffering poet, John Shade, and Shade's wife Sylvia, one must feel kindly towards, especially knowing the intensity of the dedicated fan.<br />I refrain from talking too much about the actual plot, although it is not necessarily a mystery. Instead I hasten to compare this work with Borges in that the creation of a European kingdom recalls his &quot;Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius.&quot; It also reminds me of that nation that Nero Wolfe is supposed to be from (or was that an actual kingdom? I never checked to see.)<br />This was my first go at Nabokov, and I suppose by my reaction to it, I should not stay too long from his other work. What shall it be: Ada? Lolita? The Collected Stories?his &quot;Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius.&quot; It also reminds me of that nation that Nero Wolfe is supposed to be from (or was that an actual kingdom? I never checked to see.)<br />This was my first go at Nabokov, and I suppose by my reaction to it, I should not stay too long from his other work. What shall it be: Ada? Lolita? The Collected Stories?	2003-02-18
1223980:US	53084041	R1RNQW2Y3PAS3B	0156962640	569366717	The White Deer	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Enjoyable, but slight	A little fantasy story by Thurber, not silly enough to be really funny, yet definitely not a serious story, either. If it had been written within this decade, it might have had that incredibly useless label post-modern thrown on it, as Thurber was one of those writers who delighted in wordplay that acknowledges the presence of the reader. A king and his three sons--two hearty hunters like their father and the youngest a musician and poet--corner a white deer who changes into a beautiful princess. The princess cannot remember her name or family, so she sets the three sons on quests. The question in the castle is whether the princess has been enchanted to forget her name, or is she a deer that has been enchanted to resemble a princess. Everything becomes clear in the end, like all good fairy tales, and Thurber gets to have a lot of fun getting there. Hopefully, you will too. I found this to be a little too similar to the humor of Juster's The Phantom Tollbooth for me to enjoy it wholeheartedly.	2003-02-18
1224055:US	53084041	R2I7YRWXTETEX2	0670873012	285154683	God of Impertinence	Books	2	1	3	N	N	General plot confusion, albeit a wonderful idea	Comic stories about gods walking among present day mortals are nothing new. The classic is Shakespeare's &quot;A Midsummer Night's Dream,&quot; but there are several exemplary twentieth century works, including my personal favorite, Thorne Smith's The Night Life of the Gods, and some of Tom Holt's recent fantasies. And it is easy to understand why the combination is popular--the author gets to comment on the foibles of mortality from an omniscient viewpoint without having to worry about going through any middleman.<br />The god of the title is Hermes (or Mercury if you prefer Romanization), who has been chained to a rock in the Aegean Sea by Zeus because of his disrespect. Zeus, being somewhat less intelligent than powerful, promptly forgets about him for a few thousand years. The novel opens with him obtaining his freedom by natural processes (a volcano) and being observed by Helga, a passenger on a passing cruise ship.<br />Great opening, but for some reason it never seems to rise above it, and constantly disappoints. Maybe it is a factor of the translation that the story seems to shift around. I could never tell if Helga was aware of Hermes' divinity or if she was an immortal herself. Some of the social commentary comes through, but never enough to break through the plot confusion.	2003-02-18
1224149:US	53084041	RIX64MUQEI5GP	9997528239	341367668	A Buyer's Market	Books	4	1	4	N	N	I'm warming up to this series	The second novel in the 12-part Dance to the Music of Time series. I enjoyed this one a little more than the first volume. I believe this due to the first volume's need to introduce and elaborate on the four main characters. Nicholas Jenkins, our narrator, who I complained about being almost invisible in the first book, starts taking on shape here, dissembling on love and ambition. Stringham and Templar are still here, and by the end of the book, both married, but the real main character here is Widmerpool, the young man with the least social status, but with the most ambition of the four.<br />The first book was about the four in grade school to university; this one is about their initial entry into society, including romance and marriage. It is within the context of his feelings for the opposite sex that we finally start to understand Jenkins, but even he is overshadowed here by the fumblings and failings of Widmerpool, who first pines for the heart of Barbara, then falls in with a \\"bad\\" girl.<br />I'm still unsure whether Powell is a writer for me. Although I do enjoy mysteries and puzzles and admire books that are clever, I still like to get a feeling that I have solved the mystery by the end of the book. I believe that a character here gets an abortion, but as it is never spelled out (Jenkins is too much a gentlemen to actually put it into raw language), I wonder if I am reading between the lines correctly.<br />After the first book, I was not sure that I would continue the series, but since I have the first three in an omnibus volume, I decided to continue on. If the following books make the same jump in readability and interest as between the first two, the twelfth book will likely be my all-time-favorite novel.	2003-02-18
1224270:US	53084041	R2DRAXTM8TZNVF	0140120815	96929944	A Voice from the Attic: Essays on the Art of Reading	Books	3	11	11	N	N	An impassioned plea for better readers	Although billed as a collection, this series of essays holds its own as an extended monologue. Davies, as erudite a reader and writer as you will ever discover, is not for the faint of head. In his argument here, he attempts to describe why reading--intense, concentrated reading--can be valued as art. The likely argument against this idea is that reading is not an act of creation, which art aspires to. He quickly deflates that argument with a description of reading that could apply just as well to performance art.<br />Although some of the writers he mentions here will likely be unknown to modern readers (they were certainly unusual to me), the points he makes are universal. We are in need of this even more today than when it was written.	2003-02-18
1224356:US	53084041	R33HR61RIELXTA	0575070528	619526850	The Jagged Orbit	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Interesting for the fan of Brunner's more serious work	I cannot recall what I was reading at the time, but the gist of it was that Brunner wrote four challenging and experimental novels in the late 60s/early 70s. Of those four, I had read three and considered two of them to be among my top 20 of all time (Stand on Zanzibar and The Sheep Look Up; the other that I had read was The Shockwave Rider, which I like and which should be mandatory reading for cybergeeks, but I don't think if has the same impact of the other two). The fourth was this novel, The Jagged Orbit.<br />Of the four it is by far the weakest and suffers much by time. However, you can see in the characters of Matthew Flamen and Elias Mogshack the seeds of later ones, especially Chad C. Mulligan of Stand on Zanzibar. (I also sense a similarity with Norman Spinrad's Jack Barron, but I cannot recall who come first.) The stylistic changes from his earlier work, and that would make Stand on Zanzibar such a landmark work in SF, are present here mainly in the chapter titles and the structure of the beginning and end. While I hesitate to recommend this to anyone, it proved interesting to me.	2003-02-18
1224724:US	53084041	RG44N669QA7F1	067102082X	385052238	The Gun Seller	Books	4	233	270	N	N	A promising first novel--think Wodehouse writing James Bond	I was trying to be pithy when I said to Jill that the difference between English and American comedians is that the English ones write their own material, for books by comedians are becoming quite common on both sides of the Atlantic. Their is a difference, however, and it is in the \\"type\\" of books that the two nationalities differ in: American comedians write up their monologues in a collected set of essays (Jerry Seinfield's Seinlanguage, Bill Cosby's books, Rita Rudner's I'm Naked Under My Clothes, Paul Reisner's book), whereas English comedians write novels (Python's Terry Jones and his books for children, Stephen Fry, and the case in point). I attribute the difference to education. Your typical American comedian skipped university to work through the comedy club circuit, hoping for that gig on the Tonight Show to make a break, get their own HBO special, then maybe movies or TV. British comedians typically begin in the comedy glee club of their universities (I believe it's the Cambridge \\"Footlights\\", or is that Oxford? As an American, I can't keep them straight, which is to Americans like saying I can't tell the difference between a Yankee and a Southerner), spend years as bit actors in off-West End productions, until finally they get picked up for a movie or a starring spot in their own West End revue. The British, thus, tend to be grounded in the literature of humor, rather than just the anecdotal type so favored by the Americans. Of course, I'm making this up out of whole cloth without bothering to do a spec of research, so I wouldn't base a thesis on it.<br />Hugh Laurie should be recognizable to you from his role as Bertie Wooster in \\"Wooster and Jeeves\\" (shown in American on Masterpiece Theater), as well as his supporting roles in the British comedy series \\"Blackadder\\" (a personal favorite), the Kenneth Branagh movie \\"Peter's Friends,\\" the Ang Lee/Emma Thompsom collaboration of Austen's \\"Sense and Sensibility,\\" and the recent dreadful live-action remake of Disney's \\"101 Dalmatians.\\" The Gun Seller is his first novel, and after the Disney movie, I think he should chuck the acting business and go into writing full time, because he shows extreme promise as an author. Imagine Wodehouse deciding that he wanted to write a James Bond novel, and you've got some idea of what The Gun Seller is like.<br />The plot, which is actually more important here than it is in most modern comic novels, concerns Thomas Lang, ex-officer of the Scots Guard, who finds himself approached in Holland and asked to murder a man for an obscene amount of money. His sense of honor not only has him turn down the offer, but when he returns to England, he sets off to warn the man that someone is offering money for his death. In the best tradition, complications ensue, including the British Secret Service, the young daughter of a wealthy American businessman, an art gallery, the military-industrial complex, a terrorist organization called \\"The Sword of Justice,\\" and a \\"kick-ass\\" helicopter.<br />Laurie is extremely witty, and chuckling at the language in this book should be expected. Take, for example, the typical description of the attractive woman--every spy and detective book seems to have one, right?--and how Laurie makes it unique:<br />\\"She came towards me and stopped. She was shorter than she'd looked on the other side of the room. I smiled again, and she took a cigarette from the packet, but didn't light it. She just played with it slowly, and then pointed a pair of green eyes at me.<br />I say a pair. I mean her pair. She didn't get a pair of someone else's eyes out from a drawer and point them at me. She pointed her own pair of huge, pale, grey, pale, huge eyes at me. The sort of eyes that can make a grown man talk gibberish to himself. Get a grip, for Christ's sake.\\"<br />I like the way he is able to be self-referential without breaking the flow of the paragraph.<br />This book also has one of the best last lines I've read in a long time, making an ironic point that is quite amusing and yet also draws up the story in a conclusion. I liked this book a lot, and hope to read more by Laurie in the future.ing an ironic point that is quite amusing and yet also draws up the story in a conclusion. I liked this book a lot, and hope to read more by Laurie in the future.	2003-02-17
1224760:US	53084041	RQK0W1SXEEZ0B	0441385540	367324940	Jhereg	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable, but nothing really special	Brust is another one of those authors that I somehow managed to miss, even though he has quite a few novels to his credit and a sizable fan following. I was wanting something light and adventurous, having gotten bogged down in the middle of Durrell's Clea. Jhereg was what I expected. A clean, no-frills adventure of an assassin who might have taken a job that was too much for him.<br />I sit thinking about that last line and the possibility that I may have offended the Brust legions, for it is true that Brust's world is unique and interesting. He also does a good job of avoiding info-dump, letting the reader slowly discover his world and its rules. But, after acknowledging his creativity in society and planet-building, when it comes to plot, there's not much new. Like Bujold, may be I'm making a mistake by reading these early, journeyman works and trying to match it with their reputation that is instead based on a larger volume of work or a later, master-level effort.	2003-02-17
1225035:US	53084041	RMSTX9CV0YCTR	1882968220	77779126	Sinai Tapestry	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Interesting beginning, but is it worth it to continue?	I managed to find the first volume of Whittemore's &quot;Sinai Tapestry&quot; at our local public library. True to form, it has the same weird touch that characterized his first novel (Quin's Shanghai Circus), but lingers more on each of its characters. Whittemore is writing for the long haul, and what may look like a singular book on the surface is obviously only part of the whole. This, I think, is my problem with it. I was so amazed by Quin's Shanghai Circus, that I expected more of the same here. The ingredients are the same; the cake tastes different.<br />This volume introduces the characters, including: Skanderberg Wallenstein, who discovers the original Bible and a disturbing secret about it, and so decides to write his own; Haj Harun, antiquities dealer who has been alive for over three-thousand years, and sometimes having trouble keeping his centuries straight; O'Sullivan Beare, the umptiumpth son of a poor Irish fisherman, caught up in another war in the Middle East; and Stern, son of Strongbow, who feels it is his destiny to try to build a new world in a land that fiercely resists anything but tradition. Whittemore's trademark method of interweaving the background of his characters while continuing an overall plot puts all these characters in touch with each other, sometimes working together, sometimes at ends.<br />The details and some sections here are as good as anything I've ever read, but the novel didn't congeal for me, and I was disappointed. Maybe I had expected too much. I'll still finish off the series, as I find the books, but unless the succeeding books somehow cast new light on the first volume, this one was a wash for me.	2003-02-17
1225260:US	53084041	R1VDP4ZJQOZ1QT	1556224575	767148427	Mastering Magic Cards: An Introduction to the Art of Masterful Deck Construction	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Outdated resource; interesting for historical purposes only	[originally written in 1997]<br />Yes, I do play the game. I first saw it being played at MileHiCon in Denver in 1992, and I kick myself for not buying cards then (that would have been alpha edition cards...). I kept hearing about the game, and finally picked up my first deck at a small gaming convention here in the Tri-Cities. While it's not been an obsession, as it can be with some people, I do waste more time on it than I should. When I first started to play, I got Jill to play with me, but then I rooked in some co-workers, and now it is the daily game at lunch that keeps us constantly creating and tweaking our decks.<br />If you have never heard of Magic: The Gathering, then you are probably quite confused by now. In a nutshell, Magic was created by a mathematics professor from Walla Walla to be a simple little game that could be played by two people in 30 minutes. Instead, he created a marketing monster. You buy cards to make up your playing set like baseball cards--random cards are sealed in foiled packs so you have no idea what you are getting when you buy them. From all these random cards, you and your opponent make up decks of around 60 cards each. The game is a contest of warring wizards, casting spells that summon creatures and enchantments to attack or otherwise reduce the opponent wizard's life to 0 from a starting amount of 20. For a simple game, it becomes quite complicated after that, because there are now over 1000 different cards to select for your decks, thus ensuring that almost every game you play will be different.<br />The book at hand tries to make sense of some of the chaos surrounding the game by discussing the mathematics of deck building (why you shouldn't play with more than 60 cards, what percentage of &quot;mana&quot;-- the magic that fuels spells--you need, etc.), and strategies of play. When this book was published, it was more relevant; today, I would not recommend this book except for those Internet Magic players because many of the deck ideas discussed herein involve out-of-print cards that would cost a fortune to actually possess. Magic is something like the Internet--it changes rapidly, and what might have been a workable strategy four months ago is likely a quick defeat today (or outlawed in tournament play).deck ideas discussed herein involve out-of-print cards that would cost a fortune to actually possess. Magic is something like the Internet--it changes rapidly, and what might have been a workable strategy four months ago is likely a quick defeat today (or outlawed in tournament play).	2003-02-17
1225435:US	53084041	R1OPFKAVUY9X60	0156001144	263744971	Nebula Awards  31: SFWA's Choices For The Best Science Fiction And Fantasy Of The Year (Nebula Awards Showcase) (No 31)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Worth it for "Think Like a Dinosaur" alone	This is the last volume of Pamela Sargent's stint as the Nebula anthology editor, which is unfortunate because she excels at editing these types of varied story collections (such as her Women of Wonder series). There's more work involved in editing a volume like this than you might think--given a limited amount of space, trying to cover an award that is for novels as well as short stories, one must carefully pick and choose. It will be interesting to see who SFWA finds to replace her.<br />Now as for the material itself:<br />\\"Solitude,\\" Ursula K. Le Guin -- I am not a big Le Guin fan-in fact, you could say that I dislike most of her work excluding the Earthsea books. So, when I say that I enjoyed a Le Guin story then it must be special indeed. \\"Solitude\\" is a story of culture, one alien to our own. Le Guin posits a world in which past overpopulation has led present society to become the ultimate introverts. Not only do the women live apart from the men (as seen in many feminist SF stories in the past), but they live apart from each other. But it is the method of the story, putting a young child in the place of the observer, in which Le Guin achieves something new here.<br />\\"Death and the Librarian,\\" Esther Friesner -- Except for the early part, in which the chameleon-like nature of Death is revealed, this story plods along. When it comes down to the talking heads at the end, I was ready to toss it across the room. Sure, Friesner can write welt enough, but this doesn't have anything Nebula-worthy to it. A disappointment.<br />\\"Alien Jane,\\" Kelley Eskridge -- A nice SF tale, taken from the pages of Oliver Sacks, or at least, that is the way it reads to me. Well done, with a satisfying ending.<br />\\"Think Like A Dinosaur,\\" James Patrick Kelly -- I haven't road a story this good in a long time! This is the kind of tale that can only be done in SF. Basically a study of what \\"true\\" matter transportation would be like, including what the hard choices would be. The result is the best short story I have read in two years.<br />\\"The Lincoln Train,\\" Maureen F. McHugh -- An alternate history story with its jumping off point being the survival of Lincoln, except as a handicapped president. The concept is interesting, and the story has a nice moral center, but there was nothing that truly thrilled me here.<br />\\"The Resurrection Man's Legacy,\\" Dale Bailey -- A baseball SF tale, reminiscent of Bradbury in its nostalgia and feeling. I was never a Bradbury fan, especially of his warmed over reminisce s of the 5O's, plus I dislike the reverence people give to sport (as opposed to games), so this one really didn't stand much of a chance with me.<br />\\"You See But You Do Not Observe,\\" Robert J. Sawyer -- Physics and Sherlock Holmes? Okay, so it was a cute idea, but this is a best of the year. I trust that Sawyer's novel, which did win the Nebula, was much better.<br />\\"Enchanted Village,\\" A.E. Van Vogt -- A story from the Grand Master, possibly a little long for the result, but at least it is a result worth reading for. A spaceship crashes on Mars, leaving one lone survivor, who finds a deserted Martian village. The Village may be able to provide for him, but only if he can somehow teach it his needs. Good ending.<br />\\"Old Legends,\\" Gregory Benford -- A memoir and essay about SF's role in society, especially American government policy, this was entertaining and enlightening. Benford's goal in this essay is to justify the long held claim by SF fans that stories lead to science just as much as science leads to stories. While I have my doubts about SF's influence today (especially in these times of endless Star Trek novels), Benford shows that it was a very powerful force in the not-so-distant past.<br />\\"The Narcissus Plague,\\" Lisa Goldstein -- Cute idea--what if there was a virus that, when you caught it, all you could do was talk about yourself? I liked the conceit, and the story showed promise, but the ending was disappointing.<br />\\"Last Summer at Mars Hill,\\" Elizabeth Hand -- A nicely told tale of death and unknown beings. Its power comes not from the fantasy element, but from the portrayal of the characters, each well-drawn and believable. The writing and characterization was so well done that I really wanted to like this story more, but it lacked that sense of the fantastic that I expect from a fantasy story. Great mainstream work, I just want more in my fantasies.<br />Overall, this was a very rewarding volume. Of the stories, Kelly's \\"Think Like A Dinosaur\\" was such a gem, that I will likely be recommending it for years to come. The other highlight was Benford's essay./>\\"Last Summer at Mars Hill,\\" Elizabeth Hand -- A nicely told tale of death and unknown beings. Its power comes not from the fantasy element, but from the portrayal of the characters, each well-drawn and believable. The writing and characterization was so well done that I really wanted to like this story more, but it lacked that sense of the fantastic that I expect from a fantasy story. Great mainstream work, I just want more in my fantasies.<br />Overall, this was a very rewarding volume. Of the stories, Kelly's \\"Think Like A Dinosaur\\" was such a gem, that I will likely be recommending it for years to come. The other highlight was Benford's essay.	2003-02-17
1225495:US	53084041	R3SOG8JSRQL7XC	0553564366	165021414	Impossible Things	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Masterful short stories	A collection of stories by Connie Willis, one of the modern masters of the science fiction short.<br />\\"The Last of the Winnebagos\\" -- I remember reading this story years ago and not caring for it that much. Rereadiug it ten years later, I find it much more appealing. In one sense it is a mystery story; in another it is a cautionary tale. The way that Willis weaves together the two-- the tale of the dead dog and the new, authoritarian society--is fresh and clever. Sentimental? Yes. But in the best way.<br />\\"Even the Queen\\" -- One of my favorite stories, not just because it flirts with taboo, but because it is written with such an easy and joyous manner. Willis' comic stories are like those by Wodehouse--she is never content with a single gag, but can mix in wordplay, pop references, slapstick, and play off the old cliches in new and unpredictable ways.<br />\\"Schwarzchild Radius\\" -- Just so as you don't get the impression that I worship the paper that Willis types upon, I will gladly admit that I don't care for this particular story. I believe that this was one of the first stories in which she portrays a physics concept in characters and setting. Later on, in \\"Blued Moon\\" and \\"At the Rialto,\\" the same method, when used with comedy, works to much better effect.<br />\\"Ado\\" -- One of the comedies that has not aged well, due partly to the backlash against \\"Political Correctness\\" of which this story was only a small part. There are parts that are still funny, like the running battle between the teacher and the sun worshipping student fought with Bible versus, but the end less litany of offended organizations goes stale about halfway through.<br />\\"Spice Pogrom\\" -- This is the kind of comedy that will never die; well, at least I hope it won't, because, like Willis, I am enamoured of the screwball as nothing else. Yes, it may seem as formulaic as any pulp adventure, but it has at its core some thing that no mere adventure story has, and that is a true sense of romance. We may want to be the Lone Ranger, but we know in our hearts that we can not ride Silver. On the other hand, with a little wit and luck, we are able to be romantic and silly--it is closer to us.<br />\\"Winter's Tale\\" -- One of the reasons Will is appeals to me so is that I share so many of her interests--screwballs, Wodehouse, and Shakespeare. Here the scholar in Willis truly shows, similar to her wonderful novel Doomsday Book. A great story and a history lesson--what more can you ask for?<br />\\"Chance\\" -- This is as close to a mainstream tale as you will ever see in a genre publication (it first appeared in Asimov's) but it is the kind of story that is popping up with more regularity in small-press literary and mainstream magazines.<br />\\"In the Late Cretacious\\" -- This is another one that did not age too well. Basically, it tries to put a comparison between academic competition and the evolution of dinosaurs, along with a running joke on parking. Bits are funny, but the whole is tired.<br />\\"Time Out\\" -- Another one in a similar vein, although in the end it feels more like \\"Space Pogrom\\" then \\"Ado.\\" The comedy is present, but more organic--not relying so much on repetition, as it does character. And, while it is a story about time travel, it is also, and more importantly, a story about time.<br />\\"Jack\\" -- Another war story, but one that I was able to relate to. Loosely related to Dracula, this has some interesting points about war and its effect on people. Much more subtle than normal Willis fare.<br />\\"At the Rialto\\" -- I like this story. Of course I do--I'm a sucker for quantum physics--but even I have problems following the pattern and ideas here. In this case, Willis worked hard on her research. At least you can read it without understanding everything.<br />A very good collection on the whole, and definitely worth your time.. We may want to be the Lone Ranger, but we know in our hearts that we can not ride Silver. On the other hand, with a little wit and luck, we are able to be romantic and silly--it is closer to us. <br />\\"Winter's Tale\\" -- One of the reasons Will is appeals to me so is that I share so many of her interests--screwballs, Wodehouse, and Shakespeare. Here the scholar in Willis truly shows, similar to her wonderful novel Doomsday Book. A great story and a history lesson--what more can you ask for? <br />\\"Chance\\" -- This is as close to a mainstream tale as you will ever see in a genre publication (it first appeared in Asimov's) but it is the kind of story that is popping up with more regularity in small-press literary and mainstream magazines. <br />\\"In the Late Cretacious\\" -- This is another one that did not age too well. Basically, it tries to put a comparison between academic competition and the evolution of dinosaurs, along with a running joke on parking. Bits are funny, but the whole is tired. <br />\\"Time Out\\" -- Another one in a similar vein, although in the end it feels more like \\"Space Pogrom\\" then \\"Ado.\\" The comedy is present, but more organic--not relying so much on repetition, as it does character. And, while it is a story about time travel, it is also, and more importantly, a story about time. <br />\\"Jack\\" -- Another war story, but one that I was able to relate to. Loosely related to Dracula, this has some interesting points about war and its effect on people. Much more subtle than normal Willis fare. <br />\\"At the Rialto\\" -- I like this story. Of course I do--I'm a sucker for quantum physics--but even I have problems following the pattern and ideas here. In this case, Willis worked hard on her research. At least you can read it without understanding everything.<br />A very good collection on the whole, and definitely worth your time.	2003-02-17
1240191:US	53084041	R2YM6926JB5TPL	1563898446	331222438	Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A starkly individual vision of American authoritarianism	Unlike a fair number of people, I enjoyed Frank Miller's return to the world of his groundbreaking Batman: The Dark Knight Returns. It's not the same work, it's not even the same world, but Miller hasn't lost his ability to be both provocative and interesting. This is a true example of the DC \\"Elseworlds\\" concept--this is not the Bob Kane Batman, nor is it the Siegel and Shuster Superman. Instead, every character here is revisioned and recreated by Miller to fit the story and the themes that he wants to explore.<br />The problem with this graphic novel, and what has turned a lot of Miller fans against this book, is that it breaks down in the last book, delayed in its original publication because of the events of September 11. Maybe it's because I didn't read the book as it came out in its installments that this didn't feel like that much of a break to me, for even in the earliest moments of this graphic novel, Miller's disdain for authority, especially that of governmental \\"big brotherness,\\" is readily apparent. If it becomes even more over the top at the end, why that seems just a natural extension of how the book starts.<br />What The Dark Knight Strikes Again reminds me the most of is Howard Chaykin's wonderful 1980s comic, American Flagg!, that was quite prescient in its vision of a world of reality TV and police-for-hire. Miller's extrapolation of current news-as-entertainment and rock-stars-as-political-gadflies doesn't seem all that wild in comparison. Outside of comics, the quick comparison for this volume is to John Varley's thinly veiled diatribe against the Hollywood system in the third volume of his Gaia trilogy, Demon. Like Varley, Miller's got a hefty axe to grind, and he swings with some impact against such easy targets as John Ashcroft and the television media.<br />With each successive project, Frank Miller's artwork has gotten more crude and yet more expressive. I believe his writing has as well. There's a rawness here that is quite emotional and yet so raw that you wonder if it ever saw an editor. It's rare to see such an individual expression of belief in a superhero comic, where most of what we see is company-produced on the assembly line. I hope we get to see more of this kind of thing, even if it produces the kind of mixed response that has greeted this particular work.et so raw that you wonder if it ever saw an editor. It's rare to see such an individual expression of belief in a superhero comic, where most of what we see is company-produced on the assembly line. I hope we get to see more of this kind of thing, even if it produces the kind of mixed response that has greeted this particular work.	2003-02-05
1249143:US	53084041	R2TCSLKAA466FJ	044990895X	949241344	Wild Things	Books	3	0	0	N	N	for those with short attention spans	A collection of the syndicated newspaper column of the same name, detailing silly and serious items on the animal kingdom.  This was a &quot;bedside book&quot; for me; perfect short attention span theater material. The chapters are organized by &quot;things,&quot; like &quot;White House Dog Things&quot; and &quot;Your Pet Cat Things.&quot;  Within the chapters are little tidbits of titillation, like slugs with penises larger than their bodies and White House staff with a penchant for killing dogs.  Nothing earth shattering here, but it provided for interesting dreams.	2003-01-28
1249151:US	53084041	R373LMGD0VYVVM	0312146981	316386303	The Panic Hand	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wild and Wonderful Fare	I hate to harp on it, but Jonathan Carroll has problems ending stories.  I would like to say I don't care because even a partial story by Carroll is enough, but the truth is that I'm always left with a craving that you get when you read a story and you're wrapped up into it and you require completion.  Supposedly American audiences require a \\"happy\\" completion, but I hope I'm beyond that.  \\"Uh-oh City\\" has all the things that are quintessential Carroll: characters who are intrinsically interesting, a doozy of a \\"weirdness,\\" and the, unfortunately, open ending.  The premise is that there are 36 people who are God, but not individually, but collectively.  One-thirty-sixth of God is still pretty much amazing, though, and when God(sub36) tells you that they are dying and you are next in line to become part of the 36thhood, what can you say? Complications ensue, as they usually do, and things are never as they seem in a Carroll story, but after the final twisty turn we reach the last sentence and we are still on the precipice of understanding, and need a final push to put us over...and it never comes.<br />  The other stories here are more of the same wild, wonderful fare.  THE PANIC HAND was originally published in Germany with a slightly different table of contents.  I own a copy of that book, but being unable to read German was slightly hampered in trying to understand the stories. Carroll's better at the long form--his favorite literary device is the untrustworthy narrator, and it takes at least 50 pages to set up a story with one of those that won't annoy the reader.  Even still, his tendency for the twist and his incredible way of creating characters that you would like to know in a few sentences is enjoyable even in the short form.	2003-01-28
1249153:US	53084041	R2AF154CYQWLPX	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	In my selection of the top ten first novels	One of my weaknesses is a fondness for novels about fictitious music groups, evidenced by some of my favorites: George R.R. Martin's The Armageddon Rag, Iain Banks' Espedair Street and Roddy Doyle's The Commitments. To this group I can now add the first novel by Nick Hornby, appropriately titled after words found on many of your finest long-playing records.<br />Rob, Barry and Dick are clerks at an offbeat record store, the type of store which never seems to attract many customers but still manages to stay in business. They've got some of the latest CDs, but their mainstay business is handling those obscure wax singles and recordings by local artists. The three also have a fondness of putting together lists of their \\"Top 5\\" things: films, Elvis Costello songs, episodes of \\"Cheers,\\" etc. The story is told in the first person by Rob, as his Top Five list of ex-girlfriends.<br />The whole premise here is unassuming, yet Hornby's gift for capturing the ennui of the dropped out class with gifts for accumulating an extraordinary amount of trivia is perfect for the plot. While this sounds suspiciously like a Generation X novel, or maybe even the plot to Kevin Smith's movie \\"Clerks,\\" Hornby escapes the genre by writing a charming book filled with hope and love (although there's some guilt and pain that has to be dealt with before you get to the end). I enjoyed Hornby's style as well--clean, with lots of true- sounding dialogue, and embellishment only when necessary. A great first novel, and a writer to watch for in the future.	2003-01-28
1249285:US	53084041	R1UAWF9SIT4B37	0812516214	584076112	Dreams Underfoot (Newford)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Overcame my biases	No matter how much one reads, there's always an author or two that always seems to manage to slip through the cracks. For me, it was de Lint. I had read some stories by de Lint in Year's Best volumes, but never had picked up a novel or a collection. Spurred on by continual references to his writing on Rondua, and a recommendation from Alexlit (do you get the feeling that these two resources have been ruling my reading list lately? you'd be right), I picked up this collection of stories set in the fictional but familiar city of Newford.<br />The term used to pigeonhole de Lint's stories is \\"urban fantasy,\\" in that he places the creatures of fantasy--goblins, faeries, etc.--into a realistic cityscape. This differs from the magic realism approach because many of de Lint's human characters are astonished to see the magic; in magic realism, the fantasy is taken as a given--as if it were normal. His major characters are a ragtag assortment of artists: Jilly Coppercorn, a painter and savior of strays; Christy Riddell, writer of fantasy stories and possibly de Lint's alter ego; Geordie Riddell, busker (a street musician) fiddler; Meran and Cerin, wife and husband duo of harp and flute.<br />I liked the stories, but had an initial unfavorable reaction to the entire book by the fawning introduction by Terri Windling, who also edited the book and did the cover art. It was lucky that the story containing a reference to Windling was halfway through the book, giving me enough of a taste of de Lint's true style. If the reference had been in the first story, I would likely have tossed the book across the room. In a case such as this, I think it better to let the stories speak for themselves, or maybe the introduction would have been better as an afterword. To belabor the point, there's a real danger in this almost incestial relationship between editor and author, writer and artist, creator and critic. Already walking a fine line by having a near alter-ego in Christy Riddell, the reader begins to wonder how much of this the author believes as fact or fiction himself. Self-referential comments are almost too precious, threatening the suspension of disbelief barrier, or at least, jarring the reader with the realization that they are reading, as in a film when the microphone boom dips into the shot.<br />The fact that de Lint overcame this problem is all due to the stories. As I read them, I kept saying to myself, this is nothing special, this is nothing different. They are fantasy stories, pure and simple. Take an old tale, graft it with an urban setting, and voila. Except that the characters start living in your mind. You start to know what Jilly will say, or look forward to seeing Geordie step into another characters' story. You start to feel for the characters, wanting the story to end with a happy ever after for them just like in a normal fairy tale, yet knowing that this is a different type of story. People get hurt, people suffer loss, people die.<br />The two best tales here are the ones original to this collection: \\"In the House of My Enemy,\\" a story about child abuse, and \\"Ghosts of Wind and Shadow,\\" a tale of belief and self-knowledge. The ones I liked least were the ones that had been written for theme anthologies. De Lint was good at keeping the flavor of Newford in these stories, but each still lacked something that the ones not written to meet a certain theme had--something organic, as if he had needed to force or bend the theme stories slightly, making them a little out of wack compared to his others. Although I enjoyed the collection, I am looking forward to reading a novel by de Lint rather than more short stories. His is a style and manner that can easily benefit from the longer form, and I am anxious to see exactly how true that statement can be.ader begins to wonder how much of this the author believes as fact or fiction himself. Self-referential comments are almost too precious, threatening the suspension of disbelief barrier, or at least, jarring the reader with the realization that they are reading, as in a film when the microphone boom dips into the shot.<br />The fact that de Lint overcame this problem is all due to the stories. As I read them, I kept saying to myself, this is nothing special, this is nothing different. They are fantasy stories, pure and simple. Take an old tale, graft it with an urban setting, and voila. Except that the characters start living in your mind. You start to know what Jilly will say, or look forward to seeing Geordie step into another characters' story. You start to feel for the characters, wanting the story to end with a happy ever after for them just like in a normal fairy tale, yet knowing that this is a different type of story. People get hurt, people suffer loss, people die.<br />The two best tales here are the ones original to this collection: \\"In the House of My Enemy,\\" a story about child abuse, and \\"Ghosts of Wind and Shadow,\\" a tale of belief and self-knowledge. The ones I liked least were the ones that had been written for theme anthologies. De Lint was good at keeping the flavor of Newford in these stories, but each still lacked something that the ones not written to meet a certain theme had--something organic, as if he had needed to force or bend the theme stories slightly, making them a little out of wack compared to his others. Although I enjoyed the collection, I am looking forward to reading a novel by de Lint rather than more short stories. His is a style and manner that can easily benefit from the longer form, and I am anxious to see exactly how true that statement can be.	2003-01-28
1249490:US	53084041	RNSR0QRCM0K0M	0140061908	109631508	Spend Game (Lovejoy Mystery)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The original Antiques Roadshow	I sometimes think of Lovejoy, Gash's antiques-cum-detective, as the larcenous equivalent of Angela Lansbury's Murder She Wrote character.  Which is to say that were either of them real, I wouldn't want to be a friend or relative for fear of being murdered or suspected of being a murderer.  The problem is symptomatic of any mystery series in which the detective is anything but that by trade, as the writer tries to consistently involve the character in skullduggery.<br />  In this episode, an old war-buddy fellow dealer is bumped off only slightly before the book opens, and while Lovejoy witnesses the act, his tendency for self-preservation and the fact that he was currently involved in an adulterous tryst, prevents him from coming forward with what little information he could glean to the police.  Of course, Lovejoy wouldn't trust the local constable to sneeze without some peppery remarks from his corner, and the rest of the book goes on like the usual, with Lovejoy achieving vengeance and satisfying his greed in roughly the same equal mixture.<br />  It's not so much Gash's plots that keep me reading these, but the pleasure of reading his undeniable joy in describing antiques and their history.  I like to think of these books as much of an education in a subject that I know nothing about as much as pure entertainment.	2003-01-28
1249573:US	53084041	R45XLT9YX4PYT	0815411995	535026168	The Runaway Bride: Hollywood Romantic Comedy of the 1930s	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An excellent book on the subject	Ever since the Battelle Film Club's showing of Preston Sturges' The Palm Beach Story, I've been on a screwball kick.  Screenplays, biographies, non-fiction, what-have-you about that lunatic genre of film greatly interest me.  This book by Kendall isn't solely about screwball, but rather an overview of the larger film genre that it falls under, the romantic comedy.  Sturges is only the last chapter here.  The majority of director coverage goes to Frank Capra and Leo McCarey, and the book goes even more into the lives of the major actresses of the period, Barbara Stanwyck, Katherine Hepburn, Ginger Rogers, and Claudette Colbert, who the author asserts were co-creaters of the classic romantic comedy films.  The argument goes like this:  due to the depression and the unusual success of particular directors (men, and I use the term correctly in this case, who were able to fulfill the cathartic needs of the public going through this rough period), these directors were given extremely free reign.  They used it to explore collaborations with their favorite subjects, these independent women.  Movies before and after delegated women more to the supporting roles (with notable exceptions, but only as exceptions), but in these romantic comedies of the 30s the women were the lead and often the most sympathetic and fleshed-out characters.&lt;/p&gt;<br /><br />  While the descriptions of the making of the movies was quite interesting, it is the concise biographies of the people involved--directors, actors, actresses, and writers--that help you understand this moment in cinema history.  An excellent book on its subject.	2003-01-28
1249727:US	53084041	RNNGKIWCYON7X	1576466388	477813094	Emerald Eyes: A Tale of the Continuing Time	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A fun ride!	Long a favorite of the rec.arts.sf.written newsgroup, Daniel Keys Moran is an author who, by all rights, should be more popular than he is. Here is a writer who has an world so thoroughly mapped out that he plans thirty-two books to tell its entire story. While his influences are centered directly in the science fiction field, his plotting and writing are strong, if not subtle. What makes Moran so different from bestselling authors like, say, Orson Scott Card or Lois McMaster Bujold, who have similar influences and styles? Maybe it is because he is not as prolific as these two, and can't satisfy the fan craving for one to two books a year?<br />Let me get it straight here, and say that Moran's writing is never going to win him any literary prizes. His goal is adventure on the grand scale, not style or depth of human understanding. Yes, he can touch on emotions, but it is the action--the events--that concern him. It is a proud science fiction tradition, of which Asimov was its chief adherent for so long. Moran's a modern author, though, and while he writes in a traditional manner, his subject matter and some of his language would have been quite shocking in 1950.<br />Emerald Eyes is the first volume in Moran's epic vision of a series entitled \\"The Tales of the Continuing Time,\\" a series that he has been planning and designing since he was thirteen years old (he goes into this in a quite amusing afterword to this volume). I remember doing the same thing when I was a teenager; I had a couple of spiral ring notebooks that I wrote the adventures of a couple of friends and myself interacting with fantasy and movie characters. I had them all planned out in alphabetical order, with the first two volumes entitled Anything Can Happen and Does and Anything Goes (I know, I know, but I was young, and it is amazing the sheer intensity and ambition of youth). I wonder now where those two notebooks are, having lost my vision sometime in high school. Moran's vision never left him, and he continued to define, invent, and catalogue characters and events in the epic struggle of the \\"Time Wars.\\"<br />The timing of Emerald Eyes is in 50 years, when the United Nations has assumed control over the earth, sometimes by force as in the case of Japan and the United States. The French, who backed the UN early, are the ethnicity that now is in the ascendancy. Trying to genetically engineer humans to be better soldiers for them (to help control what they view as endless resistance), they create a race of telepaths, the first of which is Carl Castanaveras. Most of the novel is about Carl's struggle to free the telepaths (numbering almost 350 after thirty years of gene splicing and cloning experiments) from being slaves in the service of the U.N.'s peacekeeping force.<br />There's a lot going on beyond that in this novel, because of the depth of Moran's world building. The story may follow one plot, but there's many more sub-plots going on that intermix with the major plot, and while some of them are resolved, many of them are left to be the subject of later volumes. In most cases, this would be extremely annoying, but Moran makes it work through a combination of first person and third person narration, and through the jutzpah of trying to envision a series involving time travel in such detail. After finishing Emerald Eyes, it is hard not to desire more, to find out exactly what was going on with Camber Tremodian and his prey, what the House of November was and what was its gift, what a Long Run entailed, and who was Lady Blue.<br />This is stuff that cults are built around, and Moran has his faithful. But, for some reason, none of the faithful seem to be publishers. There have only been three novels of the Continuing Time published (I think--I was trying to figure out if Moran's first novel, Armageddon Blues, was a Continuing Time novel or not), and recently Moran bought the rights to the books back. His most recent effort is a collaborative novel with hissister that I do not believe is in this series. I enjoyed Emerald Eyes, and I've been told that The Long Run is even better. If it is, I might have to join the faithful and queue up to wait for future volumes, even if Moran has to self-publish them.sister that I do not believe is in this series. I enjoyed Emerald Eyes, and I've been told that The Long Run is even better. If it is, I might have to join the faithful and queue up to wait for future volumes, even if Moran has to self-publish them.	2003-01-28
1249811:US	53084041	R2D3EM026K28IF	0449224783	977054883	The Turquoise Lament	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Interest male angst	Had Travis McGee been in a science fiction novel, we would have had books like THE PHILOSOPHY OF MCGEE, similar to THE NOTEBOOKS OF LAZARUS LONG, dedicated to the wit and wisdom of this, MacDonald's best known and best loved character.  Perhaps it is for the best.  While not quite given to epigrams as Heinlein, MacDonald definitely had a consistent vision of who this latter day Don Quixote was.  Long before Robert Parker investigated male angst in the Spenser books, MacDonald had mined the entire territory.<br />  In The Turquoise Lament, McGee must face doubt, guilt, and faith as the grown daughter of a deceased salvage friend is afraid that her newlywed husband is attempting to kill her.  Culminating in a fight scene with a cable car that today's Hollywood would go nuts for--in fact, that gets me to wondering why we have never seen McGee on film.  Maybe we have, and I just don't know about it?  Sure, some of the dialogue might not work on the screen, but the mystery, adventure, and spectacular fights would surely fit today's current vehicles for male stars.  Today's directors would probably make a mish-mash of it, though; MacDonald probably better fits a director like Hitchcock than Paul Rudhoven or James Cameron.	2003-01-28
1250069:US	53084041	R1L147BQDIH6UL	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating thesis; needs to be updated NOW!	I've never really been a TV addict.  Oh, I've watched plenty of television fare in my time, but I've always been more interested in comics and books, I think, because of their permanence.  TV, until the advent of the videocassette recorder, had been extremely ephemeral.<br />  The ephemeral nature of TV, which continues even today because of its incredible volume and prevalence in society, is the basic tenet of Postman's argument here.  By its very nature, Postman says, TV is incapable of presenting true public discourse, which relies on arguments that don't necessarily have the entertainment quotient necessary for the medium.  The rest of the book expounds on this, looking at the past history of public discourse in America up to the time this book was written, which was ten years ago.  In the last ten years, TV's influence on public policy has even increased, and it would be interesting to see what Postman has to say about it now.	2003-01-28
1250144:US	53084041	R112OLQDRMN1JX	0140016015	945600322	The Man with Two Left Feet and Other Stories	Books	4	5	7	N	N	More from Wodehouse's fantasy world	Another collection of Wodehouse stories, only one of which (&quot;Extricating Young Gussie&quot;) is a Bertie Wooster story.  Reading these stories at the same time as the first volume of Theodore Sturgeon's complete short stories constantly had me drawing comparisons between the two writers. Wodehouse never wrote fantasy *per se* (that is, Bertie Wooster never encountered a genie or a god in his garden), but in truth his stories were always fantastical.  As commentators have said, the idyllic world of young men in spats and authoritative aunts was a figment of Wodehouse's imagination, and never existed at any time in England.  I don't think Wodehouse would have disagreed; he knew the power of fantasy.  In this volume, he tells one story (&quot;The Mixer&quot;) from the point of view of a dog, and one of his habits was to read the entire Shakespeare's collected works every year, and Willy wasn't a stranger to fantasy, either.	2003-01-28
1250172:US	53084041	R1MAZQU1FBT9SZ	0812555171	647047632	Expiration Date	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best entertainment money can buy!	Tim Powers is one of the reasons that I had so much trouble in college. It was his ON STRANGER TIDES that distracted me from at least a complete day of classes.  I remember reading ON STRANGER TIDES quite vividly, spending an 8 hour stretch curled up in a chair in the graduate library of the University of Texas, vicariously living the life of a pirate. Most of Powers' other novels have had the same hold on me, with the possible exception of THE STRESS OF HER REGARD, which I found somewhat slow and dull.<br />  I'm happy to say that EXPIRATION DATE is much more like ON STRANGER TIDES and THE ANUBIS GATES.  Powers' trick of the trade is the incorporation of historical figures in wildly fantastical yet internally plausible plots.  When this works, the reader learns something about the period and personalities while also being entertained.  When Powers is at his best, the reader may think some of the fantastic parts *are* history.<br />  What if ghosts lingered on, and could be &quot;attracted&quot; by conundrums and disorder, could be absorbed by the living who are then &quot;revitalized&quot;? What if certain people's ghosts were stronger--people like Harry Houdini and Thomas Edison, who knew that their ghosts would be desired by the greedy living?  These are Powers' concepts and he plays them perfectly, establishing the rules as he establishes the characters, always remaining consistent within his world.  What Powers has done here is invent his own system of magic, as if he were writing a new role-playing system, then working within those rules as he role plays the characters toward the plot conclusion.<br />  Aside from the mechanics, Powers' strength also lies within his character portraits.  In this long novel he handles at least five major protagonists and a dozen supporting cast, each a well-drawn individual. If there is anything of fault in EXPIRATION DATE, it is the lack of anything more than an incredibly entertaining, fun story.  But is that a lack or just Powers' entire intention?  In any case, if you want a piece of entertainment that doesn't treat you like a seven-year-old, you can't do any better than Powers or EXPIRATION DATE.t Powers' entire intention?  In any case, if you want a piece of entertainment that doesn't treat you like a seven-year-old, you can't do any better than Powers or EXPIRATION DATE.	2003-01-28
1250543:US	53084041	R285IZULKBGV1	067973337X	311308958	The Beak of the Finch: A Story of Evolution in Our Time	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The proof of evolution happening right in front of us	The first third of this book, describing the research of Peter and Rosemary Grant on the &quot;Darwin's Finches&quot; on the island of Daphne Major, is well worthy of the Pulizer Prize that this book earned. The Grants, by cataloguing every finch (including beak measurements in three dimensions, as well as wing-span and weight) on the small island, were able to show the world that natural selection can indeed by seen in our lifetimes and proven scientifically through hypotheses and validation. It is a major achievement in evolutionary studies and deserves to be more widely known. Weiner continues his book beyond the Grant's research, describing the work of evolutionary biologists who are attempting to make the next breakthrough as well-- to show a new species being born, a true &quot;origin&quot; of species--is not quite as logical or well-presented, likely caused by the myriad different ways in which today's scientists are attempting to make this discovery. In the end, Weiner pulls his theme together, and brings back how the Grants, their research assistants and many associates continue to build upon their earlier work with new techniques, and what they may be able to tell the world next.<br />This book had an additional bonus for us--half of the drawings included in the book were done by the youngest of the Grants' two daughters, Thalia, who happened to be the wife of our tour group leader, Greg Estes, and was able to join us on our trip. A natural birder, and an expert on the Galapagos since she had been coming to the islands since she was five, Thalia and Greg are now working on several projects involving the Galapagos islands, their history and their fauna. Weiner's book calls out for a sequel in a few years, and I wouldn't be surprised if Thalia's name isn't associated with it in some way.	2003-01-27
1250698:US	53084041	R3D0LGEVFZ0YKN	0060924152	174198300	They All Laughed... From Light Bulbs to Lasers: The Fascinating Stories Behind the Great Inventions That Have Changed Our Lives	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting trivia	I found this book while browsing the shelves of Half-Price Books in Bellevue.  What I was looking for was some light, entertaining non-fiction--something I could read a chapter or essay of and then put down.  I had been having trouble maintaining my concentration on a single book for very long, possibly because my work life had been so erratic recently that I was having trouble slowing my mind down to focus on any one thing.  This book filled the bill perfectly.<br />  Basically a series of essays by Flatow, host of Talk of the Nation: Science Fridays and former NPR correspondent, in which he examines basic inventions that we&iacute;ve grown to accept as necessities from light bulbs to lasers.  Oftentimes what we&iacute;ve come to know as &quot;the story&quot; of the invention, like Benjamin Franklin&iacute;s kite experiment, is but a brief moment in the chain of events that led to the mass production or use of the object or phenomena.  Flatow makes a wonderful argument that more than the common wisdom &quot;inventor&quot; should be credited with the discovery, while never belittling the genius of creation.<br />  The tone is never dry, and the subjects--blenders, televisions, telephones, Velcro, Teflon, nylon, etc.--are stuff from everyday life. At the least, the book provides some interesting trivia on applied science.	2003-01-27
1250815:US	53084041	RI1DBLFAJJOCI	0864427611	318947574	Lonely Planet Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Indispensable	A true guidebook from our favorite travel publisher, we ended up using this book more for its information about Ecuador and its capital city, Quito, than we did for the information on the islands. While I doubt that anyone actually reads a travel guidebook from front to back, what we do like to do with the Lonely Planet guides is to concentrate on the two text sections called &quot;Facts about the Country&quot; and &quot;Facts for the Visitor.&quot; These sections help travelers gain some insight into the place they are about to visit, including cultural clues (for example, it is generally not acceptable to wear shorts in Latin American cities, even if you are on vacation) and suggestions for places to go and things to see.<br />Make sure you get the most recent edition of the guidebook if you plan to use the restaurant recommendations.	2003-01-27
1250864:US	53084041	R1JM4LZCIAUX41	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mystery, with occasional fantasy and science fiction	Starting from the beginning, Gun, with Occasional Music is ostensibly a detective story in the traditional of Raymond Chandler. That short description is not quite apt, though--it's like saying Beck or Oasis is pop music in the tradition of the Beatles. There are some striking similarities in structure or theme, but the frills are quite different. Lethem's Los Angeles is filled with the products of evolution therapy-- animals that walk on two legs and mostly fill the menial roles (akin to Cordwainer Smith's Instrumentality of Mankind) and babyheads, children that have been treated to have adult mental abilities while their bodies still are those of their age. Drugs are legal, available from corner \\"makers\\", who can mix your preferred blend like today's tobacconist, from substances called Avoidol, Relaxol, Acceptol, Believol, and, especially, Addictol. People carry around \\"karma\\" cards, that contain a collection of points, earned by doing good deeds, and subtracted from when caught in a crime including being rude. Instead of CNN, there's the music news, where one tries to understand if something bad has occurred based on the amount of bassoons or bass in the orchestra. Newspapers are collections of uncaptioned pictures. And people, unless police or licensed private investigators, find it the ultimate in rudeness to ask or be asked a question. Conrad Metcalf may sound like Sam Spade, but the world in which he tries to exist is not conducive to his anti-establishment position.<br />The murder that Conrad attempts to solve is fairly straightforward, although Lethem does throw in a few really nice twists that fit with his world and the characters. For all its outre ideas, Lethem keeps the world consistent, as if he had thought while writing it, \\"What would a hard-boiled detective do if found in this situation?\\" The result is clean, crisp, often incredibly funny, and yet the ending is as tough as these novels come, with an additional bonus of an ending moral. Separately, Lethem's ideas are nothing new in science fiction. Together, and in a noir style, they make a fresh and witty adventure.<br />I'm sorry that I took so long to turn to Lethem, and you can be assured that the other books will not linger long on my to-be-read shelf.Lethem's ideas are nothing new in science fiction. Together, and in a noir style, they make a fresh and witty adventure.<br />I'm sorry that I took so long to turn to Lethem, and you can be assured that the other books will not linger long on my to-be-read shelf.	2003-01-27
1251033:US	53084041	R2BF8Z9PA668M1	031209423X	810078304	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Tenth Annual Collection	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent overview of the field	I read this collection over the space of four years, picking it up off and on. It was from no fault of the collection's, just my weird reading habits. In retrospect, it was probably Utley's story that had me stymied for so long. As normal, I disagree with Dozois' choices about 25%, 50% I could take or leave, and think the remaining 25% golden. This anthology series is one, however, that I would hate to do without, even given those odds.<br />  *  Greg Egan, \\"Dust\\" -- The thing I like about Egan is that he writes science fiction similar to the kind I try to write--philosophical yet grounded in reality. It's not hard SF, yet it's not so wacko or adventure-based that it loses its message. This story is a nice mixture of the introspection of AI and cloning, the nature of self and reality.<br />  * Terry Bisson, \\"Two Guys from the Future\\" -- Bisson's always good for these light, but excellently done, clever stories. In this one he plays fast and loose with time travel and art.<br />  * Nancy Kress, \\"The Mountain to Mohammed\\" -- Kress continues her raid on the politics and issues of our time, this one taking a long view on the escalation of malpractice insurance and existing medical conditions. Her future is bleak, but there's a neat and clever ray of hope.<br />  * Ian Watson, \\"The Coming of Vertummus\\" -- Wow! What a ride. Watson here pulls out all the stops, doing a tiny version of what Robert Anton Wilson has made his life work: the very question of is history true, can it be trusted. But he goes beyond that and also delves into the question of trusting the mind after drugs. The ending is the only weak spot, petering out a bit to show the character's state, but all in all, great fun.<br />  * Robert Silverberg, \\"A Long Night's Vigil at the Temple\\" -- I don't care for the majority of Silverberg stories--they seem to go on forever with very little interesting things happening. This one is like a deep dive into the mind of a priest, the concept had promise, but the execution was boring.<br />  * Arthur C. Clarke, \\"The Hammer of God\\" -- I don't read that much hard SF--I never read much of it in the past either--but Clarke has always had a way of bringing me into a good nuts and bolt story, and it's nice to see that he hasn't lost his touch. Basically a study of a possible asteroid collision with the Earth, but also some nice jabs at politics and religion.<br />  * Ian R. McLeod, \\"Grownups\\" -- Kind of unsettling, in the \\"Bloodchild\\" soft of way, but not as ultimately affecting because it had no tie to our experience--some kind of connection to our sexual lives, not necessarily an explanation, but inferences beyond the obvious.<br />  * Joe Haldeman, \\"Graves\\" -- Seems like I've read this one before, possibly in Datlow's Annual? In any case, not bad, but nothing to give an award to either. Decent use of personal knowledge and experience with a supernatural slant.<br />  * Steven Utley, \\"The Glowing Cloud\\" -- This was way long for the subject, which seemed to me to be old hat anyway--that is, the ethics of changing the past. Didn't care for it at all.<br />  * Tom Maddox, \\"Gravity's Angel\\" -- Dated now that the collider was killed in Congress, but you don't have to let that affect what is basically a study in the attitudes of scientists rather than the usual focus in science fiction on the science itself. A little long for the subject, but well done.<br />  * Maureen F. McHugh, \\"Protection\\" -- I really liked this story--great setup, great characters, great idea. But it lacked one thing: a great ending. Still, this could be the basis for a great novel, which is likely the point here.<br />  * Neal Barrett, Jr., \\"The Last Cardinal Bird in Tennessee\\" -- Interesting structure--it's told as a script to a play--but the subject is a little worn (future world in which everything's just gone downhill). As a deviant block off of Tennessee Williams, it's amusing, but I wouldn't care for another go.<br />  * Robert Reed, \\"Birth Day\\" -- Simple little\\"AIs take over the world\\" story, but done with wit and feeling. Reed has a good touch, almost similar to James Morrow on a good day. Enjoyed this one.<br />  * Pat Cadigan, \\"Naming Names\\" -- A gem from Cadigan, and I'd say that even if I wasn't biased. This one runs from the old premise that everyone has a secret name that gives you power over them, and turns some interesting corners.<br />  * Jonathan Lethem and Lukas Jaeger, \\"The Elvis National Theater of Okinawa\\" -- Short, simple, culturally on-line and hip. Didn't care for it much but I don't do hip so well anymore.<br />  * Bradley Denton, \\"The Territory\\" -- Tried to like this, an alternate history of the civil war with Sam Clemens (Mark Twain) as the main character, but I don't care for the time period, and Denton didn't provide enough oomph this time to carry me. Dozed off several times when reading this.<br />  * Ian McDonald, \\"The Best and the Rest of James Joyce\\" -- Several alternate histories featuring the old dubliner himself. Interesting, but I'm sure that I missed a lot of the cleverness by not being a Joyce-a-phile.<br />  * Kate Wilhelm, \\"Naming the Flowers\\" -- A strong story from Wilhelm about a strange child and a man with a desire to be more than just a success. I've never read Wilhelm's novels, but I rarely dislike her short stories, and this one is one of the best. Poignant and rewarding.<br />  * Ian R. MacLeod, \\"Snodgrass\\" -- This time an alternate history story in which Stu Sutcliffe replaces John Lennon in the Beatles. 1992 was a year for alternate history stories, I guess. I liked this one a lot; MacLeod, I think, took a chance on his portrayal of the down-and-out Lennon, and I sense it was a good one.<br />  * Kathe Koja, \\"By the Mirror of My Youth\\" -- A twisty story by Koja. I would have liked it, I think, except that she spent way too much time being stylistic rather than just getting on with the story.<br />* Frederick Pohl, \\"Outnumbering the Dead\\" -- Great story from the grandmaster. In this tale of a mortal among immortals, Pohl doesn't necessarily make a point, but carefully shows us the humanity of one brave individual.le \\"AIs take over the world\\" story, but done with wit and feeling. Reed has a good touch, almost similar to James Morrow on a good day. Enjoyed this one.<BR>    * Pat Cadigan, \\"Naming Names\\" -- A gem from Cadigan, and I'd say that even if I wasn't biased. This one runs from the old premise that everyone has a secret name that gives you power over them, and turns some interesting corners.<BR>    * Jonathan Lethem and Lukas Jaeger, \\"The Elvis National Theater of Okinawa\\" -- Short, simple, culturally on-line and hip. Didn't care for it much but I don't do hip so well anymore.<BR>    * Bradley Denton, \\"The Territory\\" -- Tried to like this, an alternate history of the civil war with Sam Clemens (Mark Twain) as the main character, but I don't care for the time period, and Denton didn't provide enough oomph this time to carry me. Dozed off several times when reading this.<BR>    * Ian McDonald, \\"The Best and the Rest of James Joyce\\" -- Several alternate histories featuring the old dubliner himself. Interesting, but I'm sure that I missed a lot of the cleverness by not being a Joyce-a-phile.<BR>    * Kate Wilhelm, \\"Naming the Flowers\\" -- A strong story from Wilhelm about a strange child and a man with a desire to be more than just a success. I've never read Wilhelm's novels, but I rarely dislike her short stories, and this one is one of the best. Poignant and rewarding.<BR>    * Ian R. MacLeod, \\"Snodgrass\\" -- This time an alternate history story in which Stu Sutcliffe replaces John Lennon in the Beatles. 1992 was a year for alternate history stories, I guess. I liked this one a lot; MacLeod, I think, took a chance on his portrayal of the down-and-out Lennon, and I sense it was a good one.<BR>    * Kathe Koja, \\"By the Mirror of My Youth\\" -- A twisty story by Koja. I would have liked it, I think, except that she spent way too much time being stylistic rather than just getting on with the story.<BR>* Frederick Pohl, \\"Outnumbering the Dead\\" -- Great story from the grandmaster.In this tale of a mortal among immortals, Pohl doesn't necessarily make a point, but carefully shows us the humanity of one brave individual.	2003-01-27
1251305:US	53084041	R21E5W482D2NM9	0140178929	475704212	Nude Men: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Strangely charming, even with the awkward subject	This was one title that was a joy to ask bookstore clerks for: \\"Do you have Nude Men?\\" I'm reminded of the Monty Python skit where the customer keeps asking for books by Charles Dickens--the one with two \\"k\\"s. The looks that the clerks give you at such a question is priceless.<br />Terrorizing bookstore clerks aside, Nude Men is worthy of attention for all that lies within its covers as well. I first heard about this book by following a thread on rec.arts.books about novels of humor. (This is a reoccurring thread on r.a.b that you can bet on to pop up at least once a year.) The classics (Wodehouse, Jerome K. Jerome, Twain) always get mentioned, but I follow the thread for those one or two books that no one's ever heard of before. In this case, I was especially intrigued by the title and the poster's description of the plot as concerning a fellow who is seduced by an eleven-year-old girl. I thought, \\"If someone can make this funny, it's got to be good.\\"<br />Good it is, although funny, it should be noted, is not the main thrust of this book. Yes, there's quite a bit of humor, unexpected and sometimes audacious, as in the seduction scene, but it is the characters--the self-absorbed main character, Jeremy Acidophilus; Lady Henrietta, the painter he thinks he is in love with; her daughter, the precocious nymphet; and his ultra-conservative girlfriend, Charlotte--and their interactions, sometimes funny, sometimes painful, and one whopper of a strange plot that continually surprises, that mark this book as different. It is, of course, a first novel. I say of course because only beginners challenge the status quo of acceptable practice and subjects quite as strongly as this. Even though Nabokov wrote a classic on the subject, this is one area that still is taboo, especially treated as anything other than sexual abuse. While I might find it hard to recommend this novel for its humor potential alone, as a work both strange and comical, it is daring and magical.	2003-01-27
1251383:US	53084041	R2SYBMJV16IJAC	0385304005	86596677	What's Going on Here?	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Revealing things that you never suspected	I love annotations.  I think it's due to an innate curiosity about why things are the way they are--the classic child&iacute;s question, and I never got over asking it.  I&iacute;m surprised that annotated editions aren&iacute;t more popular--think of it as a Cliff's Notes side-by-side edition.  While not all books benefit from annotations, certain texts these day require them for all but the experts.  The English language has changed substantially since Chaucer and Shakespeare&iacute;s day, and annotations in these texts often serve as an open dictionary.  In Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes series, the annotations can explain aspects of Victorian society that modern readers aren't aware of.<br />  The folks at Harper's Magazine have taken the idea of annotations one step farther.  Like their famous Harper's Index, which takes the idea of rating items to an extreme, thus illustrating common misperceptions, Harper's annotations attempt to explain the significance and history of different items by examining both the function and form.  Deconstructing a complex item can be educational and intriguing, such as how to read a birth or death certificate; how a Louisville Slugger is made and its place in the industry; and how a picture of John Gotti can tell you about the man and the trial.<br />  I just thought of a new method of annotations that is currently taking off, and that is, of course, the World Wide Web.  With its ability to \\"link\\" to other sites within its text, it is a perfect example of an annotation.  The only thing better would be to search for more information based on any word within a document, not just simply the ones that authors have built links into.	2003-01-27
1251463:US	53084041	R31FNZNDPOYXW7	1882968212	677782021	Quin's Shanghai Circus	Books	4	16	16	N	N	The best book you've never heard about	Whittemore's name kept popping up for me--Rick Kleffel's mentioned him on one listserv, he was mentioned on Rondua, someone else sent me a note about him--so I went on a fact-finding mission, searching the Internet for information about this elusive author. There wasn't much, but one of the hits was the first issue of a newsletter from the Council for Literature of the Fantastic in an article by Jeff VanderMeer on nine neglected works. This was part one of the article, with only five authors covered (Paul Auster, Angela Carter, Nick Cave, Steve Erickson, and Edward Whittemore). VanderMeer concentrates on Whittemore's four-novel suite, &quot;The Sinai Tapestry,&quot; and only briefly mentions Quin's Shanghai Circus, his first novel. It sounded like my type of thing, though, so I went on a used book search and had some luck, finding both Quin's and two novels of the suite. Like normal, I start an author from his first work.<br />Wow. This is certainly a different kind of novel. It has an aura of its time (early 70s), but it is also unique enough to be timeless. To explain it basically, it is a novel of intertwining lives--Quin is a thirty-something American orphan who is approached in a bar by a very strange fellow who has a clue to his parents' identities. This leads Quin to Japan, accompanied by Big Gobi, a large mentally challenged man who also has something to do with Quin's parentage. They meet Father Lamereaux, and start following the thread of the story that incorporates a secret agent network that was responsible for saving untold lives in World War II by affecting Sino-Russo-Nippo relations. As the stories unfold, following one character after another, we are enmeshed in how their lives affected each other, sometimes with two or three degrees of separation. Lastly, there's one character who's not what he seems--in my faux writing terms, a third-person unreliable.<br />Fantastic literature? In both senses. I was amazed at the complexity of the &quot;plot&quot; (the story, because it is not linear, sometimes defies English 101 terms), and surprised by some of the elements, sometimes strange and grotesque. It's not truly horrific, even though some parts verge on the Clive Barker scale. At one point, the novel recounts how the last performance of the titular circus occurs, in which the performers are detached one by one, and then the ravenous beasts are let loose to feed on the audience. My stomach churned several times during those pages, and I don't think it was my stomach flu causing it to do so. One of the characters is a psychopath who is entirely too believable, making certain sections recall Thomas Harris more than C.S. Lewis. If &quot;The Sinai Tapestry&quot; suite is as good as this novel, Whittemore is definitely unjustly neglected, and should be reprinted.(the story, because it is not linear, sometimes defies English 101 terms), and surprised by some of the elements, sometimes strange and grotesque. It's not truly horrific, even though some parts verge on the Clive Barker scale. At one point, the novel recounts how the last performance of the titular circus occurs, in which the performers are detached one by one, and then the ravenous beasts are let loose to feed on the audience. My stomach churned several times during those pages, and I don't think it was my stomach flu causing it to do so. One of the characters is a psychopath who is entirely too believable, making certain sections recall Thomas Harris more than C.S. Lewis. If &quot;The Sinai Tapestry&quot; suite is as good as this novel, Whittemore is definitely unjustly neglected, and should be reprinted.	2003-01-27
1251647:US	53084041	R1IIHQYJN4W8CW	067976268X	765856776	Anything Considered: A Novel	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Better at non-fiction, but interesting just the same	Having thoroughly enjoyed Peter Mayle's best-selling non-fictional (mostly) account of life in Rural France (A Life in Provence), I long meant to give his fiction a try. I'm not a real dog-lover, so A Dog's Life didn't intrigue me, and the jacket copy for Hotel Pastis didn't lend it to immediate reading, either. But the cover for Anything Considered, showing a cast of characters straight out of a CLUE game, and the premise--an Englishman in France, desperate for a job, places an advert in the international paper saying that he was looking for employment and &quot;anything considered&quot;--sounded so close to a Wodehousian experience, that I could not resist it. Even the title was similar to Wodehouse.<br />Unfortunately, while comic and filled with mistaken identities and misunderstood intentions, Mayle's touch with the material is quite different. I enjoyed the novel, but there's something missing to it, as if Mayle had all the ingredients at his fingertips, but didn't turn the temperature on the oven up high enough. There's no faulting his craftsmanship--the words flow smoothly enough, and nothing is so jarring as to ruin the plot--but the art seems forced, rather than organic.<br />Bennett is the Englishman who is desperate for anything, who finds himself hired by a fellow who simply wants him to live in the style to which Bennett has become accustomed, with the slight deviation of returning a different name than his own when asked. He goes to Monaco, using this man's credit cards, living in this man's apartment, basically enjoying the life of Riley. But there's trouble lurking, something to do with the truffle market and the Mafia. It's all grand fun, but Mayle never quite convinces the reader that his world is an innocuous one, and so the reader keeps expecting the worst to happen, rather than just another close shave.<br />Rereading the above, it sounds like I hated the novel, which I did not. In fact, I bought Hotel Pastis based on my impression of this book. I just had expected more from Mayle, and was letdown by my expectations, not by his actual book.. I just had expected more from Mayle, and was letdown by my expectations, not by his actual book.	2003-01-27
1251713:US	53084041	R2WQTCQXQT7H50	9997528212	74453271	A Question of Upbringing	Books	2	7	13	N	N	The start of the Dance	I had never heard of Powell, or his twelve book symphony, until a discussion about the mechanics of the Alexandria Digital Library brought him to light. Although the recommender hadn't listed Powell as something I'd care for, one of the participants in the discussion who knew of First Impressions, thought it might be something up my alley. Based on this first book, I'm afraid that the machine wins.<br />A Question of Upbringing introduces you to the main characters of Powell's magnum opus: the narrator, Jenkins, who one never really gets a handle on because he spends more time describing the others than ever going on about himself; Templar, the womanizer and lay-about; Stringham, privileged and haughty; and Widmerpool, the odd man out, with drive and ambition, but no class. One meets them at boarding school and follows them through college in this first volume, but what happens is never as important as what one thinks is happening. As a narrator, Jenkins is obtuse to the point of frustration, never quite describing the situation, but using plenty of words to not do so. Every time I thought something was going to get interesting, the novel would shift to some other scene.<br />The blurb writers compare Powell to Proust, but I can safely say that A Question of Upbringing is much more interesting than The Remembrance of Things Past. A &quot;comic masterpiece,&quot; though? Not in this first volume. The book I have has the next two in the sequence, and I will likely go ahead and give them a try, but based on the first soiree, I must dance to some other fiddler.	2003-01-27
1251849:US	53084041	R1OLK0CKTM58WB	089886688X	527951433	The Galapagos Islands: The Essential Handbook for Exploring, Enjoying and Understanding Darwin's Enchanted Islands	Books	3	43	43	N	N	More of a checklist than an explication	The subtitle gives you an indication that this is not exactly a reading experience, but a guidebook during your actually sojourn. While it contains some useful pre-trip information, Stephenson concentrates on detailing the flora and fauna that are on each island, and their approximate locations, in a format that is almost like a checklist (or, for the birders out there, a lifelist). Stephenson is knowledgeable, and her information accurate as far as I can tell, but there's really no savoir faire here, and there's the rub. If I had only this to base my foreknowledge of the islands, I'm not so sure I'd be so excited about going. Luckily, there's other books that are better at capturing the uniqueness of the islands and their place in history and our world today.	2003-01-26
1251868:US	53084041	R31SYQZEFD7CUO	0804117683	79568500	Moo	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Much needed skewering of heartland academia	A couple of years ago Jill and I played a game in which we would take turns recommending a book for the other to read out of our respective libraries. We decided to restart this tradition recently, finding that it was a good starting point for discussion of not only books, but also concepts that were conveyed by the books. In a sense, it is not dissimilar to watching a movie or television show together--maybe we could call it our own personal Oprah's Book Club?<br />Jill got to pick the opening salvo, and handed me Jane Smiley's MOO. I love comedy, and books that convey humor are hard to write and hard to find as a reader. After you've exhausted P.G. Wodehouse, Thorne Smith, and James Branch Cabell, where do you go? It is always a pleasure to find another book in which an author goes out on a limb for comedy, and even if it doesn't entirely succeed, it often makes for great reading. Smiley, a past winner of the Pulitzer Prize, and quickly making a name for herself for deeply serious books, has written a winner in MOO. The comedy here is a strange mixture of satire, situation, and salaciousness, all tied together by a marvelous craftswoman who can switch viewpoints at the turn of a page and juggle five plotlines at one time.<br />MOO is set in a mythical midwestern University, a stereotypical Agriculture and Engineering college that are the mainstays of the feed and breed states. In this college, you have the secretary to the Provost who actually runs the college, only passing on letters or memos that she decides the Provost should see; the Assistant English professor, hoping to make tenure, making the rounds of the Eastern writing workshops and trying desperately to make the requisite number of publications; the new foreign language instructor, a beautiful, dark woman who sometimes claims Costa Rican heritage although she was born and raised in Los Angeles; the boy fresh from the farm, who is happy to find a work-study assignment as the caretaker for an experiment to see how large a pig can grow; a gaggle of girls, gathered together by the vagaries of the University housing office as roommates in the subsidized dorm; and Chairman X and his companion, who most people mistake as his wife since they have lived together for over 20 years and have two children. There's more, though: the researcher who loves the song-and-dance of getting funding, but is anxious when it comes to actually performing; his live-in, an adjunct instructor at the Vet school (located a few miles from the main campus) in charge of the horse herd; the local farmer who's got the invention in his barn that will revolutionize agriculture, that is as long as he can keep it from Big Ag and the Government spies; and the Provost's brother, who has decided that it is time for him to marry, so he picks a likely candidate from among the women at the local church. Although the book is humorous, and sometimes the characters are too, the reality of the situation is closer to home than many of your television situation comedies. Smiley has an incredible way of opening up the characters to you, showing their hopes and fears and foibles, that make them seem like real people.<br />Academics who don't mind being the center of the joke and former students who can remember their college days fondly should both find MOO enjoyable and rememberable. Having gone to a similar small University myself (Colorado State), it was like visiting the old stomping grounds where the names had been changed to protect the guilty. Jill liked this book enough that she bought more by Smiley--and I suspect that one of these will be a future choice of hers for me to read.o see how large a pig can grow; a gaggle of girls, gathered together by the vagaries of the University housing office as roommates in the subsidized dorm; and Chairman X and his companion, who most people mistake as his wife since they have lived together for over 20 years and have two children. There's more, though: the researcher who loves the song-and-dance of getting funding, but is anxious when it comes to actually performing; his live-in, an adjunct instructor at the Vet school (located a few miles from the main campus) in charge of the horse herd; the local farmer who's got the invention in his barn that will revolutionize agriculture, that is as long as he can keep it from Big Ag and the Government spies; and the Provost's brother, who has decided that it is time for him to marry, so he picks a likely candidate from among the women at the local church. Although the book is humorous, and sometimes the characters are too, the reality of the situation is closer to home than many of your television situation comedies. Smiley has an incredible way of opening up the characters to you, showing their hopes and fears and foibles, that make them seem like real people.<br />Academics who don't mind being the center of the joke and former students who can remember their college days fondly should both find MOO enjoyable and rememberable. Having gone to a similar small University myself (Colorado State), it was like visiting the old stomping grounds where the names had been changed to protect the guilty. Jill liked this book enough that she bought more by Smiley--and I suspect that one of these will be a future choice of hers for me to read.	2003-01-26
1251884:US	53084041	R24K32KQQ6OUMY	0553237217	23539507	The Doorbell Rang (Nero Wolfe)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Looking tough at the FBI	Oftentimes the Nero Wolfe books are in some never-never time. You know it's sometime after the second World War, but placing it in the fifties or sixties or seventies can be tough. Except when Stout decides to take on what later became one of his favorite subjects, the Federal Bureau of Investigation.<br />In The Doorbell Rang, Stout gets his jabs in at the &quot;privileged&quot; position of the federal investigator, while raising issues many Americans had at the time about a &quot;secret police&quot; which reported, supposedly, only to the president. A true immigrant, Wolfe has more of a feeling for what democracy is and how precious an item it is, and works harder to defend it than the &quot;real&quot; Americans. As always, Stout's prose is clean and crisp, and this is the same book that you expect from him.	2003-01-26
1251891:US	53084041	R19I9WB3MUE9Y9	0140158502	938486140	The Cornish Trilogy: The Rebel Angels; What's Bred in the Bone; The Lyre of Orpheus	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Impossible to resist!	After being so thoroughly delighted with Davies' Deptford trilogy, I immediately purchased this collection (it was a choice between the Cornish and the Salterton trilogy, and the Cornish won because (1) Dwight Brown recommended it and (2) the store had it). Like the Deptford trilogy, the Cornish trilogy revolves around a single character, but it works its way through the lives of many others as well.<br />In a sense, The Rebel Angels is two novellas that are split into the same number of chapters that you bounce between. &quot;Second Paradise&quot; is the story of Maria Theotoky, a PhD candidate studying the works of Rabelais, who finds herself drawn into the life of returned professor turned monk, John Parlabane. But the real issue is a secret manuscript that was purchased by the recently deceased Francis Cornish, whom her advisor, as one-third executor of Cornish's estate, has promised to her as the substance for her doctorate. Unfortunately, the manuscript has vanished. &quot;The New Aubrey&quot; is told from the point of view of Professor the Reverend Simon Darcourt, another third of the multi-headed Cornish executors, who is also a professor's of Maria's and an old friend of Parlabane's. Darcourt has decided to work on a biography of the university professors in the style of Aubrey, and thinks he has plenty to work with in Clem Hollier (Maria's advisor), Parlabane, and the last third of the executors, Urky McVarish. Confused? You won't be, because Davies is a master at handling the many threads of the story, and nothing is ever mis-placed. As in the Deptford trilogy, nothing &quot;fantastic&quot; occurs, although the secret manuscript is definitely a fictional device and not something that exists in our world. Maria's mother, however, is of the old-world gypsies, and there's a few scenes in which she shows Hollier some gypsy &quot;magic&quot; and fortune-telling, but in each of these cases, one can suppose that nothing extra-worldly is occurring. And, yes, there is a tie between The Rebel Angels and the Deptford books--Parlabane and Hollier are said to have attended school with David Staunton, the subject of The Manticore.<br />The second book, What's Bred in the Bone, definately throws in the fantastic. After a prologue in which the characters from The Rebel Angels, who have formed a trust fund for the use of Francis Cornish's fortune to promote art, talk about the biography that Darcourt is trying to write of Cornish. From this, two angels (the Lesser Zadkiel, Angel of Biography, and his brother, the Daimon Maimas, Cornish's personal fiend), take over to tell the story of Cornish from his beginning as scion of the richest family in town, through his introduction to art by a singular book, his religious duology by his Catholic great-aunt and Protestant housekeeper, the art instruction by combining what he learned in the book with the subjects of the local morgue. Then it's off to boy's school in which he becomes a pupil of Dunstan Ramsay (the Fifth Business from the book of that name) for a time, then gets drawn into his father's business as an English spy. All along it is art that imbues him (what is bred in the bone, as the title says), that strengthens him, and, in the end, that sustains him.<br />The final book picks up where the first book left off, with the Cornish Trust board of directors, Hollier, Darcourt, Maria, Arthur Cornish, and Geraint Powell, deciding to stage a reconstructed opera by one of the university students, even though there is no libretto and the student is a doctoral candidate who has never attempted something of this magnitude before. The opera, an unfinished piece by E.T.A. Hoffman, is Arthur, or The Magnanimous Cuckold, an attempt to put the story of King Arthur as a true opera (rather than the singing in a story of Camelot). The student, Schnak, they soon discover is a belligerent and odiferous genius, but nothing compared to the special advisor that is brought in from Sweden, Dr. Gunilla Dahl-Soot. Darcourt, meanwhile, is frustrated because he is having little luck completing the biography of Francis Cornish, and now is tagged to write a libretto for this opera. Everything comes together, although never in quite the way you expect it to, which is the beauty of Davies' novels.<br />To say that I like Robertson Davies would be an understatement. He has, as I've said to Jill, become an obsession. I have purchased the Salterton trilogy, which is begging from the shelf to be read, and I expect that you will see mention of it in the next installment. I am, however, saddened. Davies died about six years ago, and I know the limits of my obsession as those few books that I have yet to read. One side of me says to savor the moment, the opportunity to read them from a fresh perspective, while the reckless side of me is urging for me to get on with the business as I'm not getting any younger.hl-Soot. Darcourt, meanwhile, is frustrated because he is having little luck completing the biography of Francis Cornish, and now is tagged to write a libretto for this opera. Everything comes together, although never in quite the way you expect it to, which is the beauty of Davies' novels.<br />To say that I like Robertson Davies would be an understatement. He has, as I've said to Jill, become an obsession. I have purchased the Salterton trilogy, which is begging from the shelf to be read, and I expect that you will see mention of it in the next installment. I am, however, saddened. Davies died about six years ago, and I know the limits of my obsession as those few books that I have yet to read. One side of me says to savor the moment, the opportunity to read them from a fresh perspective, while the reckless side of me is urging for me to get on with the business as I'm not getting any younger.	2003-01-26
1251961:US	53084041	R1MVDXNQSZF40N	0156002108	367931854	Towing Jehovah (Harvest Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best in eschatological science fiction	James Morrow has made eschatological science fiction and fantasy his domain over the past ten years. He started with the short stories \\"Bible Stories for Adults\\", which garnered him a Nebula award, then quickly followed up with a novel in the same vein, 1990's Only Begotten Daughter, in which the second coming of God comes in the female form. His latest novel, Towing Jehovah, continues his study of modern religion with the ultimate test of faith--the Death of God.<br />Anthony Van Horne is a disgraced oil freighter Captain who lost his post after a disastrous collision with a reef in the Gulf of Mexico that spilled crude over a 20 mile stretch of Texas coastline. His ablutions prove fruitful, because it is he who the archangel Raphael chooses to helm the most important salvage operation of all time. Yes, God is dead and floating supine in tropical waters. The angels, who are dying of empathy, have carved him a tomb in the Antartic and want Van Horne to take control of his recently repaired oil freighter, find the Corpus Dei, and tow it to its icy grave.<br />Joining Van Horne is Thomas Ockham, the controversial New York priest cum physicist, personally selected by the Vatican in consultation with the archangel Gabriel to be the spiritual leader of the expedition. The Vatican has its own goal--due to the calculations of its powerful computer OMNIVAC, it has determined that due to the size of the corpse, brain death may not have fully occurred, and the faster the corpse is frozen, the better the chance that God's neurons might be saved. Along the way, Van Horne rescues Dr. Cassandra Fowler, adrift in the tropics due to a failed trip to the Galapagos Islands in a recreation of Darwin's famous voyage in the Beagle. Unbeknownst to Van Horne, Fowler is a member of a radical feminist/atheist organization and is determined to sink Van Horne's cargo instead of taking the chance that the current patriarchal system use it as proof of the gender of the creator just as feminist advances had made such inroads against the system.<br />Morrow's novel is both audacious and extremely funny. While some find his eschatological studies sacrilegious, I do not think that is his intent (beyond the obvious establishment nose-tweaking). Morrow, in true science fiction fashion, is postulating \\"What If,\\" but instead of writing about starships and aliens, Morrow examines culture and religion. For his background sources he utilizes the work of Kant, Thomas Moore, and Heigel, following the long tradition of philosophers trying to explain the ultimate mystery of creation. While Morrow's text is serious in its intent, it remains a modern novel, full of character and events, some of which may also offend gentler sensibilities. For those willing to play what if, however, Morrow has found his niche, and he continues to mine gold.advances had made such inroads against the system.<br />Morrow's novel is both audacious and extremely funny. While some find his eschatological studies sacrilegious, I do not think that is his intent (beyond the obvious establishment nose-tweaking). Morrow, in true science fiction fashion, is postulating \\"What If,\\" but instead of writing about starships and aliens, Morrow examines culture and religion. For his background sources he utilizes the work of Kant, Thomas Moore, and Heigel, following the long tradition of philosophers trying to explain the ultimate mystery of creation. While Morrow's text is serious in its intent, it remains a modern novel, full of character and events, some of which may also offend gentler sensibilities. For those willing to play what if, however, Morrow has found his niche, and he continues to mine gold.	2003-01-26
1251988:US	53084041	R1FDR7ENBDUP7B	0836204158	954005202	It's Obvious You Won't Survive By Your Wits Alone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Too close to the truth for comfort	The scary thing about Dilbert, I've just realized, is not so much that it resembles the company I work for so many times, but the fact that it must resemble more than just my company alone to account for its growing appeal. I guess in my heart of hearts I was hoping that if I ever moved to another company, I could leave the Dilbertisms behind--fat chance, it seems.<br />Dilbert is well on its way to becoming a classic comic strip. Like the ones canonized before it, it has been able to take a segment of our society (Doonesbury) or life (Calvin and Hobbes) and relieve our tension. Adams is the one writer who can actually answer the question, \\"Where do your ideas come from?\\" because he often receives what becomes next week's strip from a reader email. As long as there are companies searching for answers in a changing marketplace, Adams will likely have material. Me, I'm just glad someone is enjoying the situation.	2003-01-26
1252001:US	53084041	R3F8ZYMFSAOTC0	0930289552	93409299	Black Orchid	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting but still a journeyman work	I picked this up for three dollars at a remainder fair in Denver while I was there for Anaconism, and read it on the plane coming home. It was a whim purchase, based solely on my good impression of Gaiman from Good Omens (co-written with Terry Pratchett) and his comic series, \\"Sandman.\\" Black Orchid is a comic, and unlike \\"Sandman\\" for the most part, it is set in the superhero populated DC Universe (Batman, Swamp Thing, and the current inhabitants of the Arkham Asylum feature prominently in the story). Gaiman's treatment of the superhero genre is similar to Alan Moore's (\\"Swamp Thing,\\" \\"Watchman\\")--much grittier, much more introspective than the usual porcelain doll pip-ups engaging in the endless slugfest. You know from the beginning, as stated in the introduction by Rolling Stone writer Mikal Gilmore, that something is different: the villain captures the heroine and, instead of revealing his plans to her, he kills her. It is startling in its suddenness and its other-worldliness (at least for superhero comics). Nudity? Sex? Language? These are not taboos anymore in the comic world, but to actually *kill* a character, and in such a matter-of-fact, realistic way, that's shocking. The rest of the book (actually a collection of three comics published in series in 1990) tries to live up to that moment, and sometimes comes close, but ultimately it isn't quite satisfying. Gaiman's willingness to find the trigger makes him someone to search out.	2003-01-26
1252095:US	53084041	R7LKR1VP9ITHC	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Magical!	I had read some Robertson Davies in the past--Murther and Walking Spirits and The Papers of Samuel Marchbanks--and thought him a fine curmudgeon and a fine Canadian writer, but I had not given him much thought beyond this. I find this to my detriment now, for I remember friends who always had a copy of one or other of his novels about, and I faintly recall many recommendations in the past. So, what made me finally pick up one of these and read it? The recommendation, passed to me second-hand, by my favorite writer, Jonathan Carroll, given as one of his influences for conceiving novels with interlinking characters.<br />Fifth Business is a marvelous book, and while it doesn't have quite the same mystery or horror of Carroll, it does have an excellent style, and there is indeed a twist or two along the way to keep most any reader sated. Basically the autobiography of Dunstable Ramsay, born around the turn of the century in the small Canadian town of Deptford, Fifth Business details not only Ramsay's life, but also the life of his oldest friend, Percy \\"Boy\\" Staunton. What makes this novel so remarkable is how realistic the portrayal is, without bogging down in pages of mundane description. Over the course of the novel, one's understanding for Dunstable grows, both in positive and negative turns, and by the end, he is as an old friend of one's own.<br />Based on some of the cover blurbs, I had expected a little more magic realism, or at least an edge of the fantastic, to this book, and while it may be there, it is consistently down-played. Normally I am not one to go in for fiction without at least a feeling of the extraordinary, but Davies writing style kept me glued to the page, reading longer into the night than I would ordinarily wish during the work week. And I learned many things, including what the term hagiography refers to, and some feeling for Canada and their strange ties to Britain and the world.<br />But it is the aspect of Fifth Business itself where this book receives full credit for its recommendation. \\"Fifth Business\\" refers to, as related in the novel:<br />  \\"You don't know what this is? Well, in opera in a permanent company of the kind we keep up in Europe you must have a prima donna--always a soprano, always the heroine, often a fool; and a tenor who always plays the lover to her; and then you must have a contralto, who is a rival to the soprano, or a sorceress or something; and a basso, who is the villain or the rival or whatever threatens the tenor.<br />So far, so good. But you cannot make a plot work without another man, and he is usually a baritone, and he is called in the profession Fifth Business, because he is the odd man out, the person who has no opposite of the other sex. And you must have Fifth Business because he is the one who knows the secret of the hero's birth, or comes to the assistance of the heroine when she thinks all is lost, or keeps the hermitess in her cell, or may even be the cause of somebody's death if that is part of the plot.\\"<br />Dunstable is indeed Fifth Business, for he does know the secret of the hero's birth, and does come to the assistance of the heroine, and keeps a woman in her cell, and may even be the cause of Boy Staunton's murder. The trick is discovering who exactly is the hero, and the assistance only lasts for a short time, and being locked in a cell is not always advantageous, and who exactly did murder Boy Staunton? These and more questions are brought up in Fifth Business, some of which are answered.<br />The Manticore picks up almost where Fifth Business lets off, but quickly reverts to flashback to tell some of the same story from the point of view of Boy Staunton's son, David. David's recollection of some of the events as told by Ramsay are colored by his own life, including the fear introduced by his sister that David is not actually Boy's son, but Ramsay's. Whereas Ramsey was fifth business to Boy Staunton, David is a star in his own story, which is told bya journal that he writes to discuss with his psychotherapist.<br />It sounds dull, and at times it slows due to the conceit, but Davies has a way of interjecting interest right as you are about to put away the novel. Two-thirds into the novel and it breaks away from the psychotherapy, returns to the \\"present\\" of the trilogy, and reunites us with Ramsay and some of the other characters from Fifth Business. The problem with The Manticore is that it is the middle novel, without the refreshing newness of the opening and lacking the rush towards the climax of the concluding novel.<br />And what a rush World of Wonders is--once again, it covers some of the same ground of the two previous novels, filling in detail about magician Magnus Eisingrim (nee Paul Dempster of Deptford) that also provides additional insight into Ramsey and, in the end, Boy Staunton. Of the three novels, World of Wonders is closest to Carroll. Rather than tell the story from Magnus viewpoint, Davies switches back to Ramsay. However, the story Ramsay tells is of the biographical confessions of Magnus. This way Davies can tell the story from a new viewpoint while retaining the mysterious nature of Magnus (who is the closest to the unreliable narrator used by Carroll) to keep the secret of Boy Staunton's death until the closing minutes. Magnus' history isn't pretty, and the World of Wonders is as a carnival sideshow, full of flash but hiding a seedy underbelly. However, Magnus is not unhappy with his lot, looking back over his life, which is one of the aspects of the story that haunts Ramsay, who feels somewhat responsible (along with Staunton) for Paul Dempster's early life. The philosophical aspect of this is interesting--Davies implies that, while taking responsibility of one's actions is important, there is a statute of limitations on guilt.<br />The Deptford Trilogy is a strong suite of novels, cunningly wrought and well worth your time. I regret that I had waited this long to discover them.d by a journal that he writes to discuss with his psychotherapist.<br />It sounds dull, and at times it slows due to the conceit, but Davies has a way of interjecting interest right as you are about to put away the novel. Two-thirds into the novel and it breaks away from the psychotherapy, returns to the \\"present\\" of the trilogy, and reunites us with Ramsay and some of the other characters from Fifth Business. The problem with The Manticore is that it is the middle novel, without the refreshing newness of the opening and lacking the rush towards the climax of the concluding novel.<br />And what a rush World of Wonders is--once again, it covers some of the same ground of the two previous novels, filling in detail about magician Magnus Eisingrim (nee Paul Dempster of Deptford) that also provides additional insight into Ramsey and, in the end, Boy Staunton. Of the three novels, World of Wonders is closest to Carroll. Rather than tell the story from Magnus viewpoint, Davies switches back to Ramsay. However, the story Ramsay tells is of the biographical confessions of Magnus. This way Davies can tell the story from a new viewpoint while retaining the mysterious nature of Magnus (who is the closest to the unreliable narrator used by Carroll) to keep the secret of Boy Staunton's death until the closing minutes. Magnus' history isn't pretty, and the World of Wonders is as a carnival sideshow, full of flash but hiding a seedy underbelly. However, Magnus is not unhappy with his lot, looking back over his life, which is one of the aspects of the story that haunts Ramsay, who feels somewhat responsible (along with Staunton) for Paul Dempster's early life. The philosophical aspect of this is interesting--Davies implies that, while taking responsibility of one's actions is important, there is a statute of limitations on guilt.<br />The Deptford Trilogy is a strong suite of novels, cunningly wrought and well worth your time. I regret that I had waited this long to discover them.	2003-01-26
1252127:US	53084041	R20XRTV6BJ7VUY	0679740392	916608409	The Evolution of Useful Things: How Everyday Artifacts-From Forks and Pins to Paper Clips and Zippers-Came to be as They are	Books	3	20	20	N	N	A little dry, but worthwhile	Petroski's field is design, but his take on it is the history of design rather than the &quot;science&quot; of design as Donald Norman (of The Design of Everyday Things fame). Although their approach is different, the two men share some of the same insights into how and why objects are the way they were. But where Norman's philosophy is that an object can be designed to be &quot;better,&quot; Petroski feels that an object will always be less than perfect. His theory, in part, is that because most objects have multiple purposes, the object can not perform any single task perfectly. This idea of the competition of purposes is best illustrated from the book by Petroski's examination of eating utensils. The perfect utensil would be one that could cut and lift food to the mouth for eating. But knifes that cut have difficulty in lifting, forks are almost useless with a soup, and a spoon doesn't cut well. By showing us the evolution of the flatware selection (which remains imperfect), Petroski gives weight to his theory.<br />But I'm not wholly convinced. Perhaps it's because I read Norman first that I want to defend him. I want to believe that objects can be bettered--an interface can be easier to use, etc. The difference between Norman and Petroski is also one of style. Norman's prose is almost light weight compared to the dense, multi-syllabic approach used by Petroski, and Norman wasn't afraid to use terms and ideas that were not in lay usage. It could be that Norman's short columnar structure breaks up the duty of trying to convey so much information that his is more readable prose. It could also be that Petroski likes the language of academia, even when it begins to obfuscate. From the design standpoint, both authors are worthwhile. It is important to see specific examples of real world solutions to design problems to come up with ideas for our own designs, be it a fork, a building, or software.	2003-01-26
1252194:US	53084041	R1K3UR37D9YB8K	1881117030	578189630	Clinker Islands: A Complete History of the Galapagos Archepelago	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A collection of facts, rather dryly told	The title is Herman Melville's name for the Galapagos--obviously, he wasn't a fan. I meant to read Melville's account (a short story entitled &quot;The Encantadas&quot;) but the one chance I got to stop at a library was only to our sad little local branch, on which they spent a lot of money, but hardly any of it on books. Otterman's book is a compendium of the human visitation to the Galapagos, complied from ship's logs, personal narratives, and newspaper clippings. She calls her work a history, but I find that appellation too generous for her method of listing every voyage that dropped anchor in the Archipelago. For some silly reason, I thought a history involved &quot;story&quot; rather than just facts (on the other hand, I remember high school history almost too vividly, and a list of facts is about as good as it got there). Jill read this entire book, but I must confess that I skimmed a lot, checking out the bits about the pirates, Mrs. Wittmer, Dr. Ritter, and the Floreana group.	2003-01-26
1252195:US	53084041	RORTZ20KX26NQ	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The best book on its subject	I read the chapters pertaining to the Galapagos from this excellent new book by Outside magazine writing star, Quammen. The full book is about island biogeography, the new method of looking at total ecosystems (island in this case does not necessarily mean a body of land surrounded by water), of which the Galapagos is only one of the more representative cases. The first three chapters--&quot;Thirty-Six Persian Throw Rugs,&quot; &quot;The Man Who Knew Islands,&quot; and &quot;So Huge a Bignes&quot;--center on Quammen's hero, the little known co-discoverer of Natural Selection as a means of evolution, Alfred Russel Wallace. For a book that is about science, Quammen certainly knows how to write about history, and the story of Wallace is well worth the price of this book. In short, Wallace was a self-educated naturalist, who relied on selling the majority of the specimens he collected to wealthy naturalists (like Charles Darwin). However, because he had to collect so much more, he was able to discover the difference between species variation and simple individual differences firsthand. He identified the selection principles enacted by geography during his collecting in Indonesia, and that gave rise to the paper that earned him co-discovery of &quot;natural selection.&quot;<br />As Jill says, Quammen is such a good writer that he makes even the heavy slogging through some of the highly technical bit interesting. His Outside magazine style combined with meticulous research and logic building that rivals Stephen Jay Gould would make this the best book on its subject, except for the fact that it is currently the only one (Jill corrects me--it is the only one on its subject written for the lay reader).	2003-01-26
1252201:US	53084041	R2SCMQXRCEY8TA	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fantasy anti-heroes that break from the normal mold	One of my favorite series as a teenager was Stephen R. Donaldson's Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever. What struck me about those books, as I was just relating to Jill the other day, was how they took the conventions of the fantasy genre and switched them around: the character was not someone you would want to emulate (he rapes a woman in the second chapter of the first book), the plot revolved around his refusal to act against evil (i.e., be a hero), and the characters sometimes did things that weren't quite what you expected (the situation referred to above, among others). Yes, I know that Donaldson did not invent the concept of the anti-hero, but it was the first time that I ran across the idea, and I liked it. Looking back, I think that there's more to those books than just the anti-hero device--Donaldson's world-building in that first trilogy was thorough, not quite derivative of Tolkien and Lewis (unlike Terry Brooks' abysmal The Sword of Shannara), yet owing much to them.<br />Glen Cook's The Black Company reminds me of those books, but also does something unique with the concept. While it has a narrator who figures prominently in the plot, the true \\"heroes\\" of The Black Company is the group of warriors after which the book is named. True mercenaries, they battle for hire, sometimes taking the side of \\"evil\\" in their long history. I put \\"evil\\" in quotes because in Cook's world, like ours, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish good from evil. Croaker, the narrator, is the physician and annalist for the mercenary band, which has seen better days before the time at which the novel opens. Trapped in a city with a client who is obviously on the losing side, the company try to hold the town while looking for a way to survive with their honor intact. Their solution leads them into the service of a wizard named Soulcatcher, one of the Ten Who Were Taken, now in the service of the Lady of the north who has just been released from her years of captivity. The Lady and her ten wizards have retaken much of the north, but they are steadily losing ground to the Rebel forces who have a prophecy that the Lady will be defeated when they find the child known as the White Rose. As in the Covenant books, people die, are transfigured, and betray their comrades with a style not often found in fantasy. Nowadays, this would be marketed as Dark Fantasy--that weird genre or subgenre reserved for books that have wizards and magic yet retain a little more grit in them rather than be filled with sugar and spice.<br />The Black Company was recommended to me as an Excellent book by the Alexandria Digital Library--while I Enjoyed the book, I doubt I'll ever re-read it, so instead I found it merely Really Good.he Lady and her ten wizards have retaken much of the north, but they are steadily losing ground to the Rebel forces who have a prophecy that the Lady will be defeated when they find the child known as the White Rose. As in the Covenant books, people die, are transfigured, and betray their comrades with a style not often found in fantasy. Nowadays, this would be marketed as Dark Fantasy--that weird genre or subgenre reserved for books that have wizards and magic yet retain a little more grit in them rather than be filled with sugar and spice.<br />The Black Company was recommended to me as an Excellent book by the Alexandria Digital Library--while I Enjoyed the book, I doubt I'll ever re-read it, so instead I found it merely Really Good.	2003-01-26
1252221:US	53084041	R3JS72E528DPCH	1556508506	608724423	The Traveler's Guide to the Galapagos Islands	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The best single book about your Galapagos trip	Written by the owner of the tour company we decided to go with, I had ordered of copy of this from an Internet bookstore, only to find that we were to receive a free copy with our trip deposit. The extra went to Jill's mom, who travels vicariously with us when she and Bob aren't gallivanting about on their own. If you can only get one book for your trip to the Galapagos, this is the most comprehensive, covering booking a tour; the history, geology, botany, zoology of the islands; and photographing flora, fauna and landscape, all written in a light, humorous style. Other guide books go into farther detail on some items, but this is the best one stop shop.	2003-01-26
1252296:US	53084041	RQILGOZQQILK3	0876858108	552406508	Medea the Sorceress (Archaeology of Movies and Books, Vol. 1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Poetry or Diary?  Interesting all the same!	I'm not someone who normally buys poetry collections, although I do like poetry, and have several collections on my shelves (including a complete works of ee cummings that I'm still working my way through and a battered hardback of the complete poetry of T.S. Eliot). So why did I pick up this collection by Wakoski? A correspondent turned me onto this passage:<br />\\"My model is your double world reality in Sleeping In Flame, which people can conveniently interpret as the physical and the psychological if they wish to ignore magic.\\"<br />She is, indeed, referring to the novel by Jonathan Carroll, and this collection is full of a strange interpretation influenced by and predicated on Carroll's novels. Like the best poetry, it is so much more, as well.<br />The structure is unlike any other poetry collection I've ever come across. Intermixed with the poems are letters purportedly from Wakoski to Carroll and a young protege named Craig--I say purportedly because I doubt that what we see are the same words that Wakoski actually might send these two--and quotes from Nick Herbert's Quantum Reality: Beyond the New Physics. The combination is appealing to a jaded, sound-bite audience, with its quick jumps from one style and tone to the next. We may not be sure what the hell Wakoski is trying to get at, but it is kind of fun to take the ride with her. And, every once and a while, the poetry truly shines, as in the self-effacing \\"My $15 Lily,\\" wherein Wakoski details a purchase mistake, or the personally-revealing \\"Men's Eyes,\\" in which she starts with those famous eyes of movie stars, but somehow ends up with those eyes of her husband.<br />I picked up this volume because of the Carroll connection, but I plan to pick up the successor to this (a planned trilogy of volumes under the heading \\"The Archaeology of Movies and Books\\") because Wakoski is interesting in her own right.	2003-01-26
1252315:US	53084041	R2QY6U83B12K7V	038000772X	543590867	I'm OK-You're OK	Books	3	11	31	N	N	We're all OK, but is that enough today?	In answer to the usual question, \\"Yes, I do read all of these books-- every page.\\" I admit that sometimes I want to do like the friar in Monty Python and the Holy Grail and \\"skip a bit, brother,\\" but I always persevere...that is, with the books you see talked about in these pages. For every one that gets covered here, there's usually another that I started and I haven't managed to finish yet. I have a friend in Los Angeles who used what he called the \\"10% Rule,\\" which somehow how to do with making it 10% of the page count of the book. Personally, if I'm not enjoying a book enough to continue, I just put it aside. Sometimes I restart them; more often than not, they languish.<br />This self-help book by Harris was a recommendation from the Lutheran minister who married Jill and I. It was a requirement of his that we do some pre-marital counseling with him before he would conduct the ceremony, and though neither of us felt it necessary, we humored him in this request. As it turned out, we enjoyed the experience, because it helped us talk about some things that we had conveniently swept under the rug for the many years we had spent together. We also enjoyed the little self-assessment test that he made us take-- we maxed out the \\"Equality\\" section, an indication of how much we view each other as full partners in our relationship.<br />I wish I could say the same thing about I'm OK - You're OK, but it just wasn't as much fun or as enlightening as even that simple test. I felt that the book was extremely dated, and, given my feeling of equality as an important issue, quite sexist in its own way. I remember having some difficulties with another self-help book of this same period years ago (I believe it was Gail Sheehey's Passages), where the examples were so flamingly early seventies that to read them was like seeing people wearing gold chains and bell-bottom trousers. And throughout the book, I found myself wanting to be reading Games People Play, which is referenced many times within this book, and sounded like a much more interesting treatise.times within this book, and sounded like a much more interesting treatise.	2003-01-26
1252434:US	53084041	RU1TWSQE9NRPM	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	3	0	5	N	N	An acquired taste of the islands	The only fiction that we read on the islands, this strange little novel by Vonnegut (hmm, that's probably an oxymoronic statement) contains quite a bit about the natural history and make-up of the place than one might expect. A science fiction story about 1986 and the events that caused the end of the human race, except for an accidental experimental colony on Santa Rosalie (not an actual island in the chain, as far as I could tell), the story is part tragedy, part comedy--a post-modern expose on humans and human nature, with special emphasis on the benefits of natural selection. Vonnegut is not for everyone, but if you can stand his laconic wit, this is the most unique book that you can find about the Galapagos.	2003-01-26
1252463:US	53084041	RUISIQGSQBSRD	1565048709	777694462	Zod Wallop	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Effective and imaginative	The inevitable comparison that Zod Wallop brings to mind is to Jonathan Carroll's The Land of Laughs. Both novels revolve around a children's book that is directly affecting the lives of the other characters. The approach that the two authors take to the subject is quite different--Carroll, even in his first novel, drifts around the fantastic, never quite making it real, preferring to define his characters by the world of which we know. Spencer embraces the fantastic, so much so that it is hard sometimes to tell where the \\"real\\" world and the fantastic world come together. If one thinks of this balance between the real and the fantastic as a see-saw, in Carroll's world the heavier child is the real world, and vice versa in Spencer.<br />Harry Gainsborough wrote books for his daughter, Amy. His books were so good that they were published and became well-loved children's books across the world. But when his daughter drowns in a freak accident, he enters into a depression so severe that his agent checks him into a psychiatric ward. In the hospital, the therapist suggests that he write another book--hoping that the creative process will lift him out of despair. Instead, the book that he writes, Zod Wallop, is a bleak, dark novel--the kind of children's book that the Wicked Witch of the West would have written.<br />Zod Wallop is also Harry Gainsborough's most popular novel, more popular even than Bocky and the Moon Weasels or The Bathtub Wars. Children the world over love Zod Wallop, but none more so than Raymond Story, who read it while a patient at the Harwood Psychiatric Hospital. Raymond, who almost drowned when he was 8, sees his near-death experience as a link to the author of Zod Wallop. Raymond, who when he came across the first draft of Zod Wallop, destroyed the dark, original version that Harry had written. Or had he just hidden the book?<br />Lastly, William Browning Spencer's Zod Wallop is about the drug, Ecknazine, administered by Marlin Tate to a group of patients at the Harwood Psychiatric who had extremely rich imaginative lives. The goal of Tate's experiment was to enable telepathic communication, but the drug did something else, something much more strange than telepathy. The drug enabled Zod Wallop to come to life.<br />Spencer's novel is a complex knot of these three stories, moving at a reckless pace towards the conclusion. Zod Wallop is not a predictable book--it steadfastly refuses to toe the line of any one genre, going through thriller, fantasy, horror, science fiction, and mainstream in the course of its pages. I would not call it slipstream either, because it doesn't have a singular consistency of vision. The point is that it works, and in straight comparison to The Land of Laughs, it works better, because it works towards a resolution--one much more rewarding than Carroll's first effort. Spencer still has some honing before his prose is as sharp as Carroll's, specifically the Carroll of Bones of the Moon or After Silence, but Zod Wallop shows that he has the imagination and skills to be in the same league.patients at the Harwood Psychiatric who had extremely rich imaginative lives. The goal of Tate's experiment was to enable telepathic communication, but the drug did something else, something much more strange than telepathy. The drug enabled Zod Wallop to come to life.<br />Spencer's novel is a complex knot of these three stories, moving at a reckless pace towards the conclusion. Zod Wallop is not a predictable book--it steadfastly refuses to toe the line of any one genre, going through thriller, fantasy, horror, science fiction, and mainstream in the course of its pages. I would not call it slipstream either, because it doesn't have a singular consistency of vision. The point is that it works, and in straight comparison to The Land of Laughs, it works better, because it works towards a resolution--one much more rewarding than Carroll's first effort. Spencer still has some honing before his prose is as sharp as Carroll's, specifically the Carroll of Bones of the Moon or After Silence, but Zod Wallop shows that he has the imagination and skills to be in the same league.	2003-01-26
1252562:US	53084041	R3PHTJVTTCOZU4	1851450572	486450483	Life of Python	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Like a biography of a rock band	Perry's first version of this biography of the Monty Python comedy team was published in 1983 and I read it in 1987. Some good friends who knew that I was python phanatic gave me this, not knowing of an earlier version--and how would they, because there is no indication on this book that it is a rewrite/reprint of anything. The indica page even states that this is a first edition and doesn't list the earlier book as the source of any material. Strange are the ways of publishers. The subject of Perry's writing deserves the update. The team has only grown in popularity over the intervening years and the members continue to entertain audiences with new work, from Gilliam's directing/writing career to Cleese's acting. The Life of Python reads like a biography of a rock band, which Python actually is more similar to than the traditional comedy group such as the Marx brothers. They are also, like the great rock groups of the sixties, now missing one member, making the chance of a true reformation impossible. Graham Chapman's death is not preventing Eric Idle from attempting a reunion \\"concert,\\" this time to be presented in Las Vegas (the very idea of which appeals to the members' sense of humor).<br />The basic material of the book is to try to track each member of the group from their comedic beginnings to the formation of the troupe and then to the work following the cancellation of the TV series, all interwoven by time. Sounds like a mess, but it works. Perry interviewed all the members, sometimes more than once, and the book is liberally sprinkled with quotes. This new version has color photos as well as black and white, which fills the book (every page has a picture on it). This is probably the definitive biography of the group, although Kim \\"Howard\\" Johnson's The First 20X Years of Monty Python is a close second.	2003-01-26
1252584:US	53084041	R14C4F8W5GC39G	0151730768	414253898	Poor Things: Episodes from the Early Life of Archibald McCandless M.D. Scottish Public Health Officer	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Eccentric alternate history/fantasy	I make it my job to read some pretty weird books--as an aficionado of science fiction and fantasy, I sometimes run into some doozies-- but this novel by Gray has to be one of the strangest that I've run into recently. The fact that this novel was not published in the genre, and won a couple of mainstream awards makes me wonder what else I'm missing in the &quot;mundane&quot; fiction shelves.<br />Poor Things is supposedly non-fiction, as illustrated by its full title on the title page: &quot;Poor Things: Episodes from the Early Life of Archibald McCandless M.D., Scottish Public Health Officer, Edited by Alasdair Gray.&quot; But this is all part of its mystique. Gray has constructed a literary puzzle, a Frankenstein's monster of a book that takes its inspiration from that novel by Mary Shelley as well as the works of Robert Louis Stevenson and H.G. Wells. McCandless is the titular biographer, but the story is actually that of the eccentric Scottish doctor Godwin Baxter and his &quot;creation,&quot; Bella Baxter, later known as Dr. Victoria McCandless. Set in Glasgow in the 1880s, the plot entails how McCandless met Baxter, how he then met Baxter's protege Bella and fell in love with her, her subsequent departure, and the circumstances of her return. To reveal any more would be to dilute the heavy stuff of the novel's innovative twists.<br />If Gray were writing with the Fantasy label stuck on the spine of his books, I would have termed this one a &quot;steampunk&quot; novel for its revisionist look at medicine and technology in a pre-auto world. Fans of Tim Powers and James Blaylock should definitely check this one out.	2003-01-26
1252716:US	53084041	R2RN5BD15CUIC7	0152525955	312307625	Mary Poppins (Harcourt Brace Young Classics)	Books	2	9	20	N	N	For Children Only	I never read this as a child, but I did see the Disney movie. However, it's been so long since I saw the movie that I can't recall much about it other than \\"Supercalifrag...\\"--you know--and, while there's a medicine scene here, it certainly didn't ring any memory bells. I suspect that Disney was true to form and took quite a few liberties with the story. On its own, the book is quite disjointed. I can see where it might work on a read-aloud a chapter-per-night basis, but in one sitting it was hurried and almost nonsensical. Part of my dissatisfaction could be that I am not the intended audience, but I feel that children's books like children's movies should be able to grab both the interest of children and adults alike, at least once.<br />I'm going to have to file Mary Poppins with Norman Juster's The Phantom Tollbooth as another children's book that I just missed out on. Thankfully, I was able to still appreciate books like The Adventures of Pinocchio and James and the Giant Peach, although I had not read those as a child.	2003-01-26
1252735:US	53084041	R2BCIRZXV0I5VM	0446391174	484260691	Adventures in the Screen Trade: A Personal View of Hollywood and Screenwriting	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fascinating, although more useful today as history	I had wanted to read this book for years, ever since typing innumerable papers for University of Texas Radio-Television-Film students forced to read and report on it for some beginner class. It wasn't their reports that interested me, but the fact that this text was considered the sine qua non of the university RTF world--the text that you needed to have read, because everyone else had. Goldman's credentials were substantial, having written some quite substantial films both in critical and box-office terms, like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All the President's Men. He further endeared himself to me by his wonderful book and film, The Princess Bride. But I never read this book for years because I wanted to own a hardback version of it. Browsing this past year in the stacks at the Bellevue Half-Price Books, I chanced upon just that, and finally was able to fill a decade old longing.<br />Adventures in the Screen Trade is somewhat dated now, even though it is only 13 years old. The movie trade is moving and shifting at an incredible pace (although not as quite as fast as the Internet), and what is golden one year, can be video-fodder the next. Goldman's expose of the in-and-out of movie-making, from the screenwriter's perspective, is uncomfortably close to the old adage about sausage and politics--you don't want to see either being made. Yet, like an automobile wreck on your way home from work, you find that you just can't help from looking. Goldman does a good job of presenting the business straight-forward, if with a tinge of understandable bias for the writer, that underlines the power of stars and the blockbuster mentality. A sequel, updating this book and adding Goldman's extra thirteen years of experience, would be welcome, I think (and which has now been written--see Goldman's new book).	2003-01-26
1252768:US	53084041	R1UM66SUZQST6F	0312864523	117842815	Requiem	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Vivid and ambiguous, like life itself	Graham Joyce came highly recommended by Jonathan Carroll, and that's enough recommendation for me to read a phone book. Requiem, Joyce's fourth novel and the first to be published in the U.S., is a quirky book, written in a weirdly flowing style that I associate with several of today's British authors (Mary Gentle is the author that comes to mind immediately, although shades of Geoff Ryman and Greg Egan are also present). This style is achieved partly through the use of dialogue as a method for moving plot, wherein elements to the story are told by the characters, but almost as a short story told by the narrator to the other characters. The other major element to this style is the use of blind switchbacks (or red herrings) in the plot, and a willingness to \\"leave out\\" information, that the reader must fill in by putting together narrator comments, dialogue, and a good guess. In Gentle's case, I can't take this style--she does it to such an extent or I am such a fast reader that I miss the subtle implications and quickly get lost as to what is actually happening. Joyce only does it somewhat, reserving it for the secrets that surround his narrator.<br />Requiem is about guilt. The trick is to determine exactly what guilt. Tom's wife Katie dies in a freak traffic accident--her car is smashed by a fallen tree--so Tom quits his job as a teacher and travels to Jerusalem. Although it's been six months, he still has strange feelings about his wife's death, much more than just the natural ones of mourning and loss. There's also something not quite right at the school, helping him make the decision to leave for awhile. In Jerusalem, he connects with an old college friend, Sharon, who is working for a women's counseling center. Along the way he befriends an old man who runs a hostel. While exploring the old city, something he had always wanted to do, and feels guilty about doing it without Katie, especially after her death, he finds himself adrift, confronted by Arab vagabonds, and this strange old woman who scratches out a message in the sandstone walls with her fingernail.<br />The similarities with Carroll are many. Not only do scenes have that slightly unreal feeling, while remaining so detailed and close to home, the characters are vivid and intriguing, the narrator is questionable in his sanity, and then there's the ancient manuscript that might be a part of the Dead Sea Scrolls find that could change our concept of the gospel as it is now known. In both large and small items, the concept of truth and honesty is ambiguous.<br />I liked Requiem, and almost wanted to read it again as soon as I finished it, to see if there were things that I missed as I sped through the book, caught up in the world and the fine writing. I'm searching for Joyce's other novels, delighted to find another writer who appeals to that same sense of mystery and wonder that has caught me up in the works of Davies, Carroll, and Banks., and this strange old woman who scratches out a message in the sandstone walls with her fingernail.<br />The similarities with Carroll are many. Not only do scenes have that slightly unreal feeling, while remaining so detailed and close to home, the characters are vivid and intriguing, the narrator is questionable in his sanity, and then there's the ancient manuscript that might be a part of the Dead Sea Scrolls find that could change our concept of the gospel as it is now known. In both large and small items, the concept of truth and honesty is ambiguous.<br />I liked Requiem, and almost wanted to read it again as soon as I finished it, to see if there were things that I missed as I sped through the book, caught up in the world and the fine writing. I'm searching for Joyce's other novels, delighted to find another writer who appeals to that same sense of mystery and wonder that has caught me up in the works of Davies, Carroll, and Banks.	2003-01-26
1252797:US	53084041	R3LKQNWZTS7S2P	1565049136	167541617	Resume with Monsters	Books	4	6	9	N	N	More like Philip K. Dick than Howard P. Lovecraft	Darrell Schweitzer's blurb for this book reads, \\"If Woody Allen had ever written a Cthulhu Mythos novel, it might have come out like this.\\" Pithy, short, moderately funny, interesting, and entirely wrong. Yes, there are Cthulhu references here, and yes, Spencer can write with humor, but this is not \\"Everything You Always Wanted to Know about the Necrinomicon (But Were Afraid to Ask).\\" If we must resort to comparing Spencer to other writers, Resume with Monsters owes the most to Philip K. Dick rather than H.P. Lovecraft.<br />The main character is Philip (what a giveaway, eh?) who works at Ralph's One-Day Resumes in Austin, Texas. He moved there to find his girlfriend Amelia, who ran away from the high-tech company Micromeg that they had both worked at previously because of an accident which Philip crazily attributes to the workings of the Great Old Ones. Amelia attributes insanity to Philip, likely brought on by his obsession with the characters of H.P. Lovecraft, and manifested in the magnum opus of a novel that Philip is constantly revising entitled The Despicable Quest. Philip claims that the novel is the only thing keeping Yog-Sothoth at bay.<br />Is Resume with Monsters funny? Yes, but it is in its incongruities, the warped reality of what Philip sees and how others react. The strength of the novel is wrapped up in the ambiguity of Philip--we recognize him as an unreliable narrator, but, as in Philip K. Dick's novel, the question is not whether to trust the narrator, but how much one can trust the world. Spencer handles this well, and there are quite a few plot twists to make things interesting, including having Philip's consciousness flung back in time to relive the Micromeg incident, the zombie co-workers, and a management recruitment program straight out of Dilbert (well, if Scott Adams worked for Nyarlathotep, Inc.). Resume with Monsters is not as well done as Spencer's latest, Zod Wallop, but is well worth checking out, especially for fans of both Dick and Lovecraft.Lovecraft.	2003-01-26
1252809:US	53084041	R3EMPKDUV6W3GF	0942681002	64387588	All about strange monsters of the recent past: Neat stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There's no one quite like Howard Waldrop	No one--and I mean no one at all--writes a short story like Howard Waldrop. If you like Howard's stories, that's unfortunate, because that means that you have to wait for your next fix from the single source rather than being able to rely on multiple suppliers. But them's the breaks when you're talking about a writer who has a unique style and voice.<br />This collection from 1987 showcases seven of those wonderful stories, bracketed by an introduction from Gardner Dozois and an afterword by Lewis Shiner, and in conjunction with some original artwork by people like Tim Kirk, Terry Lee, and Hank Jankus (at least in this version, the signed, limited and slipcased edition; YMMV). The stories are reprinted from both Shayol, a fanzine produced by Pat Cadigan and Arnie Fenner (someone once said that the most important thing for Howard's career was for him to send his stories to the highest paying market first rather than starting with the semi-pro magazines), to OMNI (the highest paying market; hmm, someone must have finally told Howard). The stories are:<br />  * &quot;All About Strange Monsters of the Recent Past&quot; -- His second story ever sold, but one that took years to actually see print. What makes a Howard Waldrop story? A Grade B monster movie plot treated as if it actually occurred from the viewpoint of the national guardsman called in to help fight it. The difference is point of view. Howard's able to make the story unique by establishing a unique focus on it.<br />  * &quot;Helpless, Helpless&quot; -- A perfect little tale of disease and civilization, trading off that adage that he who forgets history is bound to repeat it and Alfred Bester's tale of the android and the heat. Short, but to the point.<br />  * &quot;Fair Game&quot; -- Another of Howard's signatures is that he does his research, almost to the point of absurdity given the economics of scale. But in science fiction, it tends to pay off, because readers are trained in watching the minutia, and if you can carry it off, they will be pleased. Here, it is Hemingway and the hunt is on.<br />  * &quot;What Makes Hieronymous Run?&quot; -- Hieronymous, of course, is Bosch, and the research also includes Brueghel the Elder and a number of other warped Renaissance painters, whose fevered imagination comes to life in this tale.<br />  * &quot;The Lions Are Asleep This Night&quot; -- As Howard tells it in the introduction, he walks a fine line between telling a subtle story and a rarefied one. There have been many times that I've felt that he crossed the bounds, just because my knowledge of history, culture, or mythology wasn't enough to keep up him. This is one about a different Africa, but there are enough clues here for most anyone to understand the differences.<br />  * &quot;Flying Saucer Rock and Roll&quot; -- This is probably one of my top three favorite Waldrop stories, and one of my top 20 favorite short stories. The reasons are two-fold: number one, it's that good; number two, I heard Waldrop read it out loud. If you ever get the chance to hear Waldrop read a story, do take it. The only other reading I can think of offhand that I thought was any better than this reading was Dan Simmons reading &quot;Entropy's Bed at Midnight.&quot;<br />  * &quot;He-We-Await&quot; -- A little bit of Ancient Egypt and the return of an awaited messiah, but not quite the type you might have been thinking of.<br />This collection appeared in paperback a few years back, but is likely out of print now. If you are a fan of alternate history or the short story, you owe it to yourself to check the used book racks for this or one of Howard's other collections. You won't be sorry.and if you can carry it off, they will be pleased. Here, it is Hemingway and the hunt is on.<br />    * &quot;What Makes Hieronymous Run?&quot; -- Hieronymous, of course, is Bosch, and the research also includes Brueghel the Elder and a number of other warped Renaissance painters, whose fevered imagination comes to life in this tale.<br />    * &quot;The Lions Are Asleep This Night&quot; -- As Howard tells it in the introduction, he walks a fine line between telling a subtle story and a rarefied one. There have been many times that I've felt that he crossed the bounds, just because my knowledge of history, culture, or mythology wasn't enough to keep up him. This is one about a different Africa, but there are enough clues here for most anyone to understand the differences.<br />    * &quot;Flying Saucer Rock and Roll&quot; -- This is probably one of my top three favorite Waldrop stories, and one of my top 20 favorite short stories. The reasons are two-fold: number one, it's that good; number two, I heard Waldrop read it out loud. If you ever get the chance to hear Waldrop read a story, do take it. The only other reading I can think of offhand that I thought was any better than this reading was Dan Simmons reading &quot;Entropy's Bed at Midnight.&quot;<br />    * &quot;He-We-Await&quot; -- A little bit of Ancient Egypt and the return of an awaited messiah, but not quite the type you might have been thinking of.<br />This collection appeared in paperback a few years back, but is likely out of print now. If you are a fan of alternate history or the short story, you owe it to yourself to check the used book racks for this or one of Howard's other collections. You won't be sorry.	2003-01-26
1252815:US	53084041	R2O792741WXIGG	155921001X	720349412	Floreana: A Woman's Pilgrimage to the Galapagos	Books	4	30	31	N	N	An amazing story, with a touch of unsolved mystery	Jill and I went to the Galapagos Islands in 1996, something we had wanted to do for several years. In preparation, we collected information on the islands by previous travelers, and this is the first of many books we read about these isolated islands in the Pacific, roughly 600 miles west of Equador on the South American mainland.<br />Wittmer, her husband Heinz, and her stepson Harry originally landed on Floreana in 1932. The only other people on Floreana were two fellow German nationals: Dr. Ritter, a self-avowed vegetarian and nudist who was determined to prove his theory that a human could live double their normal span if they followed his ideas on purity of mind and spirit, and his most devoted disciple, Dora. They initially lived in a natural cave previously used by pirates in the 1800s, then built a successive series of homes. Wittmer gives birth to the first human native of Floreana, they battle wild cattle for possession of their garden, encounter the &quot;Empress of Floreana,&quot; ad survive at least three different Equadorian governors, one of which tries to have them evicted. Their visitors include American millionaires on round-the-world cruises, the crew of cargo vessels that kindly stop to deliver and pick up mail in a sort of marine pony express, several scientists and naturalists including the famed explorer Thor Heyerdahl, and presidents of both Equador and the United States.<br />Wittmer's account is not so much about the islands than it is about herself and her family's struggle to survive on the island. That doesn't mean you don't come away from Floreana with an understanding of the islands--you do, but the point-of-view is that of the settler, rather than what one has come to expect of from the Galapagos (say, Darwin's scientific accounts from Voyage of the Beagle).<br />I've often said that travel accounts (even of the sedentary nature as this one) resemble science fiction. Both treat a human encounter with the unknown in a factual nature, one being fiction and the other factual. In Floreana, isolated from normal human civilization, Wittmer and her family experience a true alien encounter with our world and its native creatures.ne being fiction and the other factual. In Floreana, isolated from normal human civilization, Wittmer and her family experience a true alien encounter with our world and its native creatures.	2003-01-26
1252855:US	53084041	R3MDD1KYG9B263	0771025653	704041170	Enthusiasms of Robertson Davies	Books	4	6	6	N	N	As eclectic in his non-fiction as in his fiction	I took a break from Davies fiction this month to read this collection of non-fiction, culled from over thirty years of essays, and grouped into three broad categories: Characters, Books, and Robertson Davies. I say broad because Davies was not thinking of these categories as he wrote these essays. Instead, these were written to fill his column at the Peterborough Examiner (&quot;A Writer's Diary&quot;) or book reviews for various American publications such as Harper's, The Washington Post, or The Atlantic Monthly. Characters, however, tends to be about &quot;lives&quot;--either the lives of authors (including Wodehouse and Freud), literary creations (mehitabel), or theater figures (Emma Calve and Melli Nelba). Okay, I'll admit it--I didn't know who Calve and Nelba were either, but that's because I'm a book person, not a theater person. Even so, some of the authors and books covered here do stretch even my prodigious reading (not to mention my memory), partly due to the age of some of these essays (some as early as 1942) and partly due to Davies quite eclectic interests. That's why I like him, however. Eclecticism is the mark of someone not afraid of change.<br />The Books section is just as varied, covering Graves' King Jesus and Hardy's Tess of the d'Urbervilles. What was interesting for me is his comment on the Mervyn Peake's fantasy classic, The Gormenghast Trilogy, which I have tried to read several times and never found it to catch my interest. I must have another go at it sometime in the near future. In this section of book reviews, it is interesting to note the progression (the articles are arranged in chronological order) of how the writer views the writing of his forebears and his peers, especially in the light of the wonderful writer Davies himself was becoming. The essay that hits closest to home is his essay on Joyce Cary's novels and their inventive method of retelling tales using the same characters, which Davies was to modify for his three trilogies.<br />Finally, the section entitled Robertson Davies gives you a personal glimpse into the writer at work, as well as the curmudgeon at play. The essay entitled &quot;A Chat with a Great Reader&quot; alone is worth the price of the book. In it, Davies recalls a conversation with a fellow at a party who claims to be a &quot;Great Reader&quot; and is delighted to meet Davies, a &quot;Critic.&quot; The distinctions are quite telling, and an indictment on those who play at the game of knowledge and entertainment. While not everything here is as funny or insightful, these two to five page essays are the perfect compliment to your bedstand or reading chair, as bon bons to your main meal of words.br />Finally, the section entitled Robertson Davies gives you a personal glimpse into the writer at work, as well as the curmudgeon at play. The essay entitled &quot;A Chat with a Great Reader&quot; alone is worth the price of the book. In it, Davies recalls a conversation with a fellow at a party who claims to be a &quot;Great Reader&quot; and is delighted to meet Davies, a &quot;Critic.&quot; The distinctions are quite telling, and an indictment on those who play at the game of knowledge and entertainment. While not everything here is as funny or insightful, these two to five page essays are the perfect compliment to your bedstand or reading chair, as bon bons to your main meal of words.	2003-01-26
1252879:US	53084041	R27HR3E4SBPOTG	0441627404	52422715	The Once and Future King	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Starts strong, then gets philosophical and serious	A selection from Jill's library, she recommended White's magnum opus to me as a book that she loved from her youth, but wasn't quite sure how well it help up today. After reading it, I can see how it could easily capture the heart of the young. It is like Tolkien's Hobbit and Lord of the Rings--it opens on a light, fanciful note, then moves into a deepening gloom, filled with despair and humor, epic quests and little character studies, ending on both a sad and hopeful note. The Once and Future King is, of course, Arthur, about whom Sir Mallory made his fame, and made Arthur famous, in L'Morte D'Arthur. White expects his reader to have read Mallory, making reference to it more than once. White is not merely retelling the story of Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table (although one can pick up the salient points by reading The Once and Future King); he is using the legend to explore the idea of honor, might, strength, and the feudal system.<br />Most people are familiar with the opening book of The Once and Future King, \\"The Sword and the Stone,\\" from the obligatory butchery done to it by Disney. Like Carlos Collodi's Pinocchio and Felix Salten's Bambi, the flesh of White's story--the part that illuminates and fills out the plot--was picked clean from the bones of the structure. You recognize the major points in Disney, but there is always something that gets left out. Disney's version of \\"The Sword and the Stone\\" leaves out the rough parts, showing only the fun and fanciful bits (Kay remains, but he is a one-sided shadow of his book self). Yes, it contains humor, but Arthur's upbringing by Merlin also has its dangerous aspects as does Sir Ector's treatment of his young ward. The following three books are as different from \\"The Sword in the Stone\\" as Disney's version of it differs from White's. The second book, \\"The Queen of Air and Darkness,\\" basically sets up the Orkney clan, a hot-headed Scots bunch that Arthur is related to (his father raped their mother's sister). While interesting, it lacks the \\"story arc\\" of the first book, and is mainly background for readers to understand why they act like they do in the third and fourth books.<br />The third book describes how Arthur created the Round Table, and what it's purpose was (to redirect the \\"might\\" of the ruling class inward, rather than outward at the people). He achieves his wish too well, creating a competition that he had hoped to avoid (the idea of the Round Table is that all who sit there are equals--no one sits at, or by, the head). Guinevere and Lancelot show up here as well, and the seeds are placed for their betrayal of Arthur (who herein is not that surprised or bothered by their adulterous affair--instead, it is envy of Lancelot by one of the Orkney clan and hatred of Arthur by his half-son Mordred that brings about their downfall). It is this downfall that the last book covers.<br />Some believe that Tolkien never intended for the Lord of the Rings to be read as an analogy of anything, contradicting the many scholarly essays on how Sauron represents Hitler, etc. White, on the other hand, is definitely saying something here about England, its imperialistic downfall, and the state of the world. Some of it is obvious, as in the discussion of Force Majeure and the concepts of \\"might\\" and \\"right.\\" Other parts require a PhD dissertation. I enjoyed The Once and Future King, but not as much if I had read it as a teenager, or if I had spent more time at it as a college student.ter). While interesting, it lacks the \\"story arc\\" of the first book, and is mainly background for readers to understand why they act like they do in the third and fourth books.<br />The third book describes how Arthur created the Round Table, and what it's purpose was (to redirect the \\"might\\" of the ruling class inward, rather than outward at the people). He achieves his wish too well, creating a competition that he had hoped to avoid (the idea of the Round Table is that all who sit there are equals--no one sits at, or by, the head). Guinevere and Lancelot show up here as well, and the seeds are placed for their betrayal of Arthur (who herein is not that surprised or bothered by their adulterous affair--instead, it is envy of Lancelot by one of the Orkney clan and hatred of Arthur by his half-son Mordred that brings about their downfall). It is this downfall that the last book covers.<br />Some believe that Tolkien never intended for the Lord of the Rings to be read as an analogy of anything, contradicting the many scholarly essays on how Sauron represents Hitler, etc. White, on the other hand, is definitely saying something here about England, its imperialistic downfall, and the state of the world. Some of it is obvious, as in the discussion of Force Majeure and the concepts of \\"might\\" and \\"right.\\" Other parts require a PhD dissertation. I enjoyed The Once and Future King, but not as much if I had read it as a teenager, or if I had spent more time at it as a college student.	2003-01-26
1283526:US	53084041	R3VDXPH6NNG9HD	0786867345	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A thrilling illusion of real history	Ever since I was a child, I've been fascinated by magic. The books I sought out in grammar school were ones that had magic in the title (Andre Norton's are the most memorable). I bugged my parents one year for a magic kit and received it for a birthday or Christmas present, I can't remember which. But I never became adept at performing tricks, preferring to be the fooled instead of the fooler. I wanted to believe in magic, to live in the world of imagination, and understanding how a trick was actually performed was too much of reality.<br />Thirty years later, I seek a different magic--that achieved by putting specific words in sequence to illuminate a different reality. Glen David Gould's book has that magic, as well as the magician that I could never become, Charles Carter, as its hero and protagonist. Gould's sleight-of-hand is deft, as he takes real personages like Carter, President Warren G. Harding, and Harry Houdini, and performs a virtuoso illusion of history, a history that you want to believe in, because Gould's patter and delivery is so strong, and one that you don't regret having believed in because it is so good.<br />The prologue sets the mystery up. Pres. Harding attends a San Francisco performance of Carter the Great's magic show, including taking part in the infamous third act entitled \\"Carter Beats the Devil,\\" which the audience is instructed not to reveal any of the details so as not to ruin it for future crowds. Unfortunately, Harding dies later that night, and Carter becomes a suspect, if only in rumor. His mysterious nature may prove his downfall as first the details of his third act are published in the paper, details that only further the gossip that he might have had a hand in Harding's death.<br />The novel then moves back in time to show us how Carter got to be in that place, including his discovery of a book on magic when younger and his slow rise through the vaudeville circuit, including his sudden leap to fame. I can't say anymore, because any more might destroy the illusion.<br />This is a deft work, made all the more so because it is the author's first novel. The easy comparison is to that other recent bestselling historical revisionism, Michael Chabon's The Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, and while the two have some similarities, they are vastly different in theme. Gould's is more of a thrill ride than Chabon's exegesis on how superheroes are an inherently American phenomenon. While I enjoyed Gould's book tremendously and highly recommend it, it doesn't have the deeper layers of meaning of Chabon's work.use any more might destroy the illusion.<br />This is a deft work, made all the more so because it is the author's first novel. The easy comparison is to that other recent bestselling historical revisionism, Michael Chabon's The Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, and while the two have some similarities, they are vastly different in theme. Gould's is more of a thrill ride than Chabon's exegesis on how superheroes are an inherently American phenomenon. While I enjoyed Gould's book tremendously and highly recommend it, it doesn't have the deeper layers of meaning of Chabon's work.	2003-01-03
1298802:US	53084041	R3KNVLSH0V2YTX	0140230157	465603557	Grail Tree (Lovejoy Mystery)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	If you like Lovejoy like I do...	The trouble with reading a series of books is trying to come up with something new to say with each succeeding book. If I stop enjoying the series, I'll stop reading the books, so I can't really complain about them. And I usually read them for enjoyment, not necessarily for any edification--and often the critical faculties will simply take a sabbatical while I'm in the midst of one.<br />In this Lovejoy mystery, Lovejoy has to overcome his incredulation over the fact that someone might actually possess the Holy Grail, and by the time he does so, someone's croaked and our roguish antiques dealer may be next. The new antique (er, a bit of an oxymoron) stuff here is Lovejoy's apprentice selection process, how to fake a chair, and the joys of trying to date all the women in a small English village--eligible or not.	2002-12-19
1299133:US	53084041	R2I6RI2R6IE8NE	0413741303	195140116	Life Of Brian Screenplay	Books	4	10	11	N	N	If you've seen the movie....	The format is a mass-market paperback, but this isn't a novelization but rather the screenplay as the movie was made. You'll notice that last has a subtle distinction. Oftentimes screenplays differ notably from the movies as you see them--scenes are cut because they didn't work, cost too much to do, or just because of the limits of time. The screenplays of Brazil and Monty Python and the Holy Grail are full of wonderful little tidbits that didn't make it to the screen. Unfortunately, for Life of Brian, there's only the parts that did get made, which are funny indeed, but you've already seen them.	2002-12-19
1299142:US	53084041	R1NHM4FIGZUO01	0679741836	488867373	Molly Ivins Can't Say That, Can She?	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Yer darn tootin' she can say that!	I've only recently begun to pay an active attention to politics. I may have paid attention to topics in the past, at least more than the majority of Americans since I did vote, but I didn't really search out information. These days, however, I tune to NPR for the coverage of certain issues, and will catch a newspaper or magazine article if the topic really intrigues me. It doesn't necessarily help me make political decisions any better than before, but I am better able to communicate my opinions.<br />I'm sure no one ever told Molly Ivins that she had trouble communicating her opinions, though. Communicate them she does, with a drawl and a wry grin. I'm sad that I've only recently started to search out information, because I would have loved to have read this essays by Ivins when they were topical. After the fact, they're enjoyable, especially since I lived in Texas during the time the majority of these essays were written. Some of the topics I recall vaguely, like the Gib-erish of Texas House Speaker Gib Lewis (&quot;I cannot tell you how grateful I am--I am filled with humidity.&quot; &quot;I want to thank each and every one of you for having extinguished yourselves this session.&quot;). Other topics I knew intimately, like the furor over Governor Mark White's &quot;No Pass, No Play&quot; rule.<br />It was fun to revisit those days and to catch up on those things I had missed because I was too busy playing around at school. Ivins' style is so full of Texas itself that it was scary--I felt like I was back amongst those dumb Aggies (a quick wave to my bubba!) and crazy rednecks. I even felt homesick for a moment--then I remembered: Texas, it's a good place to visit, but I've already lived there.	2002-12-19
1299148:US	53084041	R37M856PFSWHAX	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Incredibly enjoyable	Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash was one of the best science fiction books written in 199_--satiric, witty, thought-provoking, fun, and full of action. Had its ending lived up to the promise of the other 400 pages of the novel, and had Stan Robinson waited a while longer before writing his Mars epic, it is quite possible that Stephenson would have garnered a pair of awards for it.<br />As it was, a lot of people had a hard time believing that Snow Crash was Stephenson's first novel--of course, that's because it wasn't. But not many science fiction readers (this one included) had read his farcical view of campus life, The Big U, or his ecological thriller, Zodiac. Stephenson's name was new to the fans and he was literally the new kid on the block who everyone had to know and talk about. Most of the discussion ended with the question, &quot;What next?&quot;<br />What next was actually Interface, a near-future political thriller written in collaboration with his uncle and published under the pseudonym of Stephen Bury. This was not what fans wre expecting from Stephenson after the pyrotechnic Snow Crash, and it was probably a wise move for his publisher to print it under another name. For all their love of imagination and innovation, science fiction fans can rarely take too much of it from one author (which may end up being unfortunate for Stephenson, who is showing some amazing chameleon-like properties).<br />The Diamond Age is, however, the true child of Snow Crash, both the logical &quot;second novel&quot; for this &quot;new&quot; science fiction author, and the book that contains the freshness of the first with the wisdom of experience gained in the intervening time. While not as satiric as Snow Crash, this new novel more than makes up for it in the structured intensity of its plot and the internal consistency of character and place.<br />The subtitle of the book is &quot;A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer,&quot; after the integral plot and science fictional element--a truly inter- active teaching tool designed by an innovative nanotech engineer named John Percival Hackworth to help innoculate the granddaughter of Equity Lord Finkle-McGraw with the idea of &quot;taking chances&quot; that seems to have been lost in the traditional teaching methods. Hackworth, in his own act of rebellion, makes a copy for his own daughter, Fiona, then loses the copy which falls into the hands of a waif named Nell.<br />In some ways this is a traditional science fiction novel--set in a strange new world with problems similar to our own (education, the fragmentation of society, and an inadequate division of wealth), numerous complications, a couple of action sequences, and a resolution. Stephenson retains some of his native humor, seen in Hackworth's name (i.e., in relation to his position as the Hacker of the novel), as well as in the fractured fairy tale told in the Primer. In this novel, he seems to have more of a feeling for character--I especially felt an affinity towards Hackworth--although he still has the flashy language and technology that so endeared Snow Crash to fans.<br />The ending is still a disappointment. Not having read any of Stephenson's other work besides Snow Crash and this novel, I don't know if this is indicative of his work, but it is unfortunate. Once again, the promise of 400 pages is unrealized in the last 40 as The Diamond Age just seems to lose steam and fade off into the sunset. Characters last seen a hundred pages before are left unmentioned, a climatic &quot;rescue&quot; is missing its denounment, and everything seems unfinished. It is as if an entire chapter is missing. It's not even as if he was setting it up for a sequel, although such is always a possibility these days.<br />Even with the null ending, I enjoyed The Diamond Age more than any other science fiction book in recent memory, and I look forward to Neal Stephenson's next with even more anticipation than I did for this one.truly inter- active teaching tool designed by an innovative nanotech engineer named John Percival Hackworth to help innoculate the granddaughter of Equity Lord Finkle-McGraw with the idea of &quot;taking chances&quot; that seems to have been lost in the traditional teaching methods. Hackworth, in his own act of rebellion, makes a copy for his own daughter, Fiona, then loses the copy which falls into the hands of a waif named Nell.<br />In some ways this is a traditional science fiction novel--set in a strange new world with problems similar to our own (education, the fragmentation of society, and an inadequate division of wealth), numerous complications, a couple of action sequences, and a resolution. Stephenson retains some of his native humor, seen in Hackworth's name (i.e., in relation to his position as the Hacker of the novel), as well as in the fractured fairy tale told in the Primer. In this novel, he seems to have more of a feeling for character--I especially felt an affinity towards Hackworth--although he still has the flashy language and technology that so endeared Snow Crash to fans.<br />The ending is still a disappointment. Not having read any of Stephenson's other work besides Snow Crash and this novel, I don't know if this is indicative of his work, but it is unfortunate. Once again, the promise of 400 pages is unrealized in the last 40 as The Diamond Age just seems to lose steam and fade off into the sunset. Characters last seen a hundred pages before are left unmentioned, a climatic &quot;rescue&quot; is missing its denounment, and everything seems unfinished. It is as if an entire chapter is missing. It's not even as if he was setting it up for a sequel, although such is always a possibility these days.<br />Even with the null ending, I enjoyed The Diamond Age more than any other science fiction book in recent memory, and I look forward to Neal Stephenson's next with even more anticipation than I did for this one.	2002-12-19
1299306:US	53084041	R3M1J0CXNVFEFN	1557831572	15715601	The Reduced Shakespeare Co. presentsThe Compleat Works of Wllm Shkspr (abridged)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Good at least once	Comedy routine or inspired lunacy--whatever it is, this is the complete script of it, including the shortest &quot;Hamlet&quot; ever performed (and then done backwards for an encore), and &quot;Titus Andronicus&quot; as a cooking show. There's lots of fun between these covers for both the bardolator and the bard-hater, including a strange collection of annotations by a not-quite-so learned professor. Although some bits don't play as well on the page, it's not that long and at least you don't have to suffer through some inane laugh track.	2002-12-19
1299440:US	53084041	R1BP9CD9MU3YIL	0931580528	998488855	Wealth 101: Wealth Is Much More Than Money (The Life 101 Series)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but not McWilliams' best work	I picked this up partly because of its price--$.at the Bookworm--and partly because of my favorable impression of McWilliams from his Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do. The writing style is reminiscent of that book, but the topic--self-help for people who want more money--is more obscure, more abstract, than the treatise on libertarianism. In fact, a majority of this book would probably send most realists screaming. It's a \\"I feel good, you feel good\\" soft of namby-pamby new-age book. But, surprisingly, there is a gem of information contained herein if you can stomach the bonhominie. The sections regarding the setting of one's purpose and one's goals can be useful, as is the section regarding how one should \\"keep score\\" on their progress towards their goals.<br />If anything, this book was good for jump-starting my thinking about what I want to do with my life. I think I've gotten side-tracked in the past year, what with finally obtaining one goal (my bachelor's degree), and quickly moving through another (a better job). While I am happy to have achieved both of these goals, I have to be reminded that they are ancilliary to my purpose to become a self-sustaining writer. They may help in the long run, but I cannot rest on them. There are also several tools here that can enable one to help concentrate on goals, as well as a questionnaire to determine if the goal you have chosen is actually what you want.	2002-12-19
1299650:US	53084041	R39DAP9I1SK9SX	1563891050	632343866	6: Sandman, The: Fables & Reflections - Book VI	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fantasy/horror with a philosophical bent	I had to make a decision years ago that has more to do with finances than my critical feelings, and that decision was to give up on reading comics. Actually, I had to give up buying them, but since that was the only way I could read them, the effect was the same. As with books, I had once read comics quite indiscriminately, from the tritist superhero soap opera (okay, I'll name titles--X-Men) to the bizzarist independents (Flaming Carrot). As the prices increased, I couldn't manage to keep up with all the titles I was following, plus maintain all my other interests. Something had to give, and I selected books and music over comics because I felt that comics were the most ephemeral.<br />There were some that I hated to give up, notably Dave Sim's Cerebus. Since then, I've convinced myself that buying the &quot;collected&quot; volumes of comics isn't the same as actually following comics, but falls into the realm of books.<br />Which leads me to Neil Gaiman's Sandman, which started appearing shortly after I had made my decision. Lucky for me the collections started appearing right on the heels of the comic, so I didn't have too long of a wait to see what everyone was talking about. Gaiman's comic is like Jonathan Carroll's novels, except Gaiman is more fantastical and less real, but more abstract and philosophical. In a sense, what Gaiman is achieving in Sandman is the creation of a new mythos, but one born of ancient ideals mixed with modern concepts. Actually, come to think of it, Ovid probably was doing the same thing in his time. Comparing Gaiman to Ovid may be going too far, but then he does reinvent the Orpheus myth in this collection, so who knows?<br />While I'll never be one you can trust to pick art work, this volume does contain a story illustrated by one of my favorites, P. Craig Russell, whose ornate style works well with Gaiman's poetical flourishes. This isn't the best introduction to the characters if you&iacute;ve never met Sandman before--I've also got The Doll's House, which probably fits that bill better.Doll's House, which probably fits that bill better.	2002-12-19
1299761:US	53084041	R1JRNES5GS8EZD	0393308197	978554487	The Panda's Thumb: More Reflections in Natural History	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Evolutionary theory meets Mickey Mouse and selfish genes	The second collection of Gould's articles from Natural History continues to explore Darwin's themes and the resultant ideas since. There's several interesting essays here, including my favorite one in which the evolution of Mickey Mouse is discussed.<br />One of the essays here dealt with Richard Dawkins' controversial stand (in The Selfish Gene) on genes in which he states that a person is just a gene's way to make another gene. (This is different from normal evolutionary thought in that genes there are the subject of random variation which then is subject to the environment and tested.) Gould is not convinced by Dawkins' theory, mainly because, he says, there is no evidence that genes can be linked to specific attributes, i.e., there isn't an &quot;eye&quot; gene. Gould wrote this some years back, so it will be interesting to see if he revisits this subject now that researchers have indeed discovered the &quot;eye&quot; gene (through testing on flies).<br />Gould also covers Robert Bakker's theories about warm-blooded dinosaurs (later written up in Bakker's The Dinosaur Heresies) and the link to birds, a good essay for people to review prior to the hullabaloo that will follow Jurassic Park 2 (it's always fun to check up on an author's source material).	2002-12-19
1300178:US	53084041	R2EJIOC1ELW3LZ	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A bit more character than adventure	Number two in the Aubrey-Maturin series. No sophomore slump here; O'Brian's a master with this historical sea novel. That's not to say that O'Brian's method isn't strange. I'm not sure, but I believe that he is consciously imitating a novelistic style used in the 19th century. Of course there's the letters, which accurately depict the style of that time's correspondence, but the stylistic differences are in the descriptive text, things like strange jumps in time and character. Maybe it's a British mode of expression, for two writers who do similar \\"jumps\\" that come to my mind are Gwyneth Jones and Mary Gentle. O'Brian's speed is also slightly off--he rushes through great battle scenes that one expects to be the climatic portions of the book, then leisurely strolls through descriptions of teas and late night discussions by the fire. Coul it be that I'm yearning for more \\"adventure\\" and less \\"character\\"?<br />It is the character studies of Aubrey and Maturin that fuel the book. What happens to Jack Aubrey is important, yes, but it is how he reacts to it and how Stephen Maturin reacts to his reaction, etc., that makes these books so appealing. If I seem to yearn for more adventure, perhaps it is simply that while I enjoy what O'Brian is showing me with his characters, that I still long for the thrill of a well-told battle or escape from the enclosing walls of a conspiracy. For as much as a character novel this is, it is the historical verissimilitude and the intrigue of the day that interests a modern reader.<br />In short, they complement each other, and in this volume I felt a little extra weight over in the character side of the scale.	2002-12-18
1300308:US	53084041	R2I6CCDBMGJ67K	0553374591	231757401	Feersum Endjinn	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Not a Culture novel, but well worth your time	t doesn't matter what Banks is about--from metaphysical to mystery, science fiction to horror--he's always good. Feersum Endjinn is no exception, starting off with multiple viewpoints and plotlines that weave about each other before reaching a grand conclusion, similar to his earlier The Bridge, but within the style of adventure SF rather than metaphysical fantasy. Just because it's SF adventure, doesn't mean that it's entirely fluff--one sixthe of the book is entirely in a &quot;Riddley Walker-ish&quot; language as seen in the title (a character &quot;writes&quot; phonetically), which is difficult at times to read but is surprisingly not grating. It's just another in Banks' voluminous bag of tricks, and he pulls it off like Harry Houdini.<br />Stars are disappearing because the Encroachment--a cloud of space dust thick enough to block starlight--is slowly enveloping the solar system. Earth has lost some of its technical maturity due to complacency in the ruling bureaucracy and the departure of former generations. However, there is a computer hive-mind that exists that may have the answers to the coming crisis, if only someone knew how to access it and if the rulers would allow them to do so. As the stars flicker out, and the time to do something--anything--decreases, the characters engage in a political struggle to determine how the crisis will be met.<br />I was initially disappointed that this wasn't a &quot;Culture&quot; novel, having grown to love the philosophical fun of those books, but quickly discovered that there was much to love here as well. Feersum Endjinn has that joy of discovery that is the realm of good science fiction, wherein everything is new and different, where nothing is quite as it seems, yet everything is also very familiar. And Banks, that fine purveyor of the trick ending, decides to go for obfusication rather than chicanery, and the result is quite pleasing. Iain Banks continues his winning streak, every recent book a grand slam home run.	2002-12-18
1300508:US	53084041	R26U2009UL5TLC	0140126880	305879986	The Judas Pair (Lovejoy Mystery)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	The beginning of the collection	I finally found the first Lovejoy mystery--not that it is necessary to start reading these wonderful books here, but for the anal retentive like me who must read things in order, it's dreadfully important. The series starts off wild and wooly, too, quickly establishing both the method of Lovejoy's madness (an almost insatiable love for antiques) and his obvious mastery and gift for it. It also establishes what is to become the heart of the books, that wise-cracking attitude of Lovejoy's, direct to the reader, in which he doesn't hesitate to tell you his and the antiques world's trade secrets. Lovejoy isn't afraid to pass this info on because he knows it is of no matter-- the public (i.e, the reader, you and me) is still so dumb that even knowing how things work, we'll still be rubes.<br />For people whose only experience of Lovejoy is from the A&E series, the books may come as sort of a jolt. While some of the same characters are here, the tone and the interactions are very different (I'm reminded of the difference between Spenser: For Hire and the Parker novels). In this book, Lovejoy has a nervous breakdown, is almost burned and buried alive, and fights a duel with flintlocks in one of the most surprising endings of a mystery novel that has come along in a while (well, this was written in 1977, and I missed it then, so let's just say that it's one of the most surprising endings that I've read in a while).<br />I feel the urge upon me--read these books!--an urge that hasn't hit me in many years. It's the same urge that put me on to reading all of the Rex Stout and P.G. Wodehouse books. Lovejoy would be pleased--it's the urge of the collector.	2002-12-18
1300646:US	53084041	R8I665WKQ813N	0449224775	534679283	The Scarlet Ruse	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Better than buttered popcorn!	Number fourteen in the Travis McGee series, and I continue to devour the things like they were popcorn, even though I want to slow down and examine how MacDonald can be so amazingly readable page after page. Maybe a MacDonald novel is like light in that famous physics conundrum (Michaelson-Morley?)--to define light, one must &quot;stop&quot; it in its tracks, and then it isn't light anymore, i.e. the observation of it affects it.<br />This time McGee is trying to recover some stamps that have gotten switched for cheaper versions. Along the way McGee makes his typical observations about life and politics, adds a few more scars to his battered body, and becomes a little wiser.	2002-12-18
1300849:US	53084041	R2IIF4S31DZ0OA	0553240323	57536847	A Right to Die (Nero Wolfe)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Stout on civil rights	Written during the height of the Civil Rights movement, it shows that even the classics are sometimes a part of their times. Stout usually transcends time and place by the exacting nature of his plotting and the smooth flow of his prose. He, however, wasn't content to rest on his laurels alone (although had he done so there would have been no recriminations); Stout wasn't afraid to take on the subjects of the day, from McCarthy in the 50s to the racial biogotry displayed here. Stout realized that people were not buying a Nero Wolfe book to get a treatise on civil rights, however, and the point that he makes about it is integral to the story but is not the story itself. I think that's the difference between good fiction and didacticism. So many authors lose sight of the ultimate purpose of fiction on their way to the altar of moral rectitude. Science fiction is particularly guilty of this sin--poorly conceiled political agendas under ill-drawn alien or future societies. And the stuff that gets published is nothing compared to what you might read in a workshop. I can write this because I am guilty of this particular problem, both in stories that have seen print and ones currently in slush piles across the world. It's a beginner's mistake that even hardended professionals find hard to shake. The pressure to make art is always with us; realizing that art is something that can't be forced, that must come naturally, is never easy. Sometimes it is just best to relax and view how the masters like Stout approached the same chasm, and note how they were able to bridge it.	2002-12-18
1300910:US	53084041	R2YYVIB25Q68Z1	0786104732	126023150	Uneasy Money	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Ailing?  Try some Wodehouse medicine!	I do not regret having read all of the Wodehouse books written before this one, but I have to express my delight at finally starting to get to the books that made Wodehouse's reputation. This particular one isn't tied to any of his serieses, but shares a lot with both the Blandings castle and Bertie & Jeeves books. First off, there's Lord Dawlish, the sort of chap who is just a little too nice for his own good, the kind who always gets nipped by one and all for a fiver here or a ten-spot there. Then there's his fiancee, who's obsessed on the money deal; an eccentric wealthy old man; a couple of Americans; and a nightclub-singing Lady (as in Lord and Lady). There's money, and the lack of it, that seems to be a separate character content to flirt with all the rest of the cast. A little plot line regarding golf, keeping bees, transatlantic trips, people who may or may not be who they are, a will that may or may not be the operative one, people mistaken for themselves and others, and true love. My god, the formula is so easy, yet as any one knows who has tried a hand at this stuff, just because you've got the recipe, it doesn't mean your souffle rises in the same way.<br />This is a good one to recommend to people who have never read Wodehouse before, because it is compact and self-contained. It's been said that laughter is the best medicine--if so, then Wodehouse is a wonder drug.	2002-12-18
1300994:US	53084041	R1J654EHK2OXJD	0671747274	197641005	Preston Sturges by Preston Sturges: His Life in His Words	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Learn about the man, not about the work	The strange title and author attribution of this (auto)biography of movie writer/director Sturges is revealed in the last paragraph, and I won't give it away here. Trust me to say that this is a fascinating look into Preston Sturges' life as it is revealed by the man himself. Revealing? For example, the time spent by Sturges working on his six Hollywood classics (starting with &quot;The Great McGinty&quot; and ending with &quot;The Miracle of Morgan's Creek&quot;) are briefly covered in approximately 50 pages. Instead of concentrating his life into the three years that made him famous, Sturges spreads his story out equally to all years of his life, spending an equal amount of time on his toddlership. Fortunately, Sturges' life is interesting and by the time you arrive with him in Hollywood, you may agree with him that it's not necessarily as high a pinnacle as it may seem.<br />What you discover here is that Sturges, while a gifted writer and director, was something of a strange chap. His early life, while providing him many of the anecdotes that he would later incorporate into his movies, weren't necessarily guiding him to the silver screen. By tricks of simple fate, Sturges avoided a career as a perfumer, a broker, and an inventor.  And, before Hollywood, there was a chance that he would have stayed a playwright on Broadway. For a man with the drive for success and money, though, no place but Hollywood in those years had quite the means to deliver the goods.<br />There's a few pictures to round out the book and a nice bibliography. As a starting point to discovering more about Sturges' work, this is a great book. About that work, though, one must look elsewhere.	2002-12-18
1305714:US	53084041	RPX4XQ0Q7VWQS	1893905144	428069343	Panel Discussions: Design in Sequential Art Storytelling	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Invaluable work for the potential comic professional	There's a presumption among people that if something looks easy or simple, that it must have been easy or simple to create. Most people look at a page of a comic book and think, \\"Anyone could do that.\\" But until you actually try and write a comic or draw a comic page do you start to understand the painstaking craftsmanship that is the hallmark of most comics out there. This need to actually \\"try it out yourself,\\" is a reason why I have my students write a comic script (and also the reason for the existence of creative writing in the high school and undergraduate education). Although we are creating stories and scenes in our heads all the time, being able to translate that to the page is the difference between consumer and producer.<br />With that in mind, let me suggest for everyone who ever wanted to learn about the tricks of the comic trade to look for Panel Discussions, a series of interviews conducted by Durwin S. Talon, a professor of sequential art at the Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, Georgia. While it shares some similarities with other dissections of the comic art like Scott McCloud's Understanding Comics and Will Eisner's Sequential Art, Talon's book is slightly less formal in its structure, but makes up for that in the diversity of its points-of-view. The title itself is a pun, for not only are we discussing the panels of a comic, the format is similar to a panel discussion at a comic convention. Talon goes one-on-one with some fine artists like Will Eisner, David Mazzucchelli, and Mark Schultz, and has them break down the way they structure a comic page, how they get the reader's eye to move from point A to point B, and how light and dark play into the design.<br />Trying to read this all the way through is difficult, like hopping from room to room at a convention without taking time out for lunch or dinner. Instead, you should space this out, preferrably by reading the artist's comments, then taking the time to check out some of their work before moving on to the next. Unfortunately, that could be an expensive task unless you have a wonderful graphic novel section in your local library (don't be surprised--librarians are getting hip to the art form and they are growing collections). With that in mind, I hesitate to suggest this to the casual reader, just as I wouldn't suggest a casual novel reader to check out Umberto Eco's commentary Six Walks in the Fictional Woods. But if you want to learn more about the underpinnings of the form, this is an invaluable text. Talon and his publisher, TwoMorrows Publishing (who are filling the gap in practical comics scholarship--as opposed to academic comics scholarship--left by Fantagraphics), are to be commended, and I'm anxious to pick up some more texts by both.ork before moving on to the next. Unfortunately, that could be an expensive task unless you have a wonderful graphic novel section in your local library (don't be surprised--librarians are getting hip to the art form and they are growing collections). With that in mind, I hesitate to suggest this to the casual reader, just as I wouldn't suggest a casual novel reader to check out Umberto Eco's commentary Six Walks in the Fictional Woods. But if you want to learn more about the underpinnings of the form, this is an invaluable text. Talon and his publisher, TwoMorrows Publishing (who are filling the gap in practical comics scholarship--as opposed to academic comics scholarship--left by Fantagraphics), are to be commended, and I'm anxious to pick up some more texts by both.	2002-12-13
1306332:US	53084041	R10VAYLBHNBBVW	0765303884	96820989	White Apples	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Carroll's latest metamorphis seems incomplete	White Apples is the beginning of a new trilogy from Carroll, and with new beginnings he's decided to modify his modus operandi from previous novels. To start with, gone is the first-person, unreliable male narrator; in its place is a third-person omniscient voice that is both strangly familiar and disconcerting. I hesitate to call it Carroll's true voice, because he's shown in previous novels that he can take on differing personas convincingly, and the voice is still filtered here through the impressions of the characters. However, instead of only getting into the thoughts of the primary character lost in Carroll's latest version of Wonderland, this time you get to understand the motivations of three: the male lead, Vincent Ettrich, &quot;a genial philanderer&quot; (as the dust jacket copy labels him); Isabelle, his true love; and Coco Hallis, his guardian angel.<br />That's the other thing that's different about this new novel. Most of Carroll's novels have something strange and weird about them--the common way I introduce his work to people is to say that it would be labeled magic realism if his last name had been of the Spanish origin. Before White Apples, however, the typical Carroll started off in a world much like our own and only started to look weird halfway through the book when the dog sleeping on the bed starts talking or two characters realize that they share the same dreamworld. In this new novel, Carroll drops us down the rabbit hole in the first chapter when we learn that Vincent is actually dead. Or has died, and now is back, but not in the sense that he was legally dead and the paramedics restarted his heart, but in the Monty Python sense of he had kicked the bucket and was pushing up daisies, and now he's walking his old haunts. No one knows the difference, except for his friend Bruno Mann, but that's because Bruno's dead himself.<br />It only gets weirder from that.<br />Carroll's strength is never in the weirdnesses, although every one of his books contains a major element of the fantastic. Instead, Carroll's best writing centers around those integral and important details that make up characters and relationships. I consider the first third of Bones of the Moon to be the best love story I've ever read and think it would have not been out of place had it appeared in The New Yorker. There's no fantasy anywhere in it, either, except the wonder that such a love could ever grow between two people. In White Apples, the reader never gets to see those important details between Vincent and Isabelle, and must instead learn about their character and relationship from the things they tell each other and awkward flackback sequences. In the world of creative writing workshops, we would consider this &quot;telling, and not showing,&quot; except that Carroll's an accomplished storyteller and doesn't linger on the telling for that long. If this is your first taste of Carroll, you might not even notice it, but for those fans, it provides enough of a twist to the tale that it is every bit as off-putting as the Twilight Zone cliffhangers at the end of each chapter here.<br />I don't want to give the impression that I didn't like this book. I read it with the same fervor that I reserve for only a few authors (Carroll, Pat Cadigan, Iain Banks, and, recently, J.K. Rowling). But something nagged at me constantly, and I think it was the assumption that the relationship between Vincent and Isabelle was love, beautiful and strong. My suspension of disbelief didn't have any trouble with Vincent back from the dead, but I could never get over the precious way that Vincent and Isabelle reflected on their past. It was like listening to a couple baby-talk with each other thinking that you would hear their words as endearing and not sophomoric.<br />This is supposedly the first book of a Joyce Cary-like trilogy, where this was from the viewpoint of the man, the next will be from the viewpoint of a woman, and the third from a child. Havingheard Carroll read the first chapter of the new book during his recent U.S. tour, I'm already excited by it, and it should be interesting to see how well he gets into the female viewpoint--the sections in White Apples give us a just a taste of that. That first chapter is weirder than anything in this book, and perhaps that is what Carroll is heading to: a book that shows us that normal is really the fantasy, the fantastic.heard Carroll read the first chapter of the new book during his recent U.S. tour, I'm already excited by it, and it should be interesting to see how well he gets into the female viewpoint--the sections in White Apples give us a just a taste of that. That first chapter is weirder than anything in this book, and perhaps that is what Carroll is heading to: a book that shows us that normal is really the fantasy, the fantastic.	2002-12-13
1356243:US	53084041	R280MJZYC6IWIK	0312033095	818145314	The First 20 Years of Monty Python	Books	3	1	1	N	N	One for the completists among us (this means you)	This had been on my &quot;To Read&quot; shelf since 1990 (I know because I was using the sales receipt as a bookmark). A biased, glowing look at the Pythons, it is full of useless but amusing trivia, which is exactly what Python fanatics like myself buy these books for. As a history, it's nowhere near the level of Hill and Weingard's Saturday Night (a look at the making of Saturday Night Live and its myriad cast members), but as histories of the series goes, it's about as good as it gets. There's also a complete vid/bib/discography in the back for those completists out there.	2002-10-31
1356288:US	53084041	R2VHKXXKLNL41R	0446677914	361621952	The Mexican Tree Duck	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not necessarily a triumphant return...	Longtime readers of my comments may remember the previous Crumley that I read, The Muddy Fork and Other Tales, which was a collection of essays, interview, short stories, and unfinished novels. In my comments, I said that I would prefer the finished work. Lo and behold, here is one of those unfinished novels present and complete.<br />C.W. Sughrue from The Last Good Kiss is back, and hasn't really changed. That's part of the problem with PI and detective novels. In most novels, the lead character is expected to change-- it's one of those things they teach you in writing workshops. In fact, the Star Trek folks have managed to pin it down to two words: character arc. While it is horribly abused in Star Trek (it would probably make a great drinking game--first, identify the character who will \\"change\\" before the end of the episode, and then identify the \\"change.\\" I put change in quotes, because in Star Trek the arc is only good for one episode--by the time the next episode comes around, the character seems to have forgotten their life changing episode. [Okay, I'm not being fair, there are exceptions.]), it is a \\"formula\\" that much great fiction follows--except the mystery genre (oh, all right, I'm pontificating. I know SF and romance has a tradition of not following it either, but I'm working a different argument at the moment.). I admire the work of Rex Stout, but it isn't character growth that brings me back. Nero and Archie are roughly the same in a book that Stout wrote in the 50s as they are in the 70s. Just as in some SF, where the readers return time and again to the same \\"world\\" (say, McCaffrey's Pern), readers return to the characters of Holmes, Miss Marple, and Perry Mason. When mystery writers stray from this prediliction, as James Ellroy did in The Black Dahlia and as Crumley did in The Last Good Kiss, the result is often quite pleasurable and breathtaking.<br />So it is with trepidation that I approached a novel in which Sughrue takes the stage once again. My fear proved true: this isn't a great novel like The Last Good Kiss. It's not bad, but it ain't got that same sort of swing. Sughrue continues his worldly self-destruction, and Crumley mixes in some wonderful Vietnam vet knowledge, but the centre does not hold. Crumely is still a wonderful writer, and while the plot may not be sliced bread, some of the descriptions are certainly tasty enough to be eaten and enjoyed.My fear proved true: this isn't a great novel like The Last Good Kiss. It's not bad, but it ain't got that same sort of swing. Sughrue continues his worldly self-destruction, and Crumley mixes in some wonderful Vietnam vet knowledge, but the centre does not hold. Crumely is still a wonderful writer, and while the plot may not be sliced bread, some of the descriptions are certainly tasty enough to be eaten and enjoyed.	2002-10-31
1356297:US	53084041	R1TWR641TOWD10	0679727140	71657919	In Trouble Again: A Journey Between Orinoco and the Amazon	Books	4	28	29	N	N	I would only armchair travel with O'Hanlon	I wouldn't travel with Redmond O'Hanlon personally, although I'm quite happy to be a vicarious companion. And judging from O'Hanlon's opener here--where he tries to find someone to accompany him in his latest foray--it seem that my opinion is shared by O'Hanlon's friends. Except for one--who is shown to be under a mistaken impression about what a jaunt down the Amazon is like, not to mention having Redmond O'Hanlon planning the trip.<br />The title aptly describes the action. If you read O'Hanlon's Into the Heart of Borneo, this book follows without nary a break. While it doesn't have quite the originality of the first book, it doesn't fail to fulfill the promise of that book either. O'Hanlon's a little bit wiser, but still as trusting and stubborn. He presses on in circum- stances where most would have turned around--things like the fiercest tribe of natives in the world, torrential rainfall (not to be trifled with, especially on a river), and rapids in which he is dumped and unable to escape until a mile or so down river.<br />The best thing about O'Hanlon--although the amazing trips he takes are worthwhile in and of themselves--is the companions that he does manage to take. I'm not talking about the physical companions, who do provide humorous interludes, but the ones that are to be found in the books--the explorers who have traveled this route before. Rather than just supplying a bibliography, O'Hanlon uses them to annotate his own trip. An adventurer and a scholar, O'Hanlon's one of the best.	2002-10-31
1356442:US	53084041	R3EK78JNDE7YPY	0140153810	877492561	The Friendly Guide to the Universe: A Down-to-Earth Tour of Space, Time, and the Wonders of theCosmos (The Friendly Shakespeare)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Easy-to-understand and informative	I picked this one up on the strength of the previous &quot;Friendly Guide&quot; (The Friendly Guide to Shakespeare), and was not disappointed. While Hathaway's book is ostensibly about the universe, and does contain quite a bit of information about the subject, a better description might be &quot;Lives of the Astronomers.&quot; From Copernicus to Hawking, Hathaway tours the universe by taking a time trip through the many advances of astronomy. Like the guide to Shakespeare, the chapters are short, and sidebars abound. I spent about three months working my way through the book, reading a section or two a night. While it isn't a substitute for Astronomy 301 (the math quotient was thankfully low), this is a nice book for those of us who like to know a little about a lot.	2002-10-31
1356445:US	53084041	RCM5EX2GJEX6C	1857232658	345013390	Faust Among Equals	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I'm going to Eurobosch!	Almost back to his original stride, this is probably the Holt that I've enjoyed the most in the last five books. That enjoyment can also be summarized in one word: Eurobosch. Yes, following DisneyWorld, the MGM Grand Theme Park, Atlantic City, and Cyberia, the most famous theme park in all of history is now open for business. Based on that mad genious Hieronymous Bosch and his most famous work, &quot;The Garden of Earthly Delights,&quot; and operated by the holding company of Beelzebub, et al. You don't have to take the painting and imagine what thrilling rides and attractions are available--Holt has it down.<br />That's just a part of the book, though. The plot concerns a certain George Faustus who has managed to effect an escape from Hell, right during an impending audit. Now that Hell's operated as a business-- once you start reinventing government, it was inevitable--the loss of a major asset can't be tolerated, and the chase is on.<br />The good parts here are equal to his previous best, parts like Helen of Troy being a lovely and perfect little woman with a slight penchant for decorating. In the time of Homer, that couldn't amount to much (what? a curtain over the castle window?), but with centuries of design to choose from.... And Leonardo da Vinci--wasn't he just the greatest geek that ever lived? And that's only a couple of the strange yet amusing additions to the lives of historical and fictional personages in the story.	2002-10-31
1356507:US	53084041	R174C3UGZ2H663	067972026X	857223161	A Wolverine Is Eating My Leg	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A great collection of near travel disasters	This is an excellent collection of thoughts and comments on the sheer edge of adventure. Cahill knows exactly how to describe the amazing stupidity of some of these adventure sports in a way that still leaves you interested in participating. Like his previous collection, Jaquars Ripped My Flesh, this book covers the gamut in place and sport, from extreme skiing in Montana to whitewater rafting in India. And while Cahill is a master at adventure writing, when he turns his pen to describing the cultures of some of the more exotic places that he has visited and the difference between their culture and our's, he's both hilarious and profound. This book is a selection of the Vintage Departures series, a group of books that I have found to be uniformly excellent.	2002-10-31
1356514:US	53084041	R34V10DLCSXINI	0201567512	307953077	Great Mambo Chicken And The Transhuman Condition: Science Slightly Over The Edge	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Weird and wacky science	Here's a thought: the problem with teaching non-fiction in schools is that as a culture we value story, even it its most cliched forms, over memorization. The great wave of edutainment hitting us now is trying to meet this need, merging story (the \\"Mario\\" adventure, in a nutshell, is a fairy tale in which it's man, or plumber as the case may be, vs. nature, albeit a very twisted view of nature, to rescue his true love) with facts. While the grooters are tied to the tube wonking on flying turtles, they have to solve puzzles that actually contain meaning.<br />Story and facts have been merged into one for years. There's some speculation that the Bible was preserved to retain warnings for behavior (food choices, ethics), while histories are basically the story of the past written by the winners. Today we get our non-fiction in a multitude of forms, but I have to admit that I prefer a well-done story version as in Sterling's The Hacker Crackdown and here in Ed Regis' take on wacky (but plausible) science.<br />Regis' idea on science goes something like this: there's always been science that people thought a little strange if not laughable (tiny living organisms that carry disease?), so what's the current wacky science, is it really plausible and why, and where's it heading. But he tells us this through the lives of the scientists (and I may be using that term loosely for some of these people). People like Eric Drexler (nanotechnology), Hans Moravec (downloading brains), Dave Criswell (stars for energy), and Michael Darwin (cryogenics). What they have in common with each other and such people as Robert Heinlein, Timothy Leary, Evil Knieval, and Richard Feynman illustrates the heady stuff of science on the edge. If at times it seems science fictional, then that's probably because SF writers make it their job to keep up with fringe elements such as these.	2002-10-31
1356576:US	53084041	RL6XS9LK4186P	0671756443	239869492	The Neon Rain (A Dave Robicheaux Novel)	Books	2	11	20	N	N	More graphic than I expected	I've been holding onto this book for awhile, having bought it on the recommendation of Doug and Tomi Lewis at the Little Bookshop of Horrors in Denver. I'd been interested in Burke's novels based on his critical reputation and evocative titles, but had hesitated to start another mystery series when I was having so much trouble getting throught the ones I had started years ago. But then Burke visited the Bookshop on a signing tour, and Doug and Tomi convinced me to give him a try.<br />Dave Robicheaux is a New Orlean's detective who's got two problems. One, a man on death row tells him that he's marked for death, and, two, he's worried about what this floater he found in an east side bayou might mean. Along the way, he discovers that the time problems are not as separate as they might seem. The writing is good, but the plot is steamier and more graphic than I had expected. The brutality in the book matches Burke's style, but was surprising coming from what I had thought the book would be based on the critical comments that I had read.<br />The most intriguing aspect of this book was the handling of Robicheaux's alcoholism. This is a modern detective novel, tough but not in the unrealistic hard-boiled style. Robicheaux's drinking problem is a living thing--not a static bit used to \\"develop\\" the character and only ends up being paint on the cardboard cut out. Robicheaux's problem is as much of a dynamic as himself, or, to put it better, is a reflection of his own dynamic personality.	2002-10-31
1362358:US	53084041	R1HOL8CEJE9DY7	0140386645	374123609	The Westing Game	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A nicely done young adult mystery	Dan Price suggested this title to me after reading earlier comments on children's books and my penchant for games. An excellent suggestion it was, too, and one I shall pass on. This is a \\"young adult\\" book, which I gather means that it has no pretensions of New York Times Book Review status, because if we judge it on its merits, it is quite sophisticated and well-written. Ostensibly a mystery, it centers around the tenants of one high-rise apartment complex and the death of the town's paper products entrepreneur, Samual W. Westing, who has selected those tenants as his heirs--with a catch. First, they must play the last Westing game.<br />Like The Egypt Game (commented on here recently), the book concerns the game of its title, but is actually about the players. While one can read The Westing Game for the puzzle, it is much more rewarding as a study of what happens to people joined together in a strange situation. Interesting for adults as well as children, I can't see why you shouldn't try it.	2002-10-26
1362734:US	53084041	R37MIYNI973RK2	1857231910	712818662	Grailblazers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Back in form!	I'm glad I didn't give up on Holt. Although this isn't his best (I'd probably pick Goatsong for that distinction, with Expecting Someone Taller close by), it's a far cry better than the mixed-up hodge-podge that marked Here Comes the Sun and Overtime. Holt's back to formula here, and maybe that's why it works; in this one, a knight from the Arthurian Age is awakened to take charge of the order of the Knights of the Holy Grail. First, he's got to get the rest of the order interested in the quest again, because they have gotten tired of it and become pizza delivery drivers and would-be West End actors.<br />Holt also plays with largely literary characters here a la Kim Newman or Howard Waldrop. His revisionist history of the jolly old man in the red suit is a special lark, as is his take on Lyonnesse. Well-read fantasy readers (and by that I mean the classics, not the modern stuff) will probably get a lot more out of Holt's allusion play in this regard than I did. In fact, I felt like I was rereading Myers Myers' Silverlock at times because of that distressing feeling that I should know this character, and yet couldn't place it.<br />Unfortunately, Holt's still jumping all over the place in telling the story. Multiple points of view and quick cuts, as I described for his last two books, take a toll on the reader here as well. As I said before, pyrotechnics are fine when one is sure that they aren't standing in the middle of the firing field. Er, that is to say, it takes a stable base to get away with double-back somersaults.	2002-10-26
1362851:US	53084041	R2RWSL4DMN730I	0156787334	891560072	A Room of One's Own	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Still applicable today for a number of artistic endeavors...	This is the first of three books of Jill's that I read recently. Since I was planning to hand her A.S. Byatt's Possession (my pick for the best book that I read in 1993), she felt that it would take three books to make an equivalent trade, and I agreed to the terms.<br />I had seen part of a dramatization of this essay once, and had heard many references to this work, so it was about time that I read it for myself (one of these days I'll pick up Heart of Darkness in the same vein). I'm happy to have done so, for now I understand where Shakespeare's sister and Chloe likes Olivia falls into the scheme of the argument. It's nice to note that the state of women's writing has improved tremendously since this was originally presented. As a man, I like to see this same argument now as genderless--that is, the room and the money that one needs to support oneself is necessary to any writer, no matter what gender.	2002-10-26
1363086:US	53084041	R3DMFM6O5U92N4	055327886X	779432511	Rubyfruit Jungle	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A window into another kind of life	I picked up this one on the recommendation of my wife and after reading Rita Mae Brown's writer's manual.  I wanted to see how she had put into practice what she was preaching.<br />Jill had said that it read like a first novel, and it does, but that's not to take away anything from it. Like most first novels, there is a certain exuberance here that is sometimes muted or even lost in the works of more mature authors. There's also a refreshing sense of difference here--this is a novel written by someone whom you've never met before (that is, at the time of publication), and who is baring herself for the first time. And bare all, Brown does. Like some first novels, it feels highly autobiographical, as if Brown was saying my life is something like this, only not quite as exciting, so I'll liven it up in prose. Along the way is a fun time.<br />What makes this unique among other first novels in that autobiographical sense si that Rubyfruit Jungle is about a lesbian. But to describe it that way is to stereotype it. Perhaps more applicable is that Rubyfruit Jungle is a novel about the life of a woman who turns out to be a filmmaker, except that wouldn't be accurate enough either. The lesbian connection has to be mentioned because that's where the conflict arises in the book (along with the examination of a certain amount of sexism). While I found it hard to agree with a basic tenet expressed in the book--that sex between two woemn is inherently more intense than that between the opposite sexes--I nevertheless enjoyed the view of life from an entirely different angle.<br />Brown went on to write both mysteries and \\"mainstream\\" stories that have been more popular, but this first book stays in print for a reason: sometimes the things you slip when you're unsure of yourself (or unselfconscious) are more powerful than the heavily edited work.	2002-10-26
1363143:US	53084041	R17YL2CS6YWK24	0385303327	25497174	Alternate Oscars	Books	4	1	14	N	N	Awaken YOUR interest in movies	I have never been a big fan of movies, or even television for that matter. When I was young, I didn't express it in quite so haughty a way, possibly because I was jealous and wished that I could watch the Banana Splits like everyone else. An actual movie required a car trip of ten minutes because the small town we lived in didn't have a theater; so it wasn't just the matter of begging the admission price. Books didn't really fulfill the entire need when I was young, either. I think most people need some sort of visual stimulation. Since TV and movies were unavailable, I turned to comics and \\"interactive\\" play (i.e., that running around with other kids in the neighborhood rather than being glued to the telly).<br />I can remember seeing movies as a kid, mainly because I can probably list them with 80% accuracy and completeness. The first one I remember was Love Story (which, as some would say, probably has something to do with my dislike for movies as well). My mother says that we saw Bambi earlier, but I just don't recall it. I recall a B-grade horror flick that I saw with my brother in the early 70s. I think it starred Doug McClure, and it was based around the Sargasso Sea (I still get the willies when thinking about some kind of trapdoor and a squid-like thing). Then there's Star Wars, which I remember seeing clips for on a local broadcast noon TV show, and which my brother and I had to see in the first week of screening based on that clip. In fact, I guess I went to movies with my brother a lot (mom was probably trying to get rid of us at the same time, as well as it just being easier logistically). Jaws II, Smokey and the Bandit (I remember the whole family went to that one), Cannonball Run, and Dirty Harry. We saw the popular stuff; my parents were not fans of movies or TV as well, but could be convinced every once and a while.<br />In high school, the town we moved to had a theater (actually a combination drive-in and walk-in), but because I had moved there \\"later\\" than most, I felt apart from the other kids in town, and so I never really \\"hung-out\\" at the movies like the majority of my classmates. What films I did see remained the more popular kind: E.T., Superman, Risky Business, the Star Wars sequels, the Star Trek movies. The only brief glimmer of hope in those days was the extraordinary effort I went to in order to see Monty Python and the Holy Grail.<br />So it wasn't until I went to college that I discovered the movies could be more than entertainment. But I never \\"fell\\" for movies like some people (reference Harlan Ellison's introduction to his collection of essays on media, Harlan Ellison's Watching). I was learning that books, which I had read up till now for their entertainment value also, could be more than simply entertainment as well, and that seemed much more exciting for me to explore.<br />You would think that after moving to L.A., I couldn't help but get more into movies. It is, of course, the movie capitol of the world. But L.A. is a city of facades. Just like the always balmy summer days they foist off as the truth in TV and movies hides the fact that L.A. has something like 90% smog-filled days, so is the movie culture hidden beneath the physical monument of the studios. I went to one \\"special\\" screening while in L.A., for the movie Soapdish. Nice performances by Kevin Kline and Sally Field, but nothing substantial.<br />Colorado? Even though I was back in a college town, movies weren't something I hungered for, or even looked forward to. But here I am, in Radville, Washington, and, frankly, we're bored stiff out here. You'd think that I'd get more reading done, but the absence of other culture makes reading feel monotonous. There is one bright shining light--Battelle's employees started a film club years back, and it's still going strong. This past year's most popular feature was Like Water for Chocolate, which the Film Club sold out in three different showings, and which prompted the local discounttheater to book it for a couple of weeks. Through the Film Club I've seen some movies that I can tell will be favorites for times to come (The Palm Beach Story, Strictly Ballroom, and Roger and Me), as well as films that are helping to fill in the gaps of my video eduction (La Dolce Vita), and modern foreign-language films such as Raise the Red Lantern and Europa Europa.<br />What does all that have to do with Danny Peary's Alternate Oscars? It should explain why, after all these years, I'm suddenly interested in film, and, specifically, the history of the medium. Peary's book provides that history in excellent page-long essays, as well as catching me up on the critical classics of the medium. Perhaps not its intended use, but that's the thing with art--once it is finished, it rarely remains the artist's.theater to book it for a couple of weeks. Through the Film Club I've seen some movies that I can tell will be favorites for times to come (The Palm Beach Story, Strictly Ballroom, and Roger and Me), as well as films that are helping to fill in the gaps of my video eduction (La Dolce Vita), and modern foreign-language films such as Raise the Red Lantern and Europa Europa.<br />What does all that have to do with Danny Peary's Alternate Oscars? It should explain why, after all these years, I'm suddenly interested in film, and, specifically, the history of the medium. Peary's book provides that history in excellent page-long essays, as well as catching me up on the critical classics of the medium. Perhaps not its intended use, but that's the thing with art--once it is finished, it rarely remains the artist's.	2002-10-26
1363144:US	53084041	R1YZLAG5AMC65M	0688052843	487865803	Only Begotten Daughter	Books	5	14	14	N	N	the best satire has a bite that you can feel deep within you	What I like about James Morrow is his audaciousness. He's willing to come up with an idea in the grand old SF tradition, i.e., BIG, and then run with it. Take \\"Daughter Earth,\\" a story in which a planet is born to a nice northeast couple, or \\"City of Truth,\\" a story about a city where no one ever lies. Or here in this novel, in which a new saviour is sent to the world, but it's a girl this time. From immaculate conception--she evolves from her jewish father's sperm donation--to being tested by the devil at an Atlantic City casino modeled after Dante's Hell, Morrow keeps throwing the wild concepts and ideas at you straight out of left field. And what ostensibly seems a fantasy--God's daughter and all--yet still has some of the trappings of SF and reality; she is born using an artificial womb, when she returns to earth New Jersey has become a totalitarian, evangelistic state that is a cross of Heinlein's Revolt in 2010 and King's The Running Man.<br />While for some it was the ending here that they remember (I won't spoil it), for me the best part was when God's only begotten daughter meets God's only begotten son and explained what had happened on earth after his departure. \\"They eat me,\\" he says, referring to the Eucharist. \\"Disgusting.\\"<br />Jill says that if you were of the total God-fearing type, then you would probably be offended by this book. She feels that an aethiest wouldn't like it much either, for as much as it \\"blasphemes,\\" it comes out fairly spiritual. For those of us who can stand having religion poked at (like, at least Morrow wasn't targeted by the Pope for assassination following the printing of this book), it's a bunch of laughs among some interesting theological play.	2002-10-26
1364563:US	53084041	R1DESYZIV329G8	0380816555	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Impractical for anything but laughing yourself silly	The jacket copy on this first novel says that it has already been &quot;bought by Hollywood Pictures for Disney Studios.&quot; Which doesn't necessarily mean that you'll see a movie of this anytime soon, given Hollywood's tendancy to buy more than they produce. But it is interesting to think of Disney making a film in which a Demon eats people. Again, that isn't to say that this wouldn't make a good film, although I thought the best aspects here were things that wouldn't translate well. There is, however, a good book here.<br />Travis O'Hearn is a young (in features) man with a problem--back in the early 1900s he accidentally summoned a demon and he can't get rid of it. The real catch--or should I say, Catch, for that is the demon's name--is that the demon feels the same way about Travis. What the demon would really like is a master that would let him do some real damage. There's also a small town that's about to meet these two in an intimate way, and your &quot;wild card&quot; player, who's something like a djinn.<br />The way Moore intermixes myth and characters in this story is akin to James P. Blaylock's The Last Coin, yet with a touch less style. That is, Moore's got the plot, characters, and humor down, but he can't match Blaylock's literary wordsmithing. This is only his first novel, remember, and he could very well gain that style as he matures as a writer. There's some clever literary in-jokes here for the horror fan, nicely done so that the non-fan won't be left scratching their head. Definately a delight.	2002-10-24
1364944:US	53084041	R35L55T4TGN3I8	0140050353	99837743	Something Fresh: A Blandings Story	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Blandings Castle is never bland nor dull!	This is the first Blandings Castle novel, and the first novel in what we now think as the true P.G. Wodehouse style. For the first time, the interplay between absent-minded peers, quick-to-anger relatives and friends, and those amazing good-natured yet good-for-nothing younger sons come together in a comic dance of quick assumptions, identity switches, flirts with embarrassment, and, oh yes, love.<br />If Wodehouse wasn't so widely admired by the critics, I would have to claim him as a guilty pleasure. Although I can quote style and form with the best of them, the real truth is that I read Wodehouse because he amuses. In Wodehouse's hands, the sly wink equals the over-the-top exaggeration, and only one will work in the place that he puts it.<br />I tried to slow my reading speed down on this book, to gain an understanding of the flow and the way the language worked. I failed miserably--before I realized it, I was caught up once again in the action of the story and I wasn't observing but enjoying. I'm thinking that to truly study a novel, I am going to have to force myself to retype it.	2002-10-24
1365079:US	53084041	R1G3UBZXAI3YGK	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	If you like your detectives with a smart mouth...	I like smart-aleck detectives. People like Sue Grafton's Kinsey Milhone, Rex Stout's Archie Goodwin, Robert Parker's Spenser, and Robert Crais' Elvis Cole. As you probably can tell from seeing my reading list, I'm pretty much a sucker for humor in any of its manifestations (okay, maybe not puns). Crais' style is close to Parker, yet Crais' competant detective doesn't have the macho baggage that Spenser carries. (To digress, that macho baggage is actually what marks the Spenser books above the crowd, as Parker forces he \\"independent, macho cowboy\\" type to interact with the modern, touchy-feely world. You can bet that Spenser is a \\"sensitive, new age guy.\\") Cole may not be as macho as Spenser, but he is still fearless--he is a Vietnam vet, after all--but most of the strong, silent type of detective stuff is handled by the secretive partner, Joe Pike, while Cole gets to zing all those one-liners with abandon at anyone who crosses his threshold.<br />The mystery here is one that Parker would have taken to as well. Cole is hired by a wealthy businessman to retrieve on of the last remaining copies of the Hagakure, the book that defines Japanese feudal culture. Along the way, we get to meet the Yakuza (Japan's version of the mafia), some serious dysfunctional families, a cult, and thow in a bit of true love and a nice look at ethics, and you've got a Spenser novel (if you replaced Cole with Spenser and Pike with Hawk).(...)	2002-10-24
1365239:US	53084041	R1DCDD4J3VTNHP	0394815009	595713080	The Phantom Tollbooth	Books	2	12	30	N	N	Read it when you're young	I think the buildup that I got for this book was too high to allow me to enjoy it fully. Had I not read the voluminous streams of unabashed praise from r.a.b.bers (that is the rabble that inhabits rec.arts.books) as well as recommendations from my First Impressions subscribers, I might have been pleasantly surprised by this book. As it was, I read it with an uncommonly sharp critical eye, thinking \\"it can't be that good,\\" and unfortunately the book wasn't able to overcome my, admitedly, unreasonable bias.<br />Milo is just your average kid that receives a magic tollbooth in the mail and then proceeds to discover how to view the world differently by saving a magic kingdom. Hmmm, a few shades of Narnia? Yes, but no. Juster loves wordplay, and, while I admit some of it is incredibly clever, he tends to sacrifice story for puns. The disjointed movement between \\"scenes\\" reminded me of another clever book of wordplay, Silverlock (in which the wordplay is allusions rather than puns), in that Juster moves the characters to different realms solely to pun more rather than a smooth movement of characters to their goal. The book becomes almost dull in the areas between encounters, and definitely feels segmented.<br />But, to return to my beginning, I'm probably being unfair. I cannot say that The Phantom Tollbooth isn't clever, and some of the bits are simply wonderful, like the Island of Conclusions (you get there by jumping). I would have thought the wordplay would be too esoteric for kids, but given this book's popularity, I think I'm selling youth short.<br />If you haven't read this, you probably should. Perhaps my unfavorable tone will cancel some of the more shameless paeons for it, and you will be able to evaluate it without bias.	2002-10-24
1365635:US	53084041	R3N6A9PF32RIRV	0140230149	61496558	Gold by Gemini (Lovejoy Mystery)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	It's the language and the situations, not the plot	Jill and I visited a small furniture store in Yakima in 1994. We were looking to buy a new \\"dining room\\" table to replace the serviceable, yet aging un-gracefully.  We had about given up on finding one that would match the whitewashed cabinets in our kitchen until we stumbled into this store. We found the perfect table--not too large, well-done hardwood (ash) construction, simple design features, and hand-made. The price...well, not cheap, but given the tables that we had looked at elsewhere and their cost, this one will be well worth it.<br />The reason I bring it up, however, is to recall the salesman, who made the experience even more special. I've worked in a customer relations capacity before, and I know how difficult it is, as well as how rewarding it can be for both sides of the fence, as servicer and servicee. I especially like to be able to get to know someone, to be able to trust their opinions or to have my opinions trusted. This fellow more than met my assessment--he wasn't pushy, yet he knew we were there to get a table. He knew that we had found what we were looking for, yet he wasn't determined to get a check from us on that day. Part of this is from his knowledge that his stock held up against any other dealer's stock, but mostly because he knew that we were looking for something in particular, and if he didn't have it, nothing he could do would change our minds, yet if he had it, that we would be back to buy it. Such a basic understanding of how people think that is slowly being eroded today because of assembly-line manufacturing and selling.<br />This salesman reminded me of Lovejoy, and Lovejoy reminded me of him. Part of it was his knowledge. The store had been opened by his parents in 1948. The salesman himself had received a design degree in college, and worked for years in Seattle at furniture stores there before returning home to Yakima to take on the family store when his parents retired. He could rattle off the furniture styles and manufacturers with abandon, knowing quality, yet also realizing that one person's treasure is another's horror. You could tell the man enjoyed his profession.<br />Which doesn't say a lot about the book, does it--but it does say a lot about the Lovejoy character. Although Lovejoy novels are sold as mysteries (and have some mystery elements), I read them for the language and the comedy. There's plenty here.turers with abandon, knowing quality, yet also realizing that one person's treasure is another's horror. You could tell the man enjoyed his profession.<br />Which doesn't say a lot about the book, does it--but it does say a lot about the Lovejoy character. Although Lovejoy novels are sold as mysteries (and have some mystery elements), I read them for the language and the comedy. There's plenty here.	2002-10-24
1365917:US	53084041	RIAT7NBE0JSOB	0553561162	693343000	Scissors Cut Paper Wrap Stone	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Interesting, but not very original	This is the J.G. Ballard version of Count Zero, or maybe it's the Ballard condensed Snow Crash, which is to say that McDonald continues in his tradition of writing in the style of another writer while sampling the plot and characters of yet another. His publisher should make more of this: IAN MCDONALD--the best science fiction rapper! In this one, lead character Ethan Ring is a Molly-like (from Neuromancer) freelancer who is on a pilgrimmage to try and recover his lost &quot;soul,&quot; taken from him when he became a tool of the EC. This is latter-day cyberpunk, where the computer revolution has once again become a thing of fear rather than the power of freedom that was implied in the early days of the subgenre. McDonald also takes a page from Sterling by mixing in an incredible post-political world that isn't all that unbelievable.<br />What struck me most about the book was the Ballardesque nature of it. McDonald's always been enamoured of style, and as style in SF goes, Ballard is somewhere between the high priest and the holy ghost. McDonald uses the quick flips between scenes, the sentence fragments that contain only the most important nouns and verbs, and paring down the plot so that the book contains only the most important scenes and actions, the in-between bits to be filled in by the reader's imagination. However, a true Ballard pastiche would have been only 13 pages rather than the 130 here (see Brian Aldiss' recent Ballardesque &quot;FOAM&quot;). McDonald hasn't given up totally on the idea that a story is told in length. SCPWS is not bad, but still not the startingly original novel that I'm expecting one of these days from McDonald.	2002-10-23
1366296:US	53084041	R31E9CHHSEODAM	0825672759	882598641	P.G. Wodehouse: A Portrait of a Master	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Portrait of the Artist by a Fan	Although I've fallen off a bit on my drive to read all the Wodehouse ouvre in order, I can feel my juices beginning to bubble up about it again after reading this delightful biography of the master. I don't know what to think of Jasen as a biographer--I tend to believe that he's a poor one from the showing on this book, as he tends to simply list events in Plum's life, interspersed with excerpreted letters by and to Plum. And Jasen makes no bones that his book is an unbiased study of Wodehouse, from the subtitle to the treatment. On the other hand, I don't konw how you could treat Wodehouse in any other way, for he truly had lost any malicious bone in his body at approximately the age of 25, as if mean-spiritedness was a baby-tooth that one lost and promptly forgot about.<br />I bought this book years ago for its secondary bibliography, listing all the stories and books. With something roughly like 90 books to his credit, sometimes with similar titles between novels, different titles for American or British publication, and all eminently re-readable, it's quite a chore to keep them straight in one's mind. With an accurate list at hand, the only problem is finding the damn things.<br />I believe Frances Donaldson has written a more traditional biography (did I read it back when I first discovered Wodehouse in the stacks at the University of Texas?), which I should acquire and judge against Jasen.	2002-10-23
1366670:US	53084041	R3HPAU4VLRLXK1	0688099793	909476788	The Jungle Book (Books of Wonder)	Books	4	3	21	N	N	Not as marred in adaptation as others	While I admire Disney's animation (and am looking forward to their Hamlet-ish The Lion King), I usually gripe about the changes they make in their movies from their source material. All one has to do is read the original Pinocchio, Peter Pan, or, supposedly, Bambi, to berate them for destroying classics. I probably should be bothered as well by their Jungle Book, except that I think that it was one of the cases where the marriage of animation, story and music achieves more than the original. Without the source material, it would be nothing, of course, but the wonderful songs (who can forget \\"Bare Necessities,\\" \\"Trust in Me,\\" or \\"I Wanna Be Like You\\"?) and the structure that turned Kipling's short tales into a two-hour movie create a gestalt that I'm not sure Kipling's tales do by themselves. This is probably sacrilege to the ears of the true Kipling fan, but I'm nothing if not opinionated.<br />The stories that make up the Jungle Book aren't solely about Mowgli, though, and it's the others, especially \\"Rikki-Tikki-Tavi,\\" that make this a definate must have.	2002-10-23
1366909:US	53084041	R3V621W4PV6VWV	0385468415	489747342	FROM THE TEETH OF ANGELS	Books	4	9	13	N	N	What if you could ask a question of Death?	Long time readers of my commentaries know of my fondness for Jonathan Carroll. He's one of the authors who I try to collect in first edition hardbacks, and I've even written an article in which I attempted to critically assay his entire ouvre. So when I say I enjoyed Carroll's latest, no one is surprised.<br />Trying to describe why I like Carroll's writing, however, I find myself somewhat tongue-tied. I tried to pinpoint in my article, \\"The Importance of Details,\\" as a level of description that he perfectly captures, just the right amount of intimate knowledge of his characters that draws a reader in. Sometimes these details are extraordinary, sometimes mundane, but they are never uninteresting.<br />Thinking about it, I realize that I did leave something out of the article that explains a large part of the draw of his novels for myself. I guess I thought it obvious in context, yet I should explicitly state it--Carroll's novels are fantasies that have a basis in reality. Unlike some fantasy novels whose entire purpose is action/adventure, Carroll's stories are serious studies into the nature of being human through the analogy of the fantastic. The difference is like comparing \\"Raiders of the Lost Ark\\" to something like \\"Bladerunner.\\" While both are well-made films starring Harrison Ford jumping about, one is simply a fun-filled rollercoaster, while the other asks \\"what is it to be human?\\" Only one truly lingers in the mind's eye.<br />From the Teeth of Angels is the last (supposedly) of the interconnected novels that began with Bones of the Moon, and it shows its thematic basis a little more so than others, as if Carroll was dashing this one off without veiling his purpose as much as he did in other books. It just doesn't take very long for you to figure out that From the Teeth of Angels is about Death. Carroll has side-swiped the issue in other books (specifically, Philip Strayhorn's suicide in A Child Across the Sky), but herein he tackles it headon. The premise is simple and silly out of context--what if you could ask questions of Death, yet suffer consequences if you don't understand the answers? A bizarre concept, yet Carroll makes it work because you believe in his characters, and once you believe in them, you believe in what is happening to them.<br />This got me to thinking about themes. What are the different ideas associated with the \\"Rondua\\" books? From the Teeth of Angels can only be about Death--it permeates the book. Bones of the Moon is about Guilt, I believe, specifically the guilt of a terminated relationship (in the extreme case there of an abortion). After Silence is about Trust, although it could be about Time as well. I think Trust because of the opening with the cartoonist wondering about his new girlfriend, and trying to gain the trust of her young son. The ending throws that theme off just slightly. Outside the Dog Museum, probably my pick for the worst of the lot, is about Glory. Carroll tries hard to portray the search for wonder, but when he separates it from conflict, it doesn't work quite as well. I'm not sure about Sleeping in Flame, Black Cocktail or A Child Across the Sky. I'll have to think on them. Perhaps it's time to write another article?is simple and silly out of context--what if you could ask questions of Death, yet suffer consequences if you don't understand the answers? A bizarre concept, yet Carroll makes it work because you believe in his characters, and once you believe in them, you believe in what is happening to them.<br />This got me to thinking about themes. What are the different ideas associated with the \\"Rondua\\" books? From the Teeth of Angels can only be about Death--it permeates the book. Bones of the Moon is about Guilt, I believe, specifically the guilt of a terminated relationship (in the extreme case there of an abortion). After Silence is about Trust, although it could be about Time as well. I think Trust because of the opening with the cartoonist wondering about his new girlfriend, and trying to gain the trust of her young son. The ending throws that theme off just slightly. Outside the Dog Museum, probably my pick for the worst of the lot, is about Glory. Carroll tries hard to portray the search for wonder, but when he separates it from conflict, it doesn't work quite as well. I'm not sure about Sleeping in Flame, Black Cocktail or A Child Across the Sky. I'll have to think on them. Perhaps it's time to write another article?	2002-10-23
1381323:US	53084041	R1PNVTTVEFSW6I	0099863405	203491000	The Great California Game	Books	3	1	1	N	N	These could become addictive	David Dandy and Sonia Kreidenweis, my landlords from my last semester, turned me onto the Lovejoy series on A&E. Lovejoy, a rogue antiques dealer with a circle of friends who combine to help and hinder, is the type of character I'd like to create--witty and crass, full of interesting quirks, yet also a sense of morality. Now that I'm once again sans A&E, I turned to the novels of Jonathan Gash that provided the basis for the TV show.<br />While the dichotomy between TV and book isn't quite as drastic as one like Spenser: For Hire, there is a marked difference. For one, the book Lovejoy is much more a loner than his television counterpart. He's also much more chauvinistic, smart-alecky, and incredibly stupid, at least in things other than antiques. And, although the TV Lovejoy tries to match the first-person narrative of the books with his humorous asides to the camera, it just doesn't come close to the endless personal nature of the onrunning dialogue between character and reader in the book. Which is to say that both media have their pros and cons.<br />In this novel, Lovejoy finally visits America, and quickly gets involved in a very large scam--one that decides the crime takings for the whole country. I like to think of it as if Damon Runyon had been born British, with the first-person narrative flowing serenely over the dangerous mob happenings below.<br />Oh, I almost forgot my favorite line in the book. Lovejoy, trying to extradite himself from one of the situations is telling the reader his plan, with the ending, \\"Then exit, pursued by bear.\\" Funny? Not alone, perhaps, but in context, this stage description from Shakespeare, incongruously applied, tickled me in the right places. I liked this book enough to pick up another, and I suspect that I'll probably end up reading them all if they can match the fun of this one.	2002-10-10
1381814:US	53084041	RR5X7UQHKGD8H	0440422256	655756332	The Egypt Game	Books	4	21	28	N	N	(Un)Commonplace Magic	A recent thread on rec.arts.books covered people's favorite children's books. I hadn't heard of this one, and the title intrigued me (I'm a sucker for games), so I went out hunting. April Dawn (not her real name) is the daughter of a Hollywood wannabe who comes to the small town of the story to live with her grandmother. She makes friends with the girl down the hall. Sound a little boring? Well, it's not, because Snyder has a touch of authenticity rare in children's books. Most of the ones that I like tend to exaggerate the adults or the children's experiences, such as the recently read James and the Giant Peach or classics like Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. Snyder's world is wonderfully real and alive. The children are sweet and cruel to each other and adults; the adults are understanding and sick. Why, there's even a \\"serial\\" killer in this book. Frightening? Yes, but because we see this through the eyes of children, the scary aspect quickly changes to the drudgery of not being allowed as free a rein to play.<br />And play is what the Egypt Game is about. April and her friend Melanie are imagineers of the first stripe. Their game is drawn from their mutual fascination for things Egyptian and the convenient vacant junk lot behind the A-Z store. The game is perfectly portrayed--how children can make and follow their rules, but also how they stop in the midst of the game to redefine or add new rules as well.<br />I prefer children's books with a little magic in them (or, in the case of Narnia, a lot of magic), so I was delighted to read one in which the magic was of the commonplace sort rather than otherworldly.	2002-10-10
1381903:US	53084041	R3MS2WZ5YQ4DPT	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	2	31	42	N	N	Yet another that I really wanted to like, but didn't	This book should have been a favorite of mine, as it combines the overall concept of a small, misunderstood group of people with extraspecial powers (a la X-Men in the comics) with the style of Latin American magic realists (a la Jorge Luis Borges or Gabriel Garcia Marques) and the literary theme of trying to make one thing match another (in this case, the life of Saleem Sinai with the history of India itself). But I found it much too slow, repetitive, and obtuse. Perhaps I needed an annotated version, so that I could appreciate it more?<br />This is indeed very disappointing to me, as I think Rushdie's style of mixing the highbrow literary art with pop culture references and scatalogical content a refreshing change. I like it a lot more than literary pretension like that of New Yorker darlings Matt Klam. The problem really came down to the way that the style came together in that, while I found the story and the theme elements fascinating, I thought the sentences way too bloated, where entire sentences and paragraphs could easily have been cut. This is not to mention the repitition of earlier events in an underscore of the themes, that might have been useful if you were the type of reader who couldn't connect the dots the first time the lines were drawn.<br />I also found the conceit of the narrator storyteller, and his impotence, to be a little too precious. Rushdie was walking the fine line of metastory and I felt he slipped off it way too much into a self-conscious parody of literary (...)<br />I know I'm going to be in the minority on this one, for not only has Midnight's Children already won major awards, it's been virtually canonized by the Booker people as the best of the Bookers. Oh, well. I'll chalk yet another one up to the vagaries of taste. It's not that I don't think Rushdie can't write, but that his writing just doesn't work for me.	2002-10-10
1381935:US	53084041	RIJVUFYWOR4MC	0345371984	913643876	Last Chance to See	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Last chance to read...	A travel book written by that master of modern British understatement, Mr. Have-PowerBook-Will-Travel Douglas Adams. I, along with a large number of people, idolize Adams' sendup of everything science-fictional in the Hitchhiker's Guide books, but have been disappointed by the gradual falling off of quality in those books as well as the poor showing of the Dirk Gently novels. Have no fear when you approach this book, though, because Adams is in his best form here. If anything, this book is much too short.<br />Adams approaches travelling somewhere in between Tim Cahill and Redmond O'Hanlon. Last Chance to See... is a collection of essays on endangered species that Adams and photographer/travel-arranger Carwardine attempt to see. From the chicken- and goat-loving komodo dragons, to the reclusive kakapo bird in New Zealand, Adams has just the right amount of natural history plopped in along with his delicious brand of irony for this book to be educational as well as fun.<br />Not to get into the environmentalist spiel, but this is also a good book for your favorite logger or logger-minded friend. Maybe if Adams covers the spotted owl next, we can laugh at that bit of sadness as well.	2002-10-10
1381993:US	53084041	R3TCQJFTCEOS7W	006097625X	706328760	Understanding Comics: The Invisible Art	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Indispensable	A very unusual book from McCloud, the writer/artist of the comic Zot! In fact, I'm amazed that McCloud doesn't have a more extensive bibliography, given the wealth of information and insight presented in this volume. Succinctly, this book explains how comics work. Not how they are made, per se, but why the sequential images of a comic are an art form different from books or TV. And McCloud accomplishes this using the very medium he is examining.<br />I'm a comics fan that stopped buying them because they were putting me in the poor house. McCloud here explained to me how I was initially sucked in by the medium and why I kept reading some of the \\"worst\\" examples even while my artistic tastes were changing in other media. While I doubt that I could recreate the same Glen Cox who once wrote letters to comics, I can now reconcile myself with the Glen who still enjoys Howard the Duck and Cerebus (not to mention Zot!).<br />My friend Phil Yeh has been on a literacy campaign for over five years now, and he gives the following reason for why he dedicated himself to it. He said that he saw the literacy figures for America, and the downward trend, and realized that he was losing more and more of his audience. He felt that the American disdain for comics was missing the point--children who read comics are still reading. Although McCloud makes a strong case for the comic being different from prose, I don't think that he would disagree. And, if the interplay between words and pictures keeps a child reading, what is wrong with that?	2002-10-10
1388884:US	53084041	R23QAQ5N810Y84	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A muted performance	Quite unlike his other two books, The Soloist is a quiet novel of introspection about ethics, mental health, and music. I would never have bought this book if it had been by another author--in fact, I ordered it sight unseen based solely on my enjoyment of Salzman's other books. And, having read it, I wonder if I would have picked it up now that I know the subject and style. It's not that it is uninteresting. Salzman has a wonderfully transparent style that suffers only from a marked tendency to tell rather than show (not constantly, but enough to be irritating). There's just nothing special about The Soloist. Unless, that is, you go for novels about cello players.<br />Renne was a child prodigy who lost his gift in his late teens, and now teaches music in Los Angeles. The combination of his thirty-fourth birthday, jury duty, an unexpected student, and a possible love interest arrive at the same time, making for a remarkable frisson in his life. That's it. A simple tale of one man and the events that changed him. Okay, so it's nothing earth-shattering. I need a book every now and then to bring me back to the ground. At least Salzman is an engaging writer--I finished this book in two sittings.	2002-10-03
1389141:US	53084041	RV8V7EAAKREEV	0809900033	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Book 1)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Derivative, but quite readable	I think sometimes I'm a literary snob. I say, what's the point of reading a book that doesn't contain merit, meaning, I do not read solely for pleasure. But I'm lying. I do read for pleasure--but what pleasures me now isn't the same sort of book that pleasured me when I was 18. Then, I could find joy in endless leaps of the imagination, no matter how rusty the springs on the pogo stick were. Nowadays, it takes a new spring on the pogo stick, or at least a whole lot of WD-40.<br />Tad Williams doesn't have a new spring--his is only as old as the 1960s and that seminal work of high fantasy, The Lord of the Rings. But his WD-40 is fast acting. I don't believe that Tad is offering anything new in this book, but his style is fluid, the plotting well prepared, and the world a strange mixture of reality and fantasy (much like the strange interplay in Tolkien). Compare this to Terry Brooks (who I did read back in my younger days). Brooks, at least in The Sword of Shannara, does nothing new. The characters were cardboard cutouts of those he read in Tolkien. Or how about David Eddings, whose work is one plot coupon after another. Williams at least knows that he is treading the same ground here, and he works hard to make it at least seem different. While he doesn't have the courage of Stephen Donaldson, whose Thomas Covenant novels, while excruciatingly purple, are fevered creations of misery and muse, Williams achieves a good balance between pleasing his audience with good writing skills.<br />The Dragonbone Chair is an epic. Clearly Williams set out to write a &quot;winnebago&quot; of a book, and constructed a double-wide. The protagonist is your typical young male role model who is a misunderstood dreamer. Luckily, the book gets weird quickly, with a strange intermix of politics, religion (something Tolkien doesn't really cover in Lord of the Rings) and magic.<br />It is the religious aspect that is unique here. Williams plays on some strange similarities between the fantasy world and our own history, and it shows itself best in the Christ-like figure Usires, and the Mother Church. Some say LotR was an analogy for WWII--perhaps Williams is striving for an updated effect. I can't tell as of yet, being only 1/3 through the tale.<br />I have the succeeding volumes and I plan to tackle them straightaway. I told Jill before I started these that I needed a new world to simply immerse in for a few books. Tad's fulfilling the bill nicely.y world and our own history, and it shows itself best in the Christ-like figure Usires, and the Mother Church. Some say LotR was an analogy for WWII--perhaps Williams is striving for an updated effect. I can't tell as of yet, being only 1/3 through the tale.<br />I have the succeeding volumes and I plan to tackle them straightaway. I told Jill before I started these that I needed a new world to simply immerse in for a few books. Tad's fulfilling the bill nicely.	2002-10-03
1389263:US	53084041	R199RORD44EYPE	0393311112	591725810	Much Ado About Nothing: Screenplay, Introduction, and Notes on the Making of the Movie	Books	3	2	2	N	N	For the fan of Branagh or the movie	The book to accompany the movie.  There's nothing new here, really, although one can take the screenplay and check it against the play to find out the changes that were made to the text.<br />Branagh says in the foreword that having the American actors was his idea. Perhaps. I had heard a rumor that he had included them for a wider U.S. distribution. In any case, it's worth noting that the Americans, with the possible exception of Denzel Washington, just can't hold a candle to even the meanest bit parts played by the British. I still think Keaton was way too &quot;Beetlejuice&quot; for Dogberry, although the explanation for his interpretation herein gave me new insight into it. If you're a Branagh admirer as I am, you shouldn't pass this book up.	2002-10-03
1389611:US	53084041	RAPLZLEWKV9YE	1853812056	279179240	The Virago book of fairy tales	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Interesting, but you probably want to go to the source	This one came from Jill's library, passed to me because she felt that I would enjoy it since I enjoy fairy tales. In fact, some of the stories included in this volume are anthologized from some of the books on my backlist. The selection criteria here is mainly tales that involve women, tales that were available in English, and/or tales that caught the attention of Carter. Some are fairly common, like &quot;Little Red Riding Hood,&quot; while others are incredibly bizarre, at least to our culture, such as the Eskimo stories.<br />Maybe it's because I read this straight through, instead of simply reading a tale a night, but I came away strangely ambivalent towards these tales (with the exception of the Eskimo tales, which were too strange for words--short, vulgar, amazing). Not a bad collection, but if you are a fairy tale junkie, you'll want to go to her sources.	2002-10-03
1389672:US	53084041	RQM9K34TA6YJR	0886774802	931140449	Stone of Farewell (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 2)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Wears its influences on its dust jacket	The second in the Memory, Sorrow and Thorn trilogy. About 3/4 of the way through this volume, too much of the influence began to show. Not that such an occurrence is surprising--it's damned difficult to write a fantasy epic without Tolkien influencing it in some way--but something pegged a memory cell, and I winced at the similarity. As I said about The Dragonbone Chair, Williams isn't as bad as Terry Brooks. Brooks' main character was a short halfling type; Williams' is a young boy who is maturing quickly. Brooks' main good wizard was a mysterious man who comes and goes; Williams kills off the good wizard halfway through the first book. The similarity that made me wince, however, was the knowledge that the main bad wizard (as opposed to the overlord baddie) was once a member of the good wizard group. Shades of Saruman, and, as Jill pointed out, Star Wars.<br />To break it down into these stereotyped roles is to reduce the work. Williams does a wonderful job in scene description, and his plotting ain't too shabby. Many times I was caught in a storyline that I wanted to see resolved. These were often the times that Williams would break from that action to cover a slower scene elsewhere, in the hopes that you stay fixed to the book looking for the resolution of the first. Unfortunately, there's more than just two of these situations going on, but something like four or five. Tolkien did the same thing, but in large chunks. (In fact, if my memory serves me, Tolkien had one group move on, and then returned to another and the time had to backtrack several months. Williams' sections seem to match fairly consistently in shorter durations than that.)<br />I'm still enjoying it, though I think I might take a little breather before attacking the last, and thickest, volume.	2002-10-03
1394308:US	53084041	R1WF3UXAAYG3P9	0312890079	829609304	The Red Magician	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Surprisingly realistic fantasy	Picked this up on a whim--I think it won a children's book award--and read it in a day. Nice little contemporary (20th Century) fantasy about a Jewish girl in Hungary before, during, and after WWII. \\"Fantasy\\" may be the wrong word, for while there are some fantastic things going on, the happenings are startingly realistic. In some worlds, this one might be considered magic realism, except that the characters are surprised and awed by the fantastic. They seem to accept it as natural, however. The really surprising thing about this book, though, is the changes of the lead character and the time scale. I didn't expect the character to \\"grow up\\"; I didn't expect a lot of what happened. A non-predictable fantasy? Yes. How rare.	2002-09-28
1394628:US	53084041	R1FCUU5FEH83FQ	0312058225	435956290	Beginning	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Attempt Greatness	I'm in love with Kenneth Branagh--no! Not that way! I'm in love with the talent and the drive. And the love is mixed with equal parts envy and recrimination. Oh, how I would like to be Branagh, 28 and directing himself in Henry V, or, even before that, just as a member of the Royal Shakespeare Company, filming a movie of the early life of D.H. Lawrence in Australia. Yes, I would like to be an actor, but for ever much a dream it may be in Britain, even more so in America. Here, there are only two places where one can gain recognition--New York and Los Angeles. Even more so, those are probably the only places one could make a living at it. But it's envy of the man's energy just as much. Sure, it may be the case that becoming an actor is easier in Britain, but then how does one explain Branagh's writing his own one-man shows, or his first play. No, this is truly a man with talent and drive, probably equally strong. And so the recrimination. I am 27, only a year away from the magic age at which this book was written, and what do I have to show for it? I finally have my Bachelor's degree, I've published two stories and written a few more, I've been involved in one magazine of note, and I've lived in several places besides where I grew up. And that's it. Not really a lot. Wasted time? Some of it, and yet, on the other hand, I wouldn't exchange it, either. I just with that I had something more tangible to show for it. Branagh's young to write an autobiography, even a first volume as this undoubtably will turn out to be, and he comments as much. Even for all his accomplishments, he isn't content to rest. There's a moral there, I believe. What Branagh has to show you is that greatness, which I do believe he has already obtained, is not an ephemeral quality, but elusive and rare. It can be had, through hard work. I heard someone recently on NPR--a poet, I think--talk about writing. He said, attempt greatness, because if you fail, well, then, it may simply be good, which isn't bad. But if you only attempt to be good.... I will attempt greatness.bad. But if you only attempt to be good.... I will attempt greatness.	2002-09-28
1394630:US	53084041	R2SBT68W0KAKKK	039548829X	99157464	Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A harrowing look at police life in the big city	This is an amazing book. Two people picked this out of my \\"To Read\\" list as their suggestion for what I should tackle next. Interestingly enough, I had already started it. I had heard about this book originally on a private list that I'm on, but never saw a copy at any bookstore that I went to. Then I heard that there was a TV show based on it, but I still couldn't find a copy anywhere. Just as I was about to give up, I passed through Powell's Books in Portland, and found a first edition hardcover for cheap--and it was worth three times that amount.<br />Simon spent an entire year observing a squad of Baltimore homicide detectives. The result is an incredible page-turner, filled with humor, pathos, stupidity, politics, brutality, and, through it all, death. This is not Hill Street Blues, and especially not Barney Miller. As realistic as Hill Street Blues tried to be, it really can't touch the mundane uniqueness--the singular exciting boredom--that is the job of homicide investigation.<br />To parody Dr. Seuss, \\"Ah, the things you'll see!\\" This is a travel book as much as any trip to a foreign land--an exploration into the world of police procedures and life. It's not a place many of us would choose to live in, much less visit. I much prefer to read about it.	2002-09-28
1394735:US	53084041	R2P7YJYI843J1R	0929480317	360989977	Mefisto in Onyx	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I expect more from Ellison	Harlan Ellison, &quot;Mefisto in Onyx&quot;<br />[OMNI, sometime 1993]<br />It's nice to see Ellison returning to stories with plot and character, after the indefinable &quot;Eidolon&quot; and &quot;The Man Who Rowed Christopher Columbus Ashore.&quot; Ellison states that this story took ten years to write, and it shows an affinity with that Ellison of ten years ago--passionate, filled with rightous anger, and burning up the pages with his rage. &quot;Mefisto&quot; is the story of a serial killer, who may or may not be the person we think he is, and of the District Attorney who prosecuted him, then fell in love with him and believes him to be innocent now, and, most importantly, with Rudy, who can jaunt (shades of Alfie Bester) into people's minds (i.e., read them). A love triangle made in hell, made even more unholy by the amount of killing gone before, and the possible miscarriage of justice. Hey, let's face it, this story has everything--so why aren't I wild about it? Can it be that Ellison's jocular, biting, ironic style has staled? Maybe it's just dated, more a product of the radical sixties than the disturbed '90s. Ellison has updated his references, but the manner is still the same as can be found in &quot;The Whimper of Whipped Dogs.&quot; And he's damned clever, but unsurprising, since we expect something of a twist from him. With Ellison, I have so many expectations, and am easily critical. Under the by-line of any other author, I might be raving; from Ellison, I expect so much more.	2002-09-28
1394773:US	53084041	R21T8ERE8M0DAB	0393308189	268132482	Ever Since Darwin: Reflections in Natural History	Books	3	6	33	N	N	Trying to make the ineffable understandable	Jill had been trying to get me to read Gould for over a year. She subscribes to Natural History and so had a fresh dose every month to tackle me with. And I'm not sure of my reluctance. Jill would say that it's because I'm reluctant to do anything that she wants me to do--I'm not ready to admit that (I certainly hope that that's not true!). I think it may have been that I didn't want to add Natural History to my voluminous stack of stuff yet to read-- cleverly forgetting, if I had ever truly realized it, that Gould's column was collected, and continuously being collected, in a series of volumes, of which this one is the first. Maybe I just wanted to start from the beginning.<br />It's a good thing that Jill had introduced me to some later Gould, because this, while genuinely entertaining, and definately intellectually stimulating, is a rougher mix. Gould has grown as a writer (and probably as a scientist) since originally starting his column.<br />This isn't a book to try to read at one sitting (I think it's been at my bedside for the last year) because it is thick and meaty. While Gould attempts to write at a level that a layman can understand, he doesn't simplify things. It's a tough slog through some of these essays, but always worth the effort. I've got the next volume by the bedside now, and I look forward to growing with Gould.	2002-09-28
1394848:US	53084041	R3Q323ZZ3P6VVG	0312862350	372166379	Age of Wonders: Exploring The World of Science Fiction	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Useful for explaining to friends and family why you read SF	It was bound to happen. As I sat down to type up this commentary, I paged through my Day-Timer to find the notes I had written on the books I had read. I came across the reference to this...and a blank page. So what do I remember, now over two months later? I picked up this book long ago in paperback, read the first chapter or so, and sent the book to my mother. My parents have been quite understanding of my interest in science fiction, but I don't believe they've ever quite understood it. The first chapter, and indeed the rest of the book, is a wonderful introduction to science fiction and the culture it engenders. I don't know if my mother has ever read this, but I'm glad that it was there to send to her. I picked up this book again three years ago from an ad in Locus. It sat on my bookshelf until this past semester, when I did a study of science fiction fandom for my sociology class. Hartwell's excellent study then came in quite handy as a reference tool and quotebook for the paper that I wrote. Useful? Quite. I recommend it as probably the best study so far on science fiction fandom, mainly because it is the only one. Other books make reference to the subculture; only Hartwell dedicates an entire book to it. If you've ever wondered why fans are as they are, this might be your answer.	2002-09-28
1394887:US	53084041	R3Q0MPF7YGOCSA	0446364754	902465159	Children of the Night	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Silver medal winner	This is Simmons' latest entry into the vampire Olympics (his previous one the mega-volt Carrion Comfort), and it weighs in with a Silver medal, at least with this judge. I liked it a lot better than the last novel of his I read, Summer of Night, which wasn't bad, per se, but suffered from being too slavishly tied to the Stephen Kingish subject and style of It and \\"The Body.\\" Children of the Night  is vaguely related to Summer of Night--a main character in Children was a child in Summer (wait a minute...yeah, that's right. Weird. Seems that it should be the other way around given the titles). Although Vlad Tsepes is a character, he's very ancillary. The story is told from the viewpoint of a woman nematologist who, while providing humanitarian aid in Romania, stumbles upon a child of the \\"family.\\" The child has been abandoned by its parents, and only survives through periodic blood transfusions. The doctor, through professional curiousity and personal generosity, adopts the child and brings it back with her to the U.S. and her work at the Center for Disease Control. But the family, whom the child had been stolen from, wants him back, because he is the heir apparent. And the chase is on. What Simmons brings anew to the vampire games is a strictly plausible, even science-fictional, treatment of vampirism. And, while he's firmly set his story in the modern world--post-Ceneasque regime in Romania, post-AIDS--he pulls a twist on the normal AIDS/vampire nexus. For Simmons, the \\"curse\\" of vampirism breeds hope for an AIDS cure, so the story games a meta-level above the pure \\"rescue/protect the child\\" storyline, as the child represents a hope for humanity. But that isn't enough. Although there is no specific fault I can pick with Children of the Night, as a whole it fails in plotting. Too many things resolve around chance occurrences. Nothing quite so obvious as a deus ex macchina, but on the level of the \\"... plot.\\" Because Simmons is such a masterful writer, one doesn't really notice this while reading, caught up in the roller coaster ride, and because he uses his research in such original ways, the ideas remain interesting. But he only gets the Silver medal; Kim Newman is holding the Gold for his masterpiece, Anno Dracula.lly notice this while reading, caught up in the roller coaster ride, and because he uses his research in such original ways, the ideas remain interesting. But he only gets the Silver medal; Kim Newman is holding the Gold for his masterpiece, Anno Dracula.	2002-09-28
1394910:US	53084041	R38GJRWKK4KPLH	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Amazingly detailed and realistic	I first saw mention of this faux historical series by Patrick O'Brian in the Common Reader catalog. Faux historical? I guess that's what to call it. O'Brian is historically realistic while using entirely fictional main characters, who may meet and interact with real historical figures. This is different from novels such as Robert Graves' I, Claudius or the Alexander novels of Mary Renault. While O'Brian's characters may not have the basis that Graves' or Renault's do, I wonder if he perhaps is the more realistic. This may be because O'Brian has much more historical documentation to work with. We simply know much more about the period of sailing ships and kings than we do about triremes and emperors. Graves' Claudius, although a reed in the wind of Roman politics, is still a very heroic figure; O'Brian's Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, although heroic, seem much more like real people. This is the opening book in the series (the sixteenth, The Wine-Dark Sea, just came out in hardcover) and sets the characters and stage. The title refers to Jack Aubrey, who is named Master and Commander (a step below Captain, yet in charge of a single ship) of the sloop Sophie as the story opens. Aubrey has a few character flaws, including being hot-headed and slightly indiscrete, and this has made for him a few enemies. The other main character is Stephen Maturin, who becomes the Sophie's ship surgeon, even though he is over-qualified for the job (as he is an actual doctor, and most ship surgeons of the time weren't). He shares with Aubrey some basic characteristics--a sense of honor, a love of fine food and music, and a real need for money. Maturin also has a past that, like Aubrey's, contributes a few enemies as well. But the character stuff, as good as it is and necessary to make this book work, is just icing on the cake. The fun here, and what got me interested in it when it recently became a topic of discussion on rec.arts.books, is the sea. The description of life aboard and off ship, in a land filled with merchantmen and warships, where loyalty to country is primary, but taking a heavy prize can make your name, the strategy of sea battles and the lonliness of like aboard ship. I've always been a sucker for pirate stories, and this is just the more honor-filled side. Needless to say, I expect I'll be reading the next fifteen books in the series and looking forward to O'Brian writing even more (I wrote this originally back in 1993; O'Brian wrote four more in this series before his death).f ship, in a land filled with merchantmen and warships, where loyalty to country is primary, but taking a heavy prize can make your name, the strategy of sea battles and the lonliness of like aboard ship. I've always been a sucker for pirate stories, and this is just the more honor-filled side. Needless to say, I expect I'll be reading the next fifteen books in the series and looking forward to O'Brian writing even more (I wrote this originally back in 1993; O'Brian wrote four more in this series before his death).	2002-09-28
1395121:US	53084041	R261225RBQ4MS	0452262003	16127971	Angel Island (Plume American Women Writers)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Powerful early 20th century feminist work	This is an intriguing feminist work from the early part of last century, while a little dated, is still very enjoyable. The first part is a bit slow--five men are shipwrecked on a tropical island, and they play talking heads about their situation and their view of women. Finally the plot starts taking shape when they discover that they are being watched by some very unusual creatures. They debate what to do, and make their move about halfway through the book in what has to be one of the more shocking events that I've read in a book in quite a while. From there, the plot gets even more pointed, and it ends on quite a redeeming note. I'm sorry I I can't go into more detail, but you really should read it yourself. Beware the edition that Jill gave me, however; there's an introduction by Ursula LeGuin that gives away some plot bits. I was reading it before the book, but got an intimation that she was talking much more about the plot than I cared to know before reading the book.	2002-09-28
1395173:US	53084041	RW3MT854S6NSQ	0140374248	893523493	James and the Giant Peach	Books	5	4	8	N	N	One of the great children's books	...<br />James and the Giant Peach is the first from this. Jill's been trying to get me to read this children's book for years, *knowing* that I would appreciate it. She was right, of course. I loved it. It's exactly the type of children's book that I look for: not sickly sweet with a sledgehammer moral, but sly and wicked and funny and irreverant, with an underlying ethical framework that I can agree with. Characters in books like these can be exaggerated (as Dahl did with wonderful effect in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory), but they contain a kernel of what we see in our everyday world--things like greed, egoism, abuse, unhappiness, etc.<br />...	2002-09-28
1396850:US	53084041	RVXDX8XI00Y8X	0931580587	4895098	Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do: The Absurdity of Consensual Crimes in a Free Society	Books	5	10	10	N	N	This is an important book	I think this is one--if not the--of the most important books that I have ever read. And I do not say that lightly. I'm weighing this single book against all the \\"great\\" books of the world, including that perennial bestseller, the Bible. Why is this book so important? Because of its terrifying immediacy. While I say this books is important, I mean here and now. It is my sincere hope that this book will become a historical document (like many of those great books); it is my fear that I am dreaming.<br />So what is so all-fired important? This book is a history and discussion about consensual crimes--that is, victimless crimes, or, as the author prefers, crimes in which the participants consented to the action. The distinction is necessary, and McWilliams makes a point of clearly stating his position, codified in a single statement, which I will repeat for you here: \\"...\\" However, for such a simple statement, it is dangerously revolutionary with regard to our society today (...).<br />What at first glance might seem the height of liberalism--McWilliams is, after all, recommending the abolishment of laws against drug use, gambling, and prostitution, among others--is actually the basis of libertarianism. Yet McWilliams has solved the problem that I have always had with the libertarian movement, and that is their stand on the environment. Clearly many of the environmental rules and regulations would continue to stand if McWilliams had his way; pollution does physically harm the environment (and the persons) of others.<br />This book, for the simple nature of its argument, is no half-measure though. Although it is extremely readable, with an interesting layout (included a boxed quote for almost every page), it is still 800 pages. I didn't feel like any of the material was extraneous, however, and sometimes wanted more detail. Some of the interesting details that were included:<br />  * McWilliams documenting Jerry Falwell committing a \\"false witness\\" (lying) on national television;<br />  * The history of hemp use (and the evolution of the propaganda on its abuse);<br />  * The play-by-play description of a \\"Dragnet\\" episode in which a character dies of an LSD overdose, although there's never been a documented case of such (some have died due to actions performed under the influence [similar to drunk driving?], but not of an overdose);<br />* \\"The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.\\" The Bible, right? Wrong. Shakespeare, \\"The Merchant of Venice,\\" Act 1, Scene 3, Line 99.<br />While it isn't necessary to agree completely with McWilliams (although you'll be tempted; he is a very persuasive writer), the point is that if you agree with a single argument, it is enough to call for the abolishment of laws against consensual crimes. A strong statement, but clearly evidenced by the facts--that is, if you agree with the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.<br />Is it needless to say that I highly recommend this book? No, I think I need to state it openly. Even if you don't come to the same conclusions as McWilliams, I think it is vitally necessary that you make the effort to educate yourself regarding the history of these activities and the history of the laws against these activities. Given the amount of dis- and non-information that is available on drugs, prostitution, homosexuality, et al, even if the statistics that McWilliams quotes are only 10% accurate, the figures are still impressive.<br />This isn't a \\"dry\\" book at all, even given the numerous quotes from founding fathers (both American and Biblical); McWilliams understands the necessity of humor (who said, \\"If I couldn't laugh, I'd be crying\\"?).television;<BR>    * The history of hemp use (and the evolution of the propaganda on its abuse);<BR>    * The play-by-play description of a \\"Dragnet\\" episode in which a character dies of an LSD overdose, although there's never been a documented case of such (some have died due to actions performed under the influence [similar to drunk driving?], but not of an overdose);<BR>* \\"The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.\\" The Bible, right? Wrong. Shakespeare, \\"The Merchant of Venice,\\" Act 1, Scene 3, Line 99.<br />While it isn't necessary to agree completely with McWilliams (although you'll be tempted; he is a very persuasive writer), the point is that if you agree with a single argument, it is enough to call for the abolishment of laws against consensual crimes. A strong statement, but clearly evidenced by the facts--that is, if you agree with the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.<br />Is it needless to say that I highly recommend this book? No, I think I need to state it openly. Even if you don't come to the same conclusions as McWilliams, I think it is vitally necessary that you make the effort to educate yourself regarding the history of these activities and the history of the laws against these activities. Given the amount of dis- and non-information that is available on drugs, prostitution, homosexuality, et al, even if the statistics that McWilliams quotes are only 10% accurate, the figures are still impressive.<br />This isn't a \\"dry\\" book at all, even given the numerous quotes from founding fathers (both American and Biblical); McWilliams understands the necessity of humor (who said, \\"If I couldn't laugh, I'd be crying\\"?).	2002-09-26
1397426:US	53084041	R2P6OT2X4DDKCW	0380767813	359966064	The Bone Forest	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Myths and legends	Very good collection, mostly fantasy, yet treading the dark edge of horror, rather than adventure or whimsey. Mostly worth it for the title novella and \\"Thorn,\\" but no outright clunkers. In detail:<br />  * \\"The Bone Forest\\"--This is a prequel novella to Holdstock's Mythago Wood and Lavondyss, I believe. It stands alone fine. This reminded me of Jonathan Carroll--what his writing would be like if he allowed himself to lose himself within the fantasy rather than playing on the dividing line between fantasy and \\"reality\\" (I read recently that Nabokov recommends always enclosing the word \\"reality\\" in quote marks). The mythago idea is a powerful one, and provides plenty of material that Holdstock could work through for years. Yet, he seems to shy away from the epic, instead concentrating on individual stories--mano a mano with the wood. I have to admit that I think that I admire him for that.<br />  * \\"Thorn\\"--Another powerful story, this time about a man led into a belief then believed betrayed. And, yet, was he? There's a sense of both here. That what the man was being led to was right; that what was being done to him was wrong. But was it wrong, or just different? It reminds me of some of the cultural anthropology that I've been reading recently--what is one group's delicacy is another's abomination. What is moral in one group is highly irregular, if not immoral, in another. Excellent story to bring that out.<br />  * \\"The Shapechanger\\"--Nice, yet not as good as the others. First, the good things. Excellent use of pagan magic and relationship between the old shaman and young, inexperienced and somewhat reluctant apprentice. Sense of danger high and yet not silly. But then, as we learn more of the daemon--the child haunting the past from the future--the idea goes downhill. Not necessarily Holdstock's fault; battered children are, unfortunately, an overused element in today's fantasy and horror fiction. While this might have been fresh at the time it was written, it appears old hat to us now. Still, the writing and pacing are excellent, and worth reading.<br />  * \\"The Boy Who Jumped the Rapids\\"--Didn't like this one so much...I think because it didn't seem to complete itself. The elements are all there and fine--conflict, action, meaning--yet it seemed less cohesive than it should. The central mystery, the horned stranger, is resolved, but the secondary mystery, Caylon's ability to ford the river, seems like it is resolved yet again doesn't. Maybe it's the interplay of the two, and trying to figure out what one theme does to the other.<br />  * \\"Time of the Tree\\"--Very Borgesian. What it means, I don't know, but the style, the description, are interesting. The world on man? The Earth as man? Strange--also reminiscent of Garcia Marquez' story about the beached giant.<br />  * \\"Magic Man\\"--Well done pre-history story. I tend not to like Clan of the Cave Bear stories, so it had to get over that bias of mine. Good description, good conflict, and nice twist at the end.<br />  * \\"Scarrowfell\\"--Like \\"Thorn,\\" a pagan fantasy/horror, playing with the modern reader's normal Christian assumptions, then removing the veil to show the true meaning. Much of Holdstock's work dabbles in the pagan--Mythago Wood makes a point that what we perceive as history is just the last link in a long chain of myths. It certainly differentiates his fantasies from those of others.<br />* \\"The Time Beyond Age\\"--This is science fiction; the rest of the book has been fantasy. Yet there's a similarity here with the fantasy. Again, the focus is on obsession and the need to study something and understand it (as with the title novella), but the very act of studying drives the observer into contact with the phenomena and, ultimately, ruins any chances for objective advancement of knowledge. Basically, it's the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle made fictive.appears old hat to us now. Still, the writing and pacing are excellent, and worth reading.<BR>    * \\"The Boy Who Jumped the Rapids\\"--Didn't like this one so much...I think because it didn't seem to complete itself. The elements are all there and fine--conflict, action, meaning--yet it seemed less cohesive than it should. The central mystery, the horned stranger, is resolved, but the secondary mystery, Caylon's ability to ford the river, seems like it is resolved yet again doesn't. Maybe it's the interplay of the two, and trying to figure out what one theme does to the other.<BR>    * \\"Time of the Tree\\"--Very Borgesian. What it means, I don't know, but the style, the description, are interesting. The world on man? The Earth as man? Strange--also reminiscent of Garcia Marquez' story about the beached giant.<BR>    * \\"Magic Man\\"--Well done pre-history story. I tend not to like Clan of the Cave Bear stories, so it had to get over that bias of mine. Good description, good conflict, and nice twist at the end.<BR>    * \\"Scarrowfell\\"--Like \\"Thorn,\\" a pagan fantasy/horror, playing with the modern reader's normal Christian assumptions, then removing the veil to show the true meaning. Much of Holdstock's work dabbles in the pagan--Mythago Wood makes a point that what we perceive as history is just the last link in a long chain of myths. It certainly differentiates his fantasies from those of others.<BR>* \\"The Time Beyond Age\\"--This is science fiction; the rest of the book has been fantasy. Yet there's a similarity here with the fantasy. Again, the focus is on obsession and the need to study something and understand it (as with the title novella), but the very act of studying drives the observer into contact with the phenomena and, ultimately, ruins any chances for objective advancement of knowledge. Basically, it's the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle made fictive.	2002-09-26
1403721:US	53084041	RXU7JQ45J48KL	0140149899	788595776	Putting on the Ritz	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Even better than his first book	Even better than the first book, Keenan's humorous take on gays and New York is entertainment of the first rank. Anyone who can do analogies to Gershwin, Philip Glass and Charlotte Corday has lots going for him in my book. This time Philip Cavanaugh gets roped in by Gilbert Selwyn into an on-going feud between rival millionaire publishing magnates. Philip knows better than to get involved in another of Gilbert's schemes, but gets trapped by love--the initiator of the plot is this beautiful man named Tommy Parker who Philip falls madly for. Of course, Claire gets involved as well (without knowing Gilbert's involvement or the actual scheme) and the books is an exciting ride to the last page.<br />My only disappointment is that, as far as I know, Keenan hasn't written any other books. Someone hurry up and give that man a contract!	2002-09-19
1403729:US	53084041	RFEUKXRWPRVBJ	0805013466	251706031	Ticket to Latvia: A Journey from Berlin to the Baltic	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Too much information, not enough scenes	The common dictum in fiction writing is &quot;show, don't tell.&quot; That is, to keep your reader interested, it is much more involving to &quot;show&quot; the scene, idea, instance, or action, than to &quot;tell.&quot; Interestingly, I think that this dictum goes beyond fiction. I've never been much of a history buff. Part of this is because of how they teach it in our public schools--dry facts and actions, later to be regurgitated on multiple-choice tests. But history can be interesting, when it's shown rather than told. What is a story--hi-story? --but a history of what happened, is happening, or will happen? Or, to illustrate the point, remember a move from the 80s called &quot;Teachers,&quot; starring Nick Nolte? Also appear was that crazy guy from &quot;Soap&quot; (Richard Mulligan?) as an escaped loony who &quot;takes over&quot; for the history professor. Every time you see him, he's in a new costume: Caesar, Napeleon, George Washington. He's creating dioramas in his classroom. Now, there's something to remember history through!<br />What does this have to do with Marcos Tanner's travelogue through Eastern Europe? I'm sure you've already guessed it. Tanner has forgotten, if he ever knew it (he's a journalist; the dictum in journalism is the pyramid structure, where the most important facts are told first, the next most important next, ad infinitum), that he needs to show us things. It's not that he doesn't do so entirely. The memories I have from this book consist of several cases of showing. But he intersperses dry-fact history among those scenes, effectively killing any momentum that he could have had. In fiction we have another term for this injection of background, history or full descriptino in the text; we call it &quot;information dumping.&quot; It's not that Tanner doesn't know of what he speaks, but he overloads the book (at least fifty percent) with extraneous background in sections, rather than working it in with his travels.	2002-09-19
1403920:US	53084041	R2AXI8X9WLIDK8	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The frosted side to the conservative flakes	This is a much needed counterpoint to the rabid right. Michael Moore is a frothing liberal who can muster as much spit and lather as Rush or Ann or G. Gordon or any of those other radio, TV and print hatchet artists. Like these commentators, his arguments aren't really to be debated (although he at least provides sources that actually match up to what he says in his text), but to be soaked in, so you can gather the rightous fury that you need to actually motivate you out of your lounge chair and into doing something.<br />You can learn things from this book. Some of them are trivial (like George W. Bush's three arrests--I think he gets to hold the record among the 43 presidents on that score); some aren't (the U.S. is number one in the number of international human rights treaties not signed).<br />One thing Moore does that you would never see from his counterparts on the right is that he doesn't hesitate to criticize those of the liberal persuasion, as he is as damning of Clinton's environmental and business-friendly record as he is of Bush the Younger's. You certainly won't find strong criticism of Bush in the current political right bestseller, even though it is warranted.<br />This isn't a book to pass to your conservative minded friends, though, because not only are they going to dislike the message, they're going to hate the messenger and how he delivers the message. Keep this one to yourself and open it up every time you need another jolt to remind you why you need to be out there working the polls to make sure every vote is counted.	2002-09-19
1404002:US	53084041	R1ZCWHFA0BP560	1857231260	149754372	Overtime	Books	3	2	2	N	N	More good bits just don't make a totally satisfying whole	While not as humourous as some of his previous books, Tom Holt still delivers the fun. (Judicious editing will make that as good a blurb as any of Rex Reed's.) I think I missed out on a lot that was going on here because I can't read French and thus was unable to translate the many chansons included here. This was also Holt's first book to really utilize time travel; he had used the concept of long periods of time between characters in Who's Afraid of Beowulf and Flying Dutch, but this is the first time modern characters have moved backwards in time for him. The trick with humourous fantasy is that the fantasy must stick to certain rules for the humour to come across as funny rather than just another piece of fantastic. Unfortunately, by the wild nature of time travel, Holt got very close to stepping over the line here. In fact, my favorite Holt novels are the &quot;Walled Orchard&quot; duo, in which he meticulously draws realistic Ancient Greek culture (with some ambiguous insertions of the fantastic; by the way, he is an ancient history scholar) and then adds the humour (although it had a tendancy to be slightly black because of the realism).<br />There's some great bits here: the definition of Time &amp; Overtime, and how they differ; the Anti-Pope; the Beaumont Street investment firm (the Crusades always provided the highest yield); a wonderfully done deus ex macchina; and how the world was made. But this seemed to be made of more bits than whole. Maybe that's the nature of time.	2002-09-19
1404112:US	53084041	R2YYPXOPJUR3C0	0898795249	64859774	Cause of Death : A Writer's Guide to Death, Murder and Forensic Medicine (Howdunit Series)	Books	2	12	20	N	N	Good information, bad writing	This is part of the Writer's Digest \\"Howdunnit\\" series--aids for the mystery writer when constructing a story. There's a lot of great information here, from the description of how an emergency room is arranged and operated, to the same for an autoposy, to numbers for ways in which people die by suicide, homicide and accidents. Wilson uses some quotes from books--mystery and otherwise--to illustrate his sections. I can't say much for his choice of quotes, especially this one from Robin Cook's Mortal Fear:<br />\\"Glancing up at the monitor, which still showed normal ECG activity, Jason touched Cedric's neck. He could feel no pulse.<br />'Let me have a cardiac needle,' he demanded. 'And someone get a blood pressure.' A large cardiac needle was thrust into his hand as he palpated Cedric's chest to locate the ridge of the sternum.\\"<br />I imagine that it might be difficult to continue to work after someone thrust a huge needle into your hand, eh? Such wonderful writing to be used as a model for would-be authors. I also noticed that Wilson is in love with the M.D. designation following his name. His name never appears in the book without it. From the use of quotes from his own published novels, and from the fiction that he created from this book, its obvious that the M.D. never helped his fiction writing any, other than provide him the information that makes up this book. Maybe it did help him understand the material presented here; at least enough to present it in a clear and readable manner. I plan to go on and check out the other books in this series, but I hope the other authors are better fiction writers than this guy.	2002-09-19
1404178:US	53084041	R29A6V6CAEQO1Z	0156180421	546202796	City of Truth (A Harvest Book)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Audacious	James Morrow is a writer after my own heart. In City of Truth, he takes an audacious idea--what if everyone always told the truth?--and uses it to show that there's something much deeper. We learn that while truth is beautiful, it can also be incredibly ugly. And that, while lies are despicable, they also have a place. And while we learn these things, we also get to laugh at some great imagination, as what would advertising be like if it had to be truthful (I especially enjoyed the &quot;new&quot; Surgeon General's warning on a pack of Canceroulettes, not to mention Camp Ditch-the-Kids). Morrow's got a way with this; his Full Spectrum story, &quot;Daughter Earth,&quot; contained many of the same elements: a light, humorous tone encasing a serious, yet not dull, meaning.	2002-09-19
1404210:US	53084041	R1KLIEK2P18ZVN	0156225913	576467761	Conversations with Stalin	Books	4	13	15	N	N	From idealogy to reality	Although I read this as a requirement for one of my classes this semester (East Europe Since 1918), I found it genuinely interesting, enough that I began and finished it in the same day. Djilas was one of the top communists of Yugoslavia, and was part of the first communist foreign missions to the Soviet Union. His book treads from the opening euphoria of the promise of socialism and its new expression, including the near-worship of its manifest leader, Stalin. Then doubts begin to creep in as he is horrified by the actions of the Red Army in his homeland and the relationship that the Soviets--communist comrades--wish to compel upon the Yugoslavs. Quickly this moves to deep disappointment as he realizes that for all their propaganda, the Soviets are truly just a different embodiment of Imperialistic Russia and that the more things have changed, the more they have actually remained the same. His personal insights into the character of the Soviet leaders lend this book a feeling of pathos that goes far beyond its historicity. Here, Stalin is seen as the man that he was, and his monstrosity is only magnified under that understanding.	2002-09-19
1404222:US	53084041	R3R71OX47BJAVO	0755100859	70142547	Shape of Further Things	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fascinating	This is non-fiction from Aldiss, not really on any particular subject, or arranged with any goal in mind, but a conversation between himself and the reader, importuned by a January 1969 night's conversation between himself and Christopher Evans. If I may not be too bold, it's much the same as what I imagine First Impressions to be, although Aldiss has me soundly beat in terms of far-ranging intellectual discourse. We all have to start somewhere, though.<br />Although in some ways this book is trapped in the time at which it was written, it also overcomes such by realizing that it would be. The title, of course, refers back to H.G. Wells' Shape of Things to Come (or, at least I think that's right). Aldiss tries to live up to that earlier volume by playing the prophet as well. And, like most prophecies when looked back on with hindsight, it's interesting to note the things that didn't come to pass more than what he's gotten right. This is also a biographical and historical document as it relates the rise of SF in Britain, as well as describing some of the inner workings of the New Wave. Thanks to Paul di Filippo for sending this book to me (a perfect way to make sure I read your recommendation!).	2002-09-19
1404345:US	53084041	RDUSXQQ9LXI1K	0670811491	461196309	Between the Woods and the Water	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A crash course in eastern europe	Fermor traveled by foot from the Hook of Holland to Constantiople; this book is the second volume of his remembrances of that trip, starting off halfway through the journey at Budapest (where the previous volume, A Time of Gifts, left off). Oh, wait, I didn't mention that he made this trip in 1934 when he was 18. The book is an incredibly dense package of flora and fauna, history and action, characters and settings. For someone as unfamiliar as I about this area, it provided a crash course in providing for an understanding of the region.	2002-09-19
1404701:US	53084041	R3PTP0HX6TCLER	0553247379	736963149	The Mother Hunt	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A style all his own	I was surprised to find that I had been given this book four years ago. Time does fly, it seems, because I find it hard to believe that I've been working my way through the Wolfe books for over four years. But it's true. I am nearing the end, however, and Stout isn't failing yet. While I'm slightly disappointed to discover that every Wolfe novel revolves around not just a mystery, but a murder, I can also understand that this was Stout's formula for the Wolfe stories and to wish it different would be like wishing that Wodehouse had written westerns. Stout continues to be increasingly frank regarding sex in these books--I wonder if the books written in the 70s will go even further. I doubt it. Too much more change in this area and it wouldn't be the same formula.	2002-09-18
1404834:US	53084041	R3PER7E07AEZJ5	0345365887	515366187	Light elements: Essays in science from gravity to levity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Learning should always be this fun	Named after her award-winning column in Discover  magazine, Light Elements is a collection of essays that appeared there and a few originals, on topics roughly categorized as either Animal, Vegetable, Mineral, or General. Stone's style is like crossing Dave Barry, Stephen Jay Gould, and a generic magazine interviewer--and what a party that menage a trois would have been! She has a tendancy to go for the pun, but her word choice while doing so ranges so far across the field, and the informational content between the puns is so high, that you find yourself grinning rather than wincing. The topics are an incredible mixture of commercial science (a microwaveable hot fudge sundae?) to research speculation (the physiological aspects of humor). Just a list of topics is fun: ozone-destroying cattle, mummification of dead pets, thorny security fences (bushes, not bush league), velcro, dental psychology, why people wince at the sound of fingernails on a blackboard, the culture of country music bars (and I bet you thought there wasn't any), jumping and reeking roaches, the cheese detective and nouveaux punctuation. Don Norman, who I've been raving about recently, even pops up as part of an essay entitled &quot;Voodoo Ergonomics.&quot; As a blurb on the cover says, &quot;If science had been this funny in school, maybe you would have listened.&quot; Maybe you will now.	2002-09-18
1404842:US	53084041	R3IR0EVLF9QN9J	0312866097	561606943	Icehenge	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Phil Dick ideas, Thomas Pynchon style	I've long had to admit that while I liked Stan Robinson's writing, I had never read any of his novels, just his short stories in magazines and collections. No more, although the case could be made that Icehenge is a collection of three novellas. In fact, parts of Icehenge were published as \\"To Leave a Mark\\" (in The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction) and \\"On the North Pole of Pluto\\" (in Orbit 21). This is the reason why I picked Icehenge to read first, before Robinson's first published novel, The Wild Shore; that is, to satisfy my anal retentive (does that have a hyphen?) desire for reading things chronologically. Icehenge is three stories inter-connected, each from a different time period and point of view. The first tells of Emma Weil and the Martian Unrest. The second of Nederland and his archaelogical investigation into the Unrest. And last is Doya, who questions whether Nederland's \\"proof\\" is actually an ingenuous hoax. Complicated? Yes, but also done in such a way that the convolutions are easy to follow. Robinson admires Philip K. Dick--his graduate thesis was on Dick's novels--and it shows in the theme of this book: what is real? What can we trust?  Several people have recommended his latest novel, Red Mars, to me, and I do intend to read it...after I finally read all these others of his that have been sitting on my to-be-read shelf for far too long.	2002-09-18
1405097:US	53084041	R27MIGF5I5YTUS	0553234463	796221719	Homicide Trinity (Nero Wolfe)	Books	4	2	8	N	N	After awhile, you really can't say anymore about these	A collection of three novellas featuring Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin. After awhile, there's not really much one can say about Stout's mysteries. They are always well done--I remember reading someone saying that Rex Stout never wrote a bad sentence, and I have yet to prove that false. But there really isn't much here that distinguishes these novellas from any of the other collections.	2002-09-18
1405112:US	53084041	RHQ7M46Q6OU7P	0140138862	900807093	The Friendly Shakespeare: A Thoroughly Painless Guide to the Best of the Bard	Books	4	4	4	N	N	fun, with enough serious stuff for later contemplation	Although this is billed as a book about Shakespeare and his work for people who don't like it (of which I am definately not numbered), I learned a lot about the plays and the periods in which they've been performed since to make this book worthwhile. For example, I hadn't known that the sonnet sequence for the most part is from an older man to a fair young boy. This isn't the idea of some fringe group either, but accepted by most Shakespearean scholars. Knowing this fact can certainly add a different level of meaning to many of the sonnets (&quot;Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?&quot;).<br />Aside from the increased knowledge I gained of the texts, this book really helped me place the work against the time period that it was written for, and how people have viewed it since. Ms. Epstein's best analogy for aiding modern readers in grasping how Shakespeare was viewed in his day is comparing him with a writer for TV (strangely enough, a Twilight Zone episode did this as well). People who went to the Globe in 1600 went to see a &quot;All in the Family Royal&quot; or a &quot;Three, Well That's Company&quot; starring their favorite actor, Richard Burbage. The writer? Do you know who the writer of your favorite TV show is? Will &quot;Cheers&quot; be the &quot;Much Ado About Nothing&quot; of the 24th century? Or, even worse, will &quot;Married . . . with Children&quot;? (By the way, if you have any interest in Shakespeare, I strongly recommend Kenneth Branaugh's new version of &quot;Much Ado.&quot; While Keanu Reeves is stilted, and Michael Keaton possesses Dogberry with the spirit of Beetlejuice, for the most part the film is a joy, especially any time that Branaugh or Emma Thompson is on the screen.)<br />Rather than summarize the plays (which only details the plots, which quite often weren't of Shakespeare's invention), Epstein attempts to comment on the play, quoting critical and personal reactions. She also presents some small interviews with some of the most famous Shakespearean's living, about parts and plays most commonly associated with them. I was disappointed because the book was incomplete. Although I agree with her dismissal of &quot;Julius Caesar,&quot; she only goes into detail on &quot;The Tempest&quot; alone among the romantic plays, and misses quite a few of my favorite comedies as well. The books is quite a brick as it is, but this is due more to the large print and often wasted space between sections rather than the amount of words contained.<br />I read The Friendly Shakespeare from cover to cover, but it is well suited to be picked up and read from anywhere within its pages, most sections being only two pages long. For the bardolator and bard-avoider alike, Epstein's book is a lot like her subject--entertaining and fun, with enough serious matter for later contemplation.ous Shakespearean's living, about parts and plays most commonly associated with them. I was disappointed because the book was incomplete. Although I agree with her dismissal of &quot;Julius Caesar,&quot; she only goes into detail on &quot;The Tempest&quot; alone among the romantic plays, and misses quite a few of my favorite comedies as well. The books is quite a brick as it is, but this is due more to the large print and often wasted space between sections rather than the amount of words contained.<br />I read The Friendly Shakespeare from cover to cover, but it is well suited to be picked up and read from anywhere within its pages, most sections being only two pages long. For the bardolator and bard-avoider alike, Epstein's book is a lot like her subject--entertaining and fun, with enough serious matter for later contemplation.	2002-09-18
1405160:US	53084041	RWMKX0F73HW9Z	9997402537	276562341	Goodbye Look	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Chandleresque	I picked this one up because of the numerous good reviews that Macdonald has received over the years, and his obvious prolificity. The Goodbye Look is supposed to be his best, and while it is very good, it is a style of mystery that isn't quite to my taste. Macdonald is very much like Raymond Chandler. His hero is a rough, ready, and usually untalkative type who goes through a mystery case as gently as he downs a fifth of scotch. The mystery is also very Chandleresque--several dysfunctional families, incestuously lying and cheating their way to unhappiness. If you like Chandler, you'll like Ross Macdonald. However, based on my impression of this book, if you want more characterization, try John D. McDonald.	2002-09-18
1405303:US	53084041	R2D8U8C60RG55H	0553292250	616663200	Against A Dark Background	Books	3	13	17	N	N	I've come to expect more from Banks	Surprisingly enough, this latest SF novel by Banks reminded me as much of Zindell's Neverness as of Banks' earlier SF. Maybe it's because I'd read Zindell's novel recently, and because Banks and Zindell are both writing &quot;Space Opera&quot; yet enlivening it with modern sensibility. Banks remains irrestiably readable, even when the novel is nothing more than an adventure novel with a few flourishes. Like Use of Weapons, Against a Dark Background centers around family relationships moving people and events around like a grand chess game. This novel is separate from Banks' other SF, however, which is grouped under the name of the &quot;universe&quot; that it is set in, the Culture. I think I prefer the Culture universe. At least, it seems to make more sense to me. I never quite grabbed the scale to which time and space moved in Against a Dark Background. Many things seemed invented solely to provide a different setting or mood when the story demanded it, rather than actually being true world building. Still, the individual constructions--the Sea House, the Lazy Gun, the World Court, the Huyze brotherhood, the characters, the weird animals, the political/religious/social sectors--are simply wonderful, each unique yet familiar as well.<br />What this novel really lacks is the twist that I've come to expect from Banks. Or, maybe the twist is there, but because I know Banks, I looked for it and expected it, and wasn't surprised as I should be. Which might mean that Banks has achieved a formula that has become predictable in its unpredictability. All in all, Against a Dark Background is not a worthless experience, but Banks has done much better in other books (I suggest The Player of Games for SF, Espedair Street for non-SF).	2002-09-18
1405357:US	53084041	RNN41CXGOQ86H	0201581248	467416341	Turn Signals Are The Facial Expressions Of Automobiles	Books	2	5	7	N	N	A mixed bag	I liked The Psychology of Everyday Things so much that I picked this latest volume of Norman's up when I saw it in the store. Unlike POET, which was one long thesis on psychology and design, Turn Signals is a collection of essays on those topics. As such, it lacks the coherence of POET, but gains emphasis by focusing on specific topics covered only slightly in POET. First off, Norman relates how the title for POET has been changed to The Design of Everyday Things, because of a misconception in what the book was about and who the book was for, exactly the kind of common mistake that he was attempting to expose in the book. Then he moves on to topics like the design of airplane cockpits, the use of book jackets in libraries, using the refrigerator door as a message center, the electronic personal assistant, as well as the title essay on clues that we receive from other people versus clues we receive from machines. I like Norman, and his topic, and will be on the lookout for his other book, Things that Make Us Smart.	2002-09-18
1405369:US	53084041	R13CPRTF2C74DO	0399137599	247619839	Steel Beach	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Great beginning, poor follow-through	This has one of the most audacious beginning lines--an opening worthy of Harlan Ellison, famous for his eyeball-kicking first lines. \\"The penis will be obsolete within 5 years.\\" What a great line. Unfortunately, Steel Beach is downhill from there. It's a slow downhill slope, and I kept expecting for the novel to start moving upward as I was reading through it, but a downer it is.<br />Somebody on rec.arts.sf.written had heard that this was a Heinlein pastiche, but couldn't reconcile that with their experience of Heinlein, because, they said, \\"Steel Beach was boring, filled with long monologues on immortality.\\" Ha, I say. Name me a better description of Time Enough for Love, I dare you. In fact, if we compare Steel Beach with later Heinlein, Steel Beach really shines. There's enough thought and adventure here for any Heinlein fan who can stomach all the extraneous words. And, better yet, there's at least an ending here that is consistent with what went before. The conclusion is long and anti-climactic, but at least it is there, which is more than can be said about The Cat Who Walks Through Walls.<br />Maybe I'm being rough on Varley. This novel came out against some stiff competition, including Connie Willis' wonderful Doomsday Book and Michael Bishop's satiric view on art in Count Geiger's Blues. Maybe--probably--I expected more after a ten-year hiatus. I should remind myself that Varley spent a large part of those ten years toiling in Hollywood, not necessarily conditions conducive to improving or even maintaining one's artistic merit. Maybe I should be thankful that Steel Beach isn't any worse than it is. And, if Varley's learned his lesson, maybe there won't be a ten-year gap before the next.	2002-09-18
1405494:US	53084041	R2NMN6G1MFKIA3	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Stunning Achievement	I am stunned.<br />How often do you finish a book, slowly turning the back cover to close, as the hair on the back of your arms twitches upward with the electricity of mingled pleasure and sadness? This happens less often for me as I grow older, but at this moment I sit stunned for I have just finished this wonderful book by Ms. Byatt and I am not yet willing to surrender the feeling. Yet, I also am urged to write this. The best writing--storytelling--does this to me. Even as I marvel at what I have just experienced, I also am goaded to try my hand at miracles as well, like the child who sees the magician at school and rushes home to ask the parents for a magic set. Like a child I am, to want to sit at the same table as Ms. Byatt, but yet I must, for maturity begins by imitating adults.<br />Possession is a book about words, so how unsurprising that I was thinking of these words that I would write upon finishing its words. I made mental notes to myself--&quot;remember this passage&quot; or &quot;here, here is a meaning not to be forgotten.&quot; I can only hope to do justice to my past impressions of this book in this first impression. First of all, this was not an easy book to read. As I commented to some people when I was only a hundred or so pages into it, the plot so far is the ultimate in boring, yet the writing is so good that I find myself continuing to read. Then I got stuck.<br />But I must stop and give a little summary of the actions in the book for those who haven't read it. There is a story within a story. The outer story is the discovery by Roland Mitchell of an instance in the great poet Randolph Henry Ash's life previously unaware to scholars, namely a connection with a little-known poet named Christabel LaMotte. The story of LaMotte and Ash forms the inner story. As a character says,<br />&quot;Literary critics make natural detectives...You know the theory that the classic detective story arose with the classic adultery novel--everyone wanted to know who was the Father, what was the origin, what is the secret?&quot;<br />What is the secret, indeed. The need to know the secret, to possess it, spurs Roland to track down the elusive link between Ash and LaMotte.<br />While the story of the two poets is beautiful and complex in its own right, the meta-story of Roland and the rest of the Ash/LaMotte scholars has a lot to commend it as well. Although the beginning seems to be about boring, dry academics, Byatt is actually setting up the characters in the best way, showing you what they are like, and when things start moving later, nothing seems unnatural.<br />The title says so much. This is a story of &quot;possession&quot; in all its myriad meanings, just as words so often do double and triple duty in the best poems. I am tempted to go through every definition of the word in the O.E.D. and then cite an example from the book, but instead I'll just do a sampling. When Roland discovers the letters that begins the search (and the novel), instead of presenting them to his supervisor, Prof. Blackadder, he keeps them in his possession. The possession of the letters and memorabilia from Ash's life is a consuming interest of the American counterpoint to Blackadder, Mortimer Cropper. Ash declares himself to be possessed by LaMotte; Roland and his partner, Maud Bailey, are possessed by the search. These are just a few of the many aspects of possession in the book.<br />I said before that I had gotten &quot;stuck&quot; in the book. About a hundred pages in, Roland and Maud discover a correspondence between Ash and LaMotte that fills about 35 pages. Byatt captures the Victorian letter style perfectly, almost too perfectly for this modern reader. Full of run-on sentences--often connection by dash after dash--the letters are of utmost importance to the plot, just as the Ash and LaMotte poems that grace the beginnings of each chapter. However, a modern reader understands how to read poems. The letters I tried to read as part of the novel rather than as letters, and immediately found myself frustrated and bored. I put the book down and read something else before returning to trudge my way through the letters. After that, the book was a joy to read. The poet Christabel LaMotte is quoted in the book as saying, &quot;A writer only becomes a true writer by practising his craft, as a great artist may experience with clay or oils until the medium becomes second nature, to be moulded however the artist may desire.&quot; This could very well be the reason why I write these impressions.<br />I looked at Possession in the store when it first was published and several times after. I had finally made a decision that I wasn't going to read it, based on my perception of the subject material and its length. However, Mike Godwin recommended this book. I'm glad that he did, and I now pass on his recommendation with my own. This is a wonderful book.he novel rather than as letters, and immediately found myself frustrated and bored. I put the book down and read something else before returning to trudge my way through the letters. After that, the book was a joy to read. The poet Christabel LaMotte is quoted in the book as saying, &quot;A writer only becomes a true writer by practising his craft, as a great artist may experience with clay or oils until the medium becomes second nature, to be moulded however the artist may desire.&quot; This could very well be the reason why I write these impressions.<br />I looked at Possession in the store when it first was published and several times after. I had finally made a decision that I wasn't going to read it, based on my perception of the subject material and its length. However, Mike Godwin recommended this book. I'm glad that he did, and I now pass on his recommendation with my own. This is a wonderful book.	2002-09-18
1405562:US	53084041	R1JMF1U7QE85VF	0140107649	628267082	Blue Heaven (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Channeling Wodehouse through Gay New York	This was another author mentioned ... in response to the inquiry for Wodehouse-like authors (some of the others were Lawrence Durrell, E.F. Benson, Tom Sharpe, and Tom Holt). Keenan is not only like Wodehouse, if he were any younger, I'd be tempted to say he was Wodehouse reincarnated....P>But enough about Wodehouse--this is Keenan's work, and fine work it is. The narrator is Philip Cavanaugh, a struggling lyricist on Broadway, who is also gay. His friend, Gilbert Selwyn, is also gay and a man with an allergy to work, and who has just shocked their circle of friends by announcing that he plans to marry--a woman! Not just any woman, either, but Moira Finch, a conniving she-animal with a history of bad investments. Gilbert lets Philip in on the scheme because he needs Philip to help pull it off. Gilbert and Moira are actually getting married because of the expensive gifts that they expect to receive from their respective wealthy families. The catch? There's plenty, the most important of which is the fact that everything Gilbert ever gets involved with usually goes bad.<br />If I say any more, I'm going to start giving away too much. Suffice to say that this novel was incredibly funny, and that I've got the sequel, Putting on the Ritz, and it's calling me.	2002-09-18
1405620:US	53084041	R288RMQAURS1OT	0140013717	615490615	The Little Nugget	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Wodehouse's Crime Years	Like the last Wodehouse I read, this is more like Damon Runyon than later Plum. I suspect that this was written when Wodehouse first visited America and was trying to break into the American markets (it would be interesting to compare this impression with Wodehouse's biography and see what it has to say about the Runyonesque qualities of these early novels). The Little Nugget of the title refers to the only son of an American millionaire, the nickname given to him by the American hoodlums who want to kidnap him and hold him for ransom. Wodehouse spends a lot of verbiage describing how odious the Little Nugget is, but yet the plot isn't really about the kid's nature, but his value.<br />There was one bit that was perfect, especially considering I had just read The Friendly Shakespeare. One of the characters is mistaken for the famous American criminal &quot;Smooth Sam Fisher.&quot; Actually, he's not just mistaken--the other character insists that he is Sam Fisher. The response? &quot;Verily, some have greatness thrust upon them.&quot; Wodehouse was quite a lover of Shakespeare, and it would be quite a large project to list all the Shakespearean allusions, puns, and outright quotes in his books . . . but it's certainly fun when you do catch one yourself.	2002-09-18
1405651:US	53084041	R1SDUI9REGIFND	0525209816	651218479	Stiff Upper Lip	Books	2	7	10	N	N	a brief diversion	A while back on rec.arts.books, someone asked for any recommendations of authors like P.G. Wodehouse. In the ensuing responses, this thin little volume by Durrell was mentioned. I recognized Durrell's name from my research into travel literature, and thought I'd give his humor a try. These are short stories, told to an unseen chronicler (and fellow diplomat) by an older collegue named Antrobus. The service is foreign, in a generic country name Vulgaria (a cute little dig at snobbish English diplomats). While the language is quite pleasant, and some of the situations quite amusing, what Durrell is missing is that sense of plot known as the conclusion (or, as a character says here, &quot;the pay off&quot;). Durrell tries, but never seems to get it right. I enjoyed it as a brief diversion (the book is less than 90 pages), but doubt I'll be looking for more.	2002-09-18
1405721:US	53084041	RI6BRQ8ZZ7X8E	0931969255	878929969	See Them Die	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Now we're getting somewhere...	The writing's still a bit purple, but finally we see a glimpse of the McBain to come--the McBain that knows what a mystery is and knows how to show it to us rather than tell it to us. The set-up on this book is simple--in the first chapter, McBain tells us that two people are going die this day. From then on, character after character, and situation after situation, is introduced, and everytime you think, \\"ah-ha! here's the one that's going to die,\\" McBain pulls the rug out and disaster is averted. Or, when someone gets shot and you think, \\"no, this isn't the person to die, can't be,\\" well, you're wrong. There really isn't a mystery per se here, but there is a quite a bit of tension and surprise. Also, McBain kills off a repeating character in such an unexpected manner, showing you the difference between his series and those of other mystery writers. For other writers, the characters are king. Pick up any Nero Wolfe novel, and you know that Nero, Archie, Fritz, Saul and Inspector Cramer will be there. Not so with McBain. His character is the 87th Precinct, and no matter who the cops and villains are, it is the city and the precinct that will be there.	2002-09-18
1405729:US	53084041	R18Y9WMFK59HOQ	0393316041	33679552	Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (Adventures of a Curious Character)	Books	3	5	13	N	N	In his own words	Although I'd heard of Feynman for years now--people I know were excited by the Feynman Lectures volumes--I didn't really know who he was. Oh, I could probably have given you the fact that he was a physicist, and maybe that he had won the Nobel prize, and just recently Jill told me about a Feynman anecdote that she had read by Stephen Jay Gould. After Surely You're Joking, I know much more about Feynman, and why he interests people. As far from the stereotype of the scientist that you can get, yet still having some geeky characteristics that he wasn't afraid to admit to, Surely You're Joking is a portrait of the man in his own words. In fact, the best way to approach this book is as if you had stumbled on to it in a dimly-lit bar, sat down next to it, exchanging turns buying drinks and talking about each other. Just like a conversation, some things are funny, some things don't make sense, and--as a one-sided conversation--they all revolve around a singe subject.	2002-09-18
1405753:US	53084041	R1NN8M9YNW038N	0929480732	264266766	The Golden	Books	3	4	10	N	N	The writing is stellar, the plot isn't	My original comparison for this book was Gene Wolfe writing an issue of Marvel Comics' \\"Tomb of Dracula.\\" This is not a \\"mean\\" comparison. I tend to use Wolfe when I want to compare a someone to the pinnacle of excellent writing in a genre (I compare Wolfe himself to Borges or Shakespeare, depending on how effusive I'm feeling). And, as far as comics go, I liked \\"Tomb of Dracula.\\" But, on the other hand, I am damning Shepard with faint praise as well. Although The Golden has some excellent writing in it  the novel ultimately strikes me as unfulfilling. There's a lot of wonderful visuals and high language, but underneath that, it's still a comic book This is also well worth reading if you are a Shepard fan. But I'd hesitate to recommend this blindly.	2002-09-18
1407063:US	53084041	R2HOSRIMVN9WFI	0465067093	323452923	The Psychology Of Everyday Things	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Well, this explains a LOT	In a way, this is a self-help book. But to call it that is to damn it, so instead we must term it something else. The appellation, however distasteful, fits for POET (as Norman abbreviates it, later retitled The Design of Everyday Things) goes a long way in explaining just exactly why and how we make everyday mistakes, and how we can help ourselves and others escape these problems. I believe it was Pat Cadigan who I first heard sum up this book in the memorable phrase, \\"I didn't fail the technology; the technology failed me.\\" Every time I find myself pushing on the hinge side of a door to open it, or push the door when I should have pulled, I quote that phrase. It wasn't me who failed to understand how the door work--the door failed to provide me with the necessary clues to work it. User error, as Norman notes in POET, is a misnomer; many, many times it is a design error.<br />This book should be read by everyone, I think, for it deals with everybody. I know of no one who has not cursed at a computer program, or some door, or similar. But only by demanding \\"user centered design\\" can we escape the tyranny of form over function. To illustrate, take the example of file names in DOS. Yes, we have achieved the standardization of 8 character names and 3 character extensions. But this is an outdated and frustration convention. It is a holdover from CP/M days (I believe) when computers lacked the memory and storage capacity of today's computers. But until enough people demand a change, this inefficient and confusing convention will be with us. Macintosh owners, although free of this particular evil, can no doubt recall various designs that they wish to change as well. The difference is in philosophy: the Macintosh was designed first for the user, and it is only the \\"creeping featurism\\" of established programs today that threaten its user friendliness.	2002-09-16
1407070:US	53084041	R34JHSRUBARGIX	0575072342	527505688	Of Men and Monsters (Gollancz SF Collectors' Edition)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Of Humor, Dark and Biting	This novel recalled for me a Thomas M. Disch novel that I read back in high school. I'm not sure of the title at the moment, but I think it was The Puppies of Terra. Tenn's novel could easily be retitled The Cockroaches of Terra. Earth has been invaded, and conquered, by giant beings. Mankind is still alive--underground and in the walls of the houses built by the monsters. The first part of the book reads like your typical post-holocaust story: young man seeks acceptance in the new order of society, which gives the author plenty of chance to show you how things have changed. Luckily, Tenn has an agenda, and we quickly move beyond the standard hunter/gatherer phase into a darkly satiric view of humans. Tenn is supposedly a very funny author, but in Of Men and Monsters, it's all black (as in Disch's novels).	2002-09-16
1407146:US	53084041	RLHY4D1E8K4I5	0345277368	805125383	Texas-Israeli War: 1999	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Better than the title makes it sound, but....	Everyone has to start somewhere. That's the first rule of writing. And the best thing to do is acknowledge the rule and try not to regret the fumbling beginnings too much. The important thing is what you are doing now. The second rule of writing is \\"Don't give up the day job.\\" It's the day job that allows you to have ethics, that allows you to write for your own muse rather than Paramount's or Byron Preiss'. There comes a time when you forego the day job and try to make it on your wits and it backfires. As you stumble along, trying to reach out forward rather than backwards to the day job, you grab onto the quick buck. Was that the scenario for The Texas-Israeli War: 1999? Probably not, because, for its flaws, The Texas-Israeli War: 1999 is not calculated enough to make that quick buck. But neither is it inspired enough to contain the full muse that Howard Waldrop has followed since that time (and I refuse to blame the co-author for any perceived flaws; Waldrop must share what praise or blame there is equally).<br />The Texas-Israeli War: 1999 is an adventure novel. These days it would probably be published by Baen rather than Del Rey, because of its focus on military equipment and maneuvering. While the story stays within the Baen military style, it contains that inspired spark that I associate with Waldrop. The descriptions of military things reads true because Howard probably read about it in Jane's Fighting something-or-other. The story fails, however, in its portrayal of certain \\"political\\" aspects. The intrigue surrounding the SS-like Sons of the Alamo; the President Pro-Tem, and his motivations, ring tinny.<br />Pick up Howard's Them Bones or A Dozen Tough Jobs, and come back to this one only if you are a completist.	2002-09-16
1407289:US	53084041	R367RS25WO7WGW	0441777759	504660813	Spacetime Donuts	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A magical physics tour	A weird one from Rucker, but then, that's kind of a redundancy; everything from the mind of Rucker has a weird stance. This one posits the idea that space/time is a continuum, and circular in nature. That is, if one was to increasingly make oneself smaller and smaller, after passing through the various levels (atomic, subatomic, etc.) one would then start progressing through space (universe, galaxy, solar system, etc.). Like Robert Anton Wilson's \\"Schrodinger's Cat\\" trilogy, Spacetime Donuts posits the theory, then fits a story around what it might be like if that theory were true. Rucker's writing style, at least in this early novel, is most similar to the early novels of Philip K. Dick, but whereas Dick was focused on the nature of reality from a psychological and philosophical viewpoint, Rucker comes at it from a mathematical and physical view.	2002-09-16
1407297:US	53084041	R39JTAXTUGCX7T	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A cultural artifact	In an attempt to get culturally on-line, I decided to rectify a missing portion of influential pop culture in the form of the guru of gonzo, Dr. Hunter S. Thompson. I realized that I had been missing something when I started noticing several biographies on Thompson on the bookstore shelves. If he's being bio'ed, I thought to myself, that must mean he's dead, or as good as. If the account in Fear and Loathing is anywhere near that fickle creature called truth, chances are he's been as good as dead for years now.<br />Fear and Loathing is a cultural artifact, an attempt to tell things as they were in the early 70s, to be totally realistic about the journalistic process, in a true post-modern manner (that is, not separating the teller from the tale). Unfortunately--or fortunately, depending on your viewpoint--it's tough to be totally realistic when you're always strung out on: (take your pick) cocaine, alcohol, methamphetamines, ether, LSD, and numerous other mind-altering substances. As a reader, you find the constant drug taking a little tiring after awhile, not in a bored sense, but in a sense of amazement at how anyone could punish their body so.<br />And the reader is punished somewhat here as well, although when Thompson is funny--as when he and his attorney convince a podunk lawman from Atlanta that drugs are out (crime wise) in L.A., and that the real problem now is satanic rituals--he's found a style and medium that emphasizes and broadens the humor. And I can't say that I didn't like that style--I went out and bought The Great Shark Hunt after finishing this.	2002-09-16
1407650:US	53084041	RQAA1V9NXI3V8	0586205365	387736113	Neverness	Books	3	24	26	N	N	a great start	Zindell's first novel, and it is epic SF in the grand tradition. Epic? Yes. It is long (552 pages in the paperback edition), set on a grand scale (the main character works his way up from an initiate star pilot to godhead), full of esoteric musings on the nature of mathematics, life and love. Gee, sounds a bit like Dune, doesn't it? The comparison is apt. Each chapter here starts with a quote, mainly from a fictitious book; the plot involves both personal mysteries as well as scientific mysteries; the plot centers around the only son of a &quot;ruling&quot; dynasty; and there are guilds and trades with strange and bizarre powers. But Zindell, for all these similarities, has not copied Herbert. He's also thrown in quite a bit of Aldiss, Heinlein and Sturgeon. This is not a novel for a first-time SF reader. It's like modern jazz, in which the latest work is composed of variations on previous themes, and while the new listener might be able to enjoy it, chances are that they will have a difficult time understanding it.<br />The real problem with Neverness, however, is in its pacing. Some episodes seem to drag on interminably, while others fly past at the speed of light. Part of this is due to the fact that at least one section had been published previously as a stand-alone short story, and it may be true that other sections were written to stand alone as well. But, even given the above, this is an impressive achievement as a first novel. There's a lot of imagination here in world- and culture-building, and the writing, while not spectacular, isn't dry or stilted either. With some more maturity as a writer, Zindell could be a major contender.	2002-09-16
1409687:US	53084041	R3CQ1WPTO863SK	038072345X	736730873	ANNO DRACULA                PB	Books	4	6	8	N	N	It was a bloody good year	Kim Newman acknowledges Howard Waldop (among many others) in the back of this book, with the note, \\"I'm not worthy.\\" I disagree. Newman has his own take on alternate history, and there's room enough for him, even around the legendary Waldrop. In all actuality, Anno Dracula isn't alternate history--it's alternate fiction, because Newman's stepping off point from the norm isn't in any history book, but Bram Stoker's Dracula  (in fact, on page 249 of Leonard Wolf's annotated edition, recently updated as The Essential Dracula). To compare Newman with another author, you might say that Anno Dracula is the horror novel that Philip Jose Farmer would have written if he still did that sort of thing (instead of collaborating with that ... Piers Anthony), for Anno Dracula also pulls in Inspector Lestrade, Dr. Jekyll, Dr. Moreau, Mycroft Holmes, among others. In fact, after awhile, I started wondering if my pulp education had missed something in that I did not recognize where the protagonist, Charles Beauregard, came from (although I did finally recognize the origin of Genevieve from the references to Camilla). There's one page that reads as an homage to all the vampires in fiction, and any vampire trivia fan's nightmare. But Anno Dracula is more than a mere bundle of literary in-jokes. It's also a well-written adventure novel, in the vein (pun intended) of Tim Powers, to mention yet another author. While it is marketed as a horror novel, and has a requisite amount of gore and teeth, I felt that the noveau term \\"dark fantasy\\" fits it better, or even steampunk, to once again compare it to Powers and books like The Anubis Gates and Jeter's Infernal Devices. I used to read Interzone fairly regularly, and Newman was quite a staple of that magazine in recent years. I was never overly impressed by his writing there, although I recognized that he had talent. Given Anno Dracula, however, I'd be willing to give Newman several other chances.	2002-09-13
1409915:US	53084041	R2XDJSFSY75SI1	094443939X	454732916	The Muddy Fork & Other Things: Short Fiction and Nonfiction	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Mystery miscellany	Crumley's an original who doesn't write enough. Like the characters of his books, he's a hard drinker, and it unfortunately affects the output. But would he be the same writer if he wasn't the same drinker? We'll never know, so we'll just have to enjoy what precious little escapes. In The Muddy Fork there's a little bit of everything, most of it illuminating on Crumley, as well as on the slightly seamy side of the West. This is the modern Western, warts and all, as unlike John Wayne as cyberpunk is unlike Asimov. My favorite stuff here is the non-fiction, but the short fiction and the brief interview is worthwhile. The novel excerpts (from uncompleted novels) I could have missed, at least while Crumley is still alive and the possibility remains that he may finish one of these.	2002-09-13
1410229:US	53084041	R23XDGLRICX7GK	0449224767	809913661	A Tan and Sandy Silence (Travis McGee Mysteries)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	I just can't stop reading these things	Another Travis McGee book. This one seemed to take forever to get going, to set up the problem, and then as soon as you understood the problem, MacDonald popped you a good one, and the rest of the book was a catch-up from that moment. But that's the simple &quot;mystery&quot; of this McGee novel, and as such is never that special. The attraction of McGee, at least in these later books, are MacDonald's comments within them on the human condition, both specifically with regard to the Quixotish nature of McGee, as well as a general feeling of malaise which centers around money and violence. The McGee novels are as much about philosophy--ethics, particularly--as they are about mystery. Or maybe the point is that the philosophy is the mystery, and as we get to know McGee better, we understand more about his philosophy. I seem to remember the Spenser novels of Robert Parker to be similar to this as well. Are there other mystery series in which the character growth is as important, if not more so, than the particular story of the time?	2002-09-13
1410233:US	53084041	R1VY3V21BI3J2X	0385263473	874041483	Novelty: Four Stories	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Artistically nouvelle	A collection of four novellas from John Crowley, perhaps best known as the author of Little, Big. I admire Crowley's writing, although, like Howard Waldrop's, I often don't follow everything that's going on. In particular in this volume, I was lost in the time travel story, &quot;Great Work of Time.&quot; History was never one of my strong suits, so I guess I shouldn't wonder why I'm not that attracted by alternate history. &quot;In Blue&quot; and &quot;Novelty&quot; were both reminiscent of stories that I had previously read in SF, but done with an artistic frame of mind.<br />For me it was &quot;The Nightengale Sings at Night&quot; that made this collection worthwhile. One of the hoariest clich&eacute;s of SF is the Adam and Eve story, and although &quot;Nightengale&quot; has Adam and Eve in it, it is nowhere near the clich&eacute;. That's because the starting point of this story is the creation--that same moment in Genesis--whereas the clich&eacute; ends at the creation. Crowley, although &quot;explaining&quot; an aspect of the creation myth here, is also being slightly satirical in his exploration of it. In all, it makes for a wonderful story.	2002-09-13
1410374:US	53084041	RHXYQIO9BSV1V	038070871X	469575403	Chase the Morning	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Ahoy, matey, a worthy effort, but on the plank for ye now	A fun novel, recommended to me by Bob Gore, who knew that I liked pirates (especially as seen in Tim Powers' On Stranger Tides). Bob said that Chase the Morning wasn't as good, and he was right, but it was still worth reading, and worth examining to discover why it isn't as good.<br />First off, the story. Steve's a hollow young urban professional in some modern European city in which the residents speak English, visit pubs, drive nifty sports cars fast, and engage in shipping and receiving. Steve decides to chase a whim one night and finds himself rescuing a dimunitive fellow from the intent of three dark fiends. No fantasy involved however. The dimunitive fellow is just a short guy, and the fiends are simple muggers. Wrong. These people were using swords. Steve tries to shrug off the incident, although it is the most exciting thing that has happened to him in quite a long time. And he can't quite forget it, and finds himself again down by the shipyard. In no time, he finds himself involved completely, as he again saves the short guy's life, watches some kind of voodoo creature escape from a bail of hay, and then has his secretary abducted by the fiends (the \\"wolves\\").<br />It's not On Stranger Tides or A.A. Attanasio's Wyvern. There is a real sense of two different worlds colliding in Chase the Morning, rather than some alternate world (On Stranger Tides) or some new world that strangely resembles our own, but is consistent within itself (Wyvern). Chase the Morning is a fantasy novel in which someone from the real world finds fantastical things happening to them. This can be okay, except most readers are so familiar with the genre (which ranges from C.S. Lewis' \\"Narnia,\\" to Stephen R. Donaldson's \\"Thomas Covenant\\"), that the new author should know what's been done. Rohan seems somewhat attune to the genre, but I think it's obvious that he missed the Donaldson books in particular, and that his work suffers from it. In fact, trying to compare Chase the Morning with Lord Foul's Bain better brings out the problems with Rohan's book than trying to compare it with Powers, in which the only things really shared there is an idea of a milieu. That's because Steve is supposed to be an anti-hero, like Donaldson's Thomas Covenant. It's tough to write a story in which your main protagonist is an anti-hero, because a reader's first inclination is to identify with the protagonist of the story, especially in a field like fantasy, where the hero is often a thinly veiled wish fulfillment character of the reader (see Orson Scott Card's widely successful \\"Ender\\" books for the clearest recent example of the same). Covenant works because he is an intensely unlikeable character; he is often so intensely unliked that readers can't make it through the first part of Lord Foul's Bain because they can't, and don't want to try to, understand Covenant. Donaldson overcomes the problem by allowing minor characters to become personifications of the reader: the mother of the girl he rapes in the third chapter (and who knows of his atrocity) takes Covenant to the lords not because of what he could mean to \\"the Land\\" but because she hopes that they will be able to punish him (which she is unable to do because of his \\"power\\") or because she hopes that something good can become of his evil deed (that the lords can use him to save the Land). This is complex stuff for a fantasy novel.<br />Rohan's Steve, on the other hand, is a likable character. Oh, sure, he's described as hollow, but I think most readers wouldn't necessarily find that a damning description. Steve's unlikable traits are always described (told) to the reader; when the action gets going, Steve's always doing the heroic thing (shown). The reader translates this as Steve's the hero, so when the plot rolls around to using the fact that Steve's a dweeb who is worthless as a human, the reader's inclination is to say, \\"What?\\" So Chase the Morning is a flawed book. Rohan is someone with potential, though,because he realized that without the anti-hero idea, his novel was just another rehash of the same ol' dropping the modern character in the fantasy world. That is, Rohan is at least trying to go beyond formula, and while he fails, one should applaud the effort.because he realized that without the anti-hero idea, his novel was just another rehash of the same ol' dropping the modern character in the fantasy world. That is, Rohan is at least trying to go beyond formula, and while he fails, one should applaud the effort.	2002-09-13
1410508:US	53084041	RML3LG282Q9HO	1559212527	950423252	Queen Lucia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The knives are so sharp because the town is so small	I was attacted to this book (and series by Benson) because Tom Holt has written sequels to these books, and I felt like I should read the originals before searching out Holt's pastiches. I was reminded of these in a recent thread on rec.arts.books regarding writers similar to Wodehouse. Finding a [inexpensive] paperback at The Tattered Cover, I splurged the ninety-eight cents. And it was a ninety-eight cents well spent. Benson isn't Wodehouse, but then, who is? What Benson has is his own idea about the English and their manners, or what passes for manners in his idealized and satirical version of small town high society. Mrs. Emmeline Lucas--Lucia to all in the small town of Riseholme--rules her town with a iron will. She is the arbiter of all things cultural. But when Olga Bracely, the opera star, decides to take up residence in Riseholme, Lucia discovers that her thin veneer of culture can't stand up to the real thing. Watching Lucia get her comeuppance, and then re-win her social throne, is the main plot of the book. But there's also Daisy Quantock's Guru, and the mysterious medium, and the imperious Lady Ambermere, and the rest of Riseholme. Like Wodehouse, Benson has created characters that seem very familiar, and yet aren't typical stereotypes, and the fun is watching how they play against each other.	2002-09-13
1410575:US	53084041	R1H6MJHK8QTX9T	0553277634	108809819	Out on Blue Six	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Out on a limb	After my review of McDonald's short story collection, Speaking in Tongues, several people, among them Michael Sumbera, recommended to me what they felt was McDonald's best novel, Out on Blue Six. There was also some attention focused on the novel on rec.arts.sf.written, because of its similarity to Terry Gilliam's &quot;Brazil.&quot; The comparison is not misplaced, although McDonald has a different agenda than Gilliam. Both stories feature a huge government that relegates people's lives, in which a small mistake can wreak human lives. That is, both stories are satires on present governments and governmental ideas. But whereas Gilliam plays the satire to the hilt, and goes beyond simple governmental poking, but also poking at individuals within it, ultimately ending on an extremely cynical note, McDonald still feels there's hope to be had. Out on Blue Six is an extremely pyrotechnic novel, full of unknown words and weirdly impossible SF ideas; again, like Snow Crash, this isn't a hard SF novel, but rather a novel of adventure and philosophy. Stephenson pulls it off slightly better, mainly because he isn't concerned with wrapping things up in a denoument, which McDonald does with his story.	2002-09-13
1410678:US	53084041	R1Z4SHJ49WAO3X	0345280229	679587969	Warm Worlds and Otherwise	Books	5	15	15	N	N	She was a gifted writer	This is the Tiptree collection which contains the infamous introduction by Robert Silverberg in which he claims that Tiptree was not just a man, but indubitably a man, based on the text herein. Of course, Tiptree wasn't a man, which Silverberg discovered in a personal note from Alice Sheldon to himself, recounted in an afterword to his introduction in this later edition of the collection. Silverberg, it should be noted, is extremely gracious in noting his mistake, saying that Sheldon fooled him--and most everyone--beautifully and \\"called into question the entire notion of what is 'masculine' and 'feminine' in fiction.\\" While the point is well taken, as Silverberg thanks Sheldon for forcing him to examine his preconceptions once again, I note that Tiptree had good practice at imitating a man long before she began to publish as one, as many women of her generation had to. I would like to think that this is one of the things that has changed; I fear that it isn't.<br />Although Tiptree wrote masterfully about the differences and problems of the sexes (here in probably her best-known story, \\"The Women Men Don't See\\"), to me she is at her best when commenting on the general human race (here in stories like \\"The Last Flight of Dr. Ain\\" and \\"On the Last Afternoon\\"). Not only had Tiptree discovered and was able to relate the differences between the sexes, but she had also found the similarities--that is, what made us \\"human.\\" And that, to me, is the purpose of all fiction.	2002-09-13
1410742:US	53084041	R39SBMYWKLI5TL	0915765888	868431627	National Rifle Association: Money, Firepower & Fear	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Trying to get at the truth, but where's the references?	I recently found myself in a gun control debate on co.general. Wishing to back myself up with facts, I started to delve into the books and journals dedicated to this only-slightly-less-hot-than-abortion debate. Josh Sugarmann's book isn't exactly useful as a debate tool for either side of the gun control debate, because he's as damning of the organized gun control organizations as he is of the NRA and the gun lobby (which Sugarmann shows to be virtually synonymous). Sugarmann, who himself is a gun control advocate with the Violence Policy Center, thinks that \\"the truth lies somewhere in the middle\\" of the debate, and that the average American should beware of the fanatics on both sides who misuse and misconstrue the evidence of violence in our society for their own agendas. He does this by giving us the history of the National Rifle Association, which is also the history of gun control in America, and shows how the organization has shifted over the years from a sporting idea to \\"Second Amendment fundamentalism\\" that characterizes it today. Along the way he visits the topics of whether or not the Second Amendment does indeed guarantee the right for an individual to bear arms, what the real problem of firearms in society is, and the lies told by both the NRA and Handgun Control, Inc. Sugarmann's book is easily read, and damn near necessary reading for anyone who is a member of the NRA. However, I fear that any true \\"Second Amendment fundamentalist\\" will be put off by Sugarmann's book, because he often doesn't provide the necessary references for his supposedly objective statements of statistics. Which is too bad, because his book has the potential of getting at the truth in the middle.	2002-09-13
1410774:US	53084041	R8ORV0A4N362	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Just not to my taste, I guess	For some reason, Pratchett just doesn't excite me, and I wish I knew why, because I love fantasy, I love humor, and when an author joins the two you'd think I'd be in the best of both worlds.  But Pratchett leaves me cold.  I've read three or so of his books, and while I find them mildly amusing, I just can't get excited about them.<br />I heartily enjoyed his collaboration with Neil Gaiman, Good Omens, but it's been like pulling teeth to get me to try another Pratchett solo work. For some reason, I keep wanting to compare Pratchett to Piers Anthony, which is a severe low blow to Pratchett, who would have to stoop a long way to achieve the level of hackdom that Anthony has mired himself in. Still, I'd like to see Pratchett hang up the Discworld and do more stand-alones like Good Omens. At the end of this book, I asked myself if it had been worth reading. Did I learn anything? No, but I really hadn't expected to. Had I been amused? Slightly, even once laughing out loud. Was I entertained? Not enough.<br />Obviously, if you're a Pratchett fan and he does appeal to you, then ignore me.  But I'm sure there are others out there like me?  Right?	2002-09-12
1410867:US	53084041	RSFYT1RBZUBC4	0553251724	304843181	Gambit	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Stout is consistently excellent	A little stronger of a mystery this time. I would never excel as a solver of locked room mysteries, because I tend to enjoy the writing too much (when it is good) than I cultivate an ability to cull facts. Here Stout gives you plenty of clues and hints towards the solution of the murder, almost literally telling you how it was committed in the first 50 pages. I missed it completely. Another excellent Nero Wolfe novel.	2002-09-12
1410869:US	53084041	R1798YDOR3AJWD	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderfully wacky	The last great hope of cyberpunk to visit us, and one of the best and funniest, Snow Crash walks on the wild side of fiction, and struts while doing so. From page one you know this isn't a \\"normal\\" book: the first description is a pizza delivery man for the mob. If you don't get your pizza in time, the godfather feels that he has lost face, and you are personally visited by the Dom, while the \\"Deliverator\\" gets a pair of cement shoes. And that's just the beginning. The hero's name is Hiro Protagonist. It's obvious, it's absurd, but because the author knows not to snicker at his broad pun himself, it works. For this isn't just cyberpunk, although it has all the trappings; this is post-modern satire. And yet, even carrying all that dangerous literary baggage, it's also a roller-coaster ride of an adventure novel. True believers, this one's got everything.<br />I'm actually a late-comer on touting the pleasures of this novel, and usually I find myself not enjoying things when I'm slow to become culturally on-line with, for the sad fact that I like to be a leader, rather than a follower. But Snow Crash overcomes all that. I wanted to be skeptical, but found it impossible to be skeptical and to be enjoying myself so much at the same time.<br />There's a macguffin here that the hard SF freaks balk at: the new-age, Babel and Joseph Campbell influenced plot thread. To hell with them. This ain't serio-SF. This is a cross between the most biting Douglas Adams and the most pyrotechnic William Gibson, and if Stephenson feels like he wants to be Robert Anton Wilson as well, I'm willing to follow him.	2002-09-12
1410887:US	53084041	R32D0DM08Y2WMU	0684188864	191180723	Colloquium on Crime: Eleven Renowned Mystery Writers Discuss Their Work	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fascinating	A collection of essays by crime/mystery writers on writing, mysteries (writing and field), and their own experience. I found these to be genuinely motivating, very interesting and revealing. I've never thought to write a crime novel--I've always been an SF/F reader, and that's what I feel I write when I write--but I enjoy mysteries, and have done so ever since I began reading. The first two adult books I remember reading, besides the Bible, was the complete O'Henry and Sherlock Holmes. It was interesting to find writers here with similar experiences to mine--in particular, K.C. Constantine and his school problems. Of the writers in this volume (Robert Barnard, Rex Burns, Constantine, Dorothy Salisbury Davis, Michael Gilbert, Donald Hamilton, Joseph Hansen, Tony Hillerman, Reginald Hill, James McClure, and Robert B. Parker), I've only read Parker. From these essays, I am interested in reading something else by all of them with the exception of Davis and Hill.	2002-09-12
1411014:US	53084041	R1CJLORW7Q5MR4	055356370X	653777073	The Hacker Crackdown: Law And Disorder On The Electronic Frontier	Books	4	4	6	N	N	I'm biased, but I think it's great	It would be hard for me to write an unbiased view of this book, so I might as well be up front with why I was predisposed to like it. One, I know Sterling, count him as a friend, and have always liked his writing style. In fact, I credit Sterling (along with Mike Godwin, about who more later) for helping me to develop my reading palate, that is, to urge me to examine what I was reading with a critical eye, in order to discover a wider variety of interest. Two, although I'm not a hacker, I play one in my mind. Oh, I know that I'm nowhere near the anarchistic fellows of the Legion of Doom--I'm not even in the same class as Gail Thackeray, former assistant attorney General of Arizona and one of the leaders of the &quot;Crackdown&quot; of the title. But ever since my cousin showed me his modem, and what you could do with it, I've been a hacker at heart.<br />So a book like this, that attempts to show me what I've been living through for the past ten years, and, more importantly, what I've been missing, is like reading a biography of someone you know. In fact, it contains two such biographies among other things: brief sketches of both Sterling himself and Godwin, staff counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation and my former unofficial collegiate advisor.<br />But I don't think this book is of interest only to me; anyone with an electronic mail account should find this an enlightening study of the burgeoning electronic community. Sterling does an excellent job of linking today's electronic growth with the rise of the original telephone industry, pointing out some startling similarities. Sterling also comes across very even-handed, even though he admits to the fact that he has a stake in the power games that are being played out over the lines and in the courts.<br />The best thing about this book, however, is Sterling's novelististic sensibility--that is, Sterling knows what makes a story, and his non-fiction is structured with plot, dialogue, tension, revelations, and conclusion. If only more non-fiction read like this! Needless to say I strongly recommend this to everyone receiving this message.nd conclusion. If only more non-fiction read like this! Needless to say I strongly recommend this to everyone receiving this message.	2002-09-12
1411107:US	53084041	R3H938K7YZNRSL	0375727868	951460775	Rolling Nowhere: Riding the Rails with America's Hoboes	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Interesting, yet....	This book is part of the \\"Vintage Departures\\" series, a group of travel books from unusual angles.  Some examples are a book about gamblers and the gambling world, \\"back country\\" travel in the most remote parts of the world, inexperienced mountain climbers, and near poetry.  This book tries to take a different look at our own country, as as seen through the eyes of a constant traveler, the railroad tramp.<br />While it does indeed describe some of America, the author quickly loses focus on the aspect of seeing American through the eyes of the hobo to looking at hobo society itself.  For the most part, he does this latter quite well, except where he finally intrudes and makes a bald statement of his opinion, and what he deems to be the reader's opinion, in the last page.<br />Conover is refreshingly naive, in some ways, and not afraid to place his naivet&eacute; in what could be considered a work of autobiography. While I doubt someone could use this book as a manual for catching a ride on a rail, it does allow for enough detail to catch some understanding of the complexity and difficulties accompanied thereto.  As a travel book, it's interesting and worth the time.	2002-09-12
1411124:US	53084041	R3P9N2VCLQGQ5J	0679729089	495181865	Bad Trips: A Sometimes Terrifying, Sometimes Hilarious Collection of Writing on the Perils of the Road	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A place to start finding some great writing	A collection of travel writing, mainly excerpts from longer works, although a few are short essays, describing those trips that--well, did not seem quite so fun at the time, but make for great reading. I read this book as a primer and introduction to the writers therein, some of whom I plan to seek out later, including:<br />  * Stuart Stevens--Reads like Mark Salzman, probably in part due to the fact that he traveled with Salzman.<br />  * P. K. Page--Her bit on Australia was great--exactly the problems with another culture that I'm looking for.<br />  * Norman Lewis--His Golden Earth is considered a classic of travel writing and this excerpt was enough to show some of the reasons why.<br />  * Colin Thubron--He traveled in the USSR before the break-up. There will probably be a spate of books about the USSR now that it's easier to travel there, so this should be a fine slice of something not to be seen again, like Tibet before the Chinese takeover.<br />  * Paul Theroux--People had already recommended Theroux to me, and this except was a confirmation.<br />  * Mary Morris--A woman traveling alone has increased risk, and implicit bravery. This particular woman is a good writer, as well.<br />  * Charles Nicholl--More like a one-man &quot;60 Minutes&quot; team--the excerpt from his investigation on the cocaine underworld of Columbia just whetted my appetite for more.<br />  * Jonathan Raban--Sometimes our own country is the most foreign of places. Raban's trip down the Mississippi looks good.<br />  * Gavin Young--War reportage, neither sentimental nor brusque, just frighteningly real.<br />  * Graham Greene--I've never read any Greene until this, and given this, and his reputation, I plan to correct that.<br />  * Eric Hansen--More Borneo, this time on foot rather than O'Hanlon's river journey. Borneo's a strange place.<br />* Michael Asher--This is Arabia--another bit of difficult terrain.	2002-09-12
1411192:US	53084041	R1JKHIKMI18BK1	039475218X	192516063	From Heaven Lake: Travels Through Sinkiang and Tibet	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Unique viewpoint	Very well done travelogue around China. A perfect counterpoint to Salzman's Iron &amp; Silk. Salzman stayed in one spot for his sojourn in China; Seth, although he spent two years at Nanjing University, here is concerned with an impromptu hitchhiking trip through western China and Tibet. Seth isn't afraid to put some dangerous questions to his hosts and fellow travelers--questions about the cultural revolution and Red Guard, how life is now under the communists compared with before, could Tibet be a separate country once more? But the best thing about this book is Seth's viewpoint: an Indian writing about China and Tibet for an English/American audience. He takes the time to ruminate on the relations between the countries and the conditions in each country. In particular, his comparison of the living conditions of the poor and aged in China (cared for, if not greatly) and India (left destitute) was eye-opening.	2002-09-12
1411349:US	53084041	R2R35IIVXAP1D6	0864426046	58707336	A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Quintessentially English way of travel (and writing)	Quintessentially English bit of travel, with the ambitious idea of climbing Mir Samir in Afghanistan, but ostensibly to visit Nuristan next door. The English bit comes into play when you discover that Newby isn't a mountain climber, nor is his traveling friend. They &quot;practice&quot; for four days in Wales before embarking.<br />This is the type of travel literature I favor. A trip, yes, with its attendant hazards and foibles, but also a story about the travelers, why they travel and the people they meet. So far, I can sense a &quot;difference&quot; in travel writing, easily two categories now, but possibly many others. This book would join with Seth &amp; O'Hanlon as a &quot;Hardship Trip&quot;--a journey filled in pain and danger. Salzman and Mayle are &quot;Sedentary Travelers.&quot; They both got to the place, then stuck around and observed the things that happened around them. This book also has one of the best last lines I've read in quite a while. I can't quote it, because not only would it ruin the line for you in case you choose to read this book yourself, but also because it is necessary to sit through the 180 or so pages that go before to fully appreciate the irony of it.	2002-09-12
1411665:US	53084041	R22SXC10KB1JK9	006093817X	686269591	Watch Your Mouth: A Novel	Books	3	29	29	N	N	You've never read a novel quite like this	In case you haven't heard, Daniel Handler is the mastermind behind Lemony Snicket, author of the unlucky adventures of the three Baudelaire orphans. His success as Snicket seemed to have happened overnight, but he's been writing for a while it seems, with two adult novels (this one and The Basic Eight to his credit, both written before the Snicket books, I believe). In combination, it is quite clear that Handler is well on his way to becoming the 21st century Roald Dahl, who also wrote books for both adults and children that combined both whimsy and perversion.<br />And if you want perversion, you can't do much better than a comic novel about incest, which is what this book is. The structure of the book begins as an opera (it ties in to some community opera done by one of the characters), then mutates in Act III to be based on a 12-step program. Like Dahl in My Uncle Oswald, Handler isn't afraid of writing about sex, either. I was reading this on the airplane and I kept holding the book open at 90 degrees rather than the normal 180 just in case the fellow sitting next to me travelling with his young child might glance over and then alert the attendent to the pervert on the plane.<br />I'm not sure I liked this book, but I have to admit it was audacious, quite funny, and always unusual. The ending was disappointing as Handler went in for the more serious ending rather than really ending off as absurd as he began. All in all, this is an adult series of unfortunate events that is recommended for mature minds only.	2002-09-12
1411860:US	53084041	R2QNM2WRW0IDM2	0553292242	772866315	USE OF WEAPONS	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Love those twists	If I ever write a critical summary of Banks' novels, I would have to title it &quot;Beyond the Twist,&quot; for it is exactly that which is Banks' work. Where another author might come up with some of the same details, Banks makes each book his own by embodying a twist in it. This is most apparent in The Wasp Factory, where the entire novel hinges on a single fact about the narrator that is hidden from reader and narrator until the end. Similarly, Use of Weapons also relies on such a twist, but here it is hidden from the reader and the other characters; the protagonist knows the secret, and it is this that drives him and makes him complex--as well as providing for the story.<br />On rec.arts.sf.written they were discussing a particular description in this story, calling it the single most disgusting thing they had ever read. I don't know if I'm jaded, but I didn't find it so. Disgusting, yes, and nothing that I would want to see, but it was fictitious (although possible). I can think of any number of things that actually occurred in the last year that I would consider more disgusting, possibly because they weren't fiction. And I guess that's my dividing line.	2002-09-12
1411896:US	53084041	R1YYCE88TCKIQW	0451159705	191900870	The Heckler (Signet)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Getting a little repetitious	87th Precinct mystery. Steve Carella gets shot again, this time by the \\"Deaf Man.\\" This is getting a little old, this constant use of Carella as a punching bag or the character around which the \\"mystery\\" is structured (like his sister's wedding in an earlier novel). McBain has several interesting characters in the 87th, and he's done Carella to death (literally, almost). What was \\"fun\\" here? The scene in which the break goes against the Deaf Man, who has carefully calculated and elongated the odds in his favor for getting away with his burglary. There's still some horrendous overwriting here, although nothing as purple as the last novel. It's amazing, to me, that these novels were bought and published. I know why I read them now, that is, because I've read the 1980s 87th Precinct, and know how good McBain gets, but how ever did he survive long enough with work of this poor caliber? Is there a Young McBain even now creating a series that we will look back at 20+ years hence publishing today? I doubt it. I think the publishing conditions and conventions were much different in the late 50s and early 60s. Today's writer has to be much better with that first novel, and each subsequent one.	2002-09-12
1412281:US	53084041	R3SVCGNHIXW4F	0312890125	266297556	Remaking History and Other Stories	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Some real gems here	I like Stan's writing, even when I'm totally unsure of what it is I'm reading. He's one of the few writers I don't mind re-reading; if anything, I get more of what I like in his writing during a re-reading, since I then tend to forget about trying to follow the &quot;plot&quot; or &quot;meaning&quot; of the story, and instead just watch the way the words flow. However, even given the above, I tend to like Stan best when I can enjoy the prose and the story.<br />In this collection, the stories I thought fulfilled both promises were:<br />  * &quot;The Translator&quot;--A perfect bit about being caught in the middle of a culture clash, with only your wits to fall onto. Reminiscent of Stanley Weinbaum (in a good way).<br />  * &quot;Before I Wake&quot;--A truly Dickian story about consciousness and unconsciousness, in that classic &quot;am I or am I not,&quot; except to show that it's both.<br />  * &quot;Remaking History&quot;--Actually metafiction, as it is a story about alternate histories, while being an alternate history itself. Simplistic, yet clever.<br />* &quot;A Sensitive Dependence on Initial Conditions&quot;--Not really a story, but a philosophical essay about choices as view through scientific ideas. Stan is reviewing the theme of his earlier story &quot;Lucky Strike,&quot; with a more mature outlook on the problem. The last line, repeated through the story like a chorus, sends a chill down your spine (in a good way).<br />The following I enjoyed to a lesser extent:<br />  * &quot;The Part of Us That Loves&quot;--Liked the modernization of the Bible, but didn't follow the overall story (or, on the other hand, didn't see that it came to a conclusion).<br />  * &quot;A History of the Twentieth Century, with Illustrations&quot;--Liked the condensation of the history, but wasn't affected personally by the character change.<br />  * &quot;Vinland the Dream&quot;--Loved the construction of the story (as if it were a scientific journal article), but the story itself didn't move me.<br />  * &quot;Rainbow Bridge&quot;--Or &quot;Stan Robinson Tries His Hand at Native American Magical Realism.&quot; Some wonderful bits, but the overall story failed to reach me.<br />  * &quot;Muir on Shasta&quot;--Nice description, but too short (length and plot) for a complete story.<br />  * &quot;Glacier&quot;--A textbook example of Kessel's Humanist theory of SF. The character reacts to the SF concept, and &quot;changes,&quot; yet affects the concept in no way. The old school hates this sort of stuff. I don't mind it, but here the change didn't &quot;touch&quot; me, so I wasn't affected by it intellectually or emotionally, and was thus disappointed.<br />  * &quot;Down and Out in the Year 2000&quot;--I missed the point of this story when I originally read it in Asimov's, because at the time I was (and still am, to some extent) enamoured of cyberpunk. This story is Stan's rebuttal to Neuromancer (and its high-tech/low-life ilk), in which he says low-life can't afford high-tech, not only to be able to own it, but to have the education necessary to be able to use it, or the mind-set. Entirely valid point and interestingly accomplished in the story; however, I'm not sure that the story holds up by itself, instead requiring a knowledge of the background of its criticism for its true punch.<br />  * &quot;Our Town&quot;--Too short, and felt very similar to other stories of elites (like Silverberg's &quot;Sailing to Byzantium&quot;). Given a longer story, with more plot/description/substance, I might have been more impressed.<br />  * &quot;A Transect&quot;--Reminded me of Bishop's &quot;Apartheid, Superstrings, and Mordecai Thubana,&quot; which I feel conveys the same point, but done better.<br />  * &quot;The Lunatics&quot;--Another story that I didn't quite get on the first reading. Followed it better this time, but still had a sense of uncomprehension at the ending.<br />* &quot;Zurich&quot;--Heavily autobiographical; once the story moves from the obsessive cleaning to the metaphysical &quot;you won't be here again,&quot; it lost its appeal for me.m the obsessive cleaning to the metaphysical &quot;you won't be here again,&quot; it lost its appeal for me.	2002-09-11
1412628:US	53084041	R1MY7JHRY422TA	0061204552	150826460	Fast company	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Traveling through U.S. gambling subcultures	Not really a travel book, like the rest of the Vintage Departures line, but an examination of another culture just the same. Bradshaw profiles six men with something in common--they are all hustlers, that is, gamblers who make a living by their wits. The range here is great, including the tennis player Bobby Riggs and backgammon great Tim Holland, as well as more &quot;traditional&quot; gamblers Minnesota Fats (pool), Pug Pearson and Johnny Moss (poker), and Titantic Thompson (proposition). But these were just what these men were best at--they all exceeded at almost every game they undertook, golf being an extremely common one for each. Bradshaw was a gifted writer. His style makes this book difficult to place down; the subject makes it nigh impossible.	2002-09-11
1412699:US	53084041	R2E2TTAIF71QGQ	1580800688	262942882	Eastward Ha!	Books	3	5	17	N	N	Laughing as you go	There's only one thing worse than a new convert to science fiction--you know the type, 30 years old and just now reading Dune and Stranger in a Strange Land and Foundation for the first time and blathering on about it like they had just discovered God. No, there's only one thing worse than such a person, and that's a new convert to anything else. So let me confess this now and get it off my chest before I quit breathing--I'm in love with travel books. Oh, it may be an infatuation. I think of those radio dedications like &quot;To John, we've only been together for a week, but I know that it's love, and that we'll be together for the rest of our lives.&quot; Right now, however, it feels, smells, and tastes like love, so who am I to try and avoid the conclusion? Travel books, you say, you mean like Let's Go: Europe 1990. By your very words you commit the unpardonable sin of not understanding just who my elusive new mistress is, a problem which I must remedy at once.<br />But I have to admit, like the new convert, that I don't know much. What may seem wonderful and new to me, you may have had read to you on your mother's lap. So be it. There are so many more of you out there that this can't help but be. Instead, I'll write this like I wish someone would have written to me about a year ago (or even earlier), and if it suffers for a lack of knowledge, well, then, I will cringe along with you when I reread it a few years hence. S.J. Perelman writes about travelling like the above was written about reading: a lot of style which attempts humor (some working, some not), telling you more about the writer and very little about the subject. I found it interesting, but you may not.	2002-09-11
1412801:US	53084041	R289HU2E1ASDXO	0742632474	931112142	The Prince and Betty (Collected Works of P.G. Wodehouse)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Wodehouse writing like Damon Runyon	Wodehouse is finely honing the comical style that characterizes the later novels. This novel, however, is very dissimilar to Bertie/Jeeves. Instead, it's more like Damon Runyon, if Runyon had written a novel. The characteristic near-misses and misunderstandings of Wodehouse are present, as is the jocular young man in spats (here called Smith, supposedly American, but reading like the Psmith of the Wodehouse books of that name), but the two main characters are college-educated Americans. It is the subplot in the last half of the story involving gangs and their \\"canisters\\" (guns) that makes it almost unbelievable that this is Wodehouse. Although comedic, the real level of danger presented to the characters is great, especially compared with later novels in which danger is usually in the form of an avenging aunt who threatens to cut off the money supply. Imagine what Wodehouse would have been like if he had chosen to follow the path of this novel rather than the Psmith novels or the Bertie/Jeeves stories!<br />Wodehouse does a wonderful bit of satire here on the \\"wholesome\\" newspapers of the day, probably little knowing that his fare would be held up as wholesome in later years.	2002-09-11
1412858:US	53084041	RI93HVEIHT8JK	0679770798	51425776	Jaguars Ripped My Flesh	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not just chills and thrills, but something to say as well	This is a well-written collection of essays by Cahill, subtitled \\"Adventure is a Risky Business,\\" that succeeds best when Cahill is trying to make due with human nature rather than mother nature. Or, possibly, that's just where my interests lie. Even arm-chair tourists whose idea of \\"getting back to nature\\" is a stroll down the block can't help but envy Cahill as he is pushed in assignment after assignment in which he looks danger in the face and blows it a raspberry, and then falling on his face. Woah, that extended one metaphor to the breaking point, which Cahill tends to do at times as well. But don't think all is just chills and thrills here. There's some social commentary (some biting, some toothless), vivid description, outlandish occurrences, and breathtaking wonder. It may seem at times that you're reading a transcript for \\"NOVA,\\" but is that so bad? Cahill's written two other volumes like this--A Wolverine is Eating My Leg and Pecked to Death by Ducks--which I plan to find and read, and that's probably recommendation enough for this volume.	2002-09-11
1417253:US	53084041	R1MO4KUAELAU17	0449224740	612324617	The Long Lavender Look (Travis McGee Mysteries)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	incredibly re-readable	I'm constantly amazed at the hold that MacDonald asserts over me as a reader, certainly with this character. The beginnings always seem to jump right off, even when they also seem to ramble, like in this one (McGee talking of late night rides, fishing, his old Rolls Royce truck) or the McGee novel that starts with McGee and Meyer fishing by the bridge. There's hook there, yes--a bit of action occurs within the first three pages that sits the novel rolling--but it isn't the immediate hook of the short story or the long rambling set ups of most novels (I'm thinking of the info dumps that start most SF/F/H novels).<br />The hook isn't the only thing going for MacDonald, though. The sentences and chapters seem to flow, to beg to be read. Since I was reading this novel on breaks, at lunch, and other different odd times, I tended to read only a chapter or two at a time. Rarely did I end a chapter when I didn't find myself unconsciously moving on the beginning of the next. Part of this is due to the standard technique of cliff-hanging chapters, which MacDonald has down well. But MacDonald's cliff-hangers aren't just situations, it seems to me, but the words themselves. I need to examine the chapter endings to see if I can identify what he is doing. Since I'm reading the McGee novels in chronological order, I'll try to do it with the next.	2002-09-06
1417803:US	53084041	R2NVF94CM6Z7GC	0553241915	652949468	Trio for Blunt Instruments (Nero Wolfe)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Good as always	Three novellas featuring Nero Wolfe, Archie Goodwin and the rest of the gang. What's new here is that Stout is beginning to speak forthrightly about sex. In earlier books, he'd been cunningly vague about sexual motivation or Archie's contact with women. Here, in stories written in the early 1960s, Stout first mentions pregnancy outside of marriage.	2002-09-06
1417938:US	53084041	R3JL1TL7W2ECTA	0738207411	262813521	We've Got Blog: How Weblogs Are Changing Our Culture	Books	2	18	18	N	N	Just read some blogs instead	I like blogs. I think they are a nice example of technology coming around to meet the way people interact. For years we've said that the secret to a web site was to keep refreshing the content, so people would want to return. The difficulty in keeping content fresh was as much a technological problem (the annoyances of editing, publishing, etc. both at home and on the road) as well as psychological (what needs to be updated, what do people want to read). The blog is to the 2000s what desktop publishing was to the 1980s: expanding publishing tools out to more people. Will everyone write a blog? No. In the 1980s, not everyone wrote a 'zine (although it started to feel like it at times). The comparison continues, as early 'zines suffered from overuse of fonts and design elements that blogs now mirror in incompatible HTML coding and stylesheets. None of this takes away from the very real power of allowing people to publish their writing faster, quicker, and better.<br />I feel I must say this so that you understand that my negative reaction to this book is to the book itself, and not the book's subject. We've Got Blog is a mishmash of articles, mostly (if not entirely--I couldn't tell) reprinted from blogs themselves, that tries to define blogs, why they are important, and how they may affect the future of journalism and the Internet. A few of the articles are well-written and interesting; most, however, suffer from their origins in that they seem quite ephemeral and off-the-cuff. Despite the &quot;solution&quot; to do links in the originals as endnotes, when you read text in a book that lacks the immediacy to check out the links, something is lost. If anything, the book truly makes it clear the difference between print and screen. Most of the articles seem strange because of the very ephemeral nature of how they were originally published, how putting them in a compiliation removed them from the very time and place that they were meant to be. This is especially true of the extended conversation about MetaFilter from MetaFilter that ends the book, where the banality of the conversation overwhelms the permancy of acid-free paper.<br />I'm 0 for 2 in reading books about blogs (I wasn't much impressed by Rebecca Blood's handbook, either), but I remain committed to the medium in spite of this. We've Got Blog is useful for the historical record (although the Internet Archive probably could have provided this as well), but we're still waiting for the book that will truly help codify what the fuss is all about.the extended conversation about MetaFilter from MetaFilter that ends the book, where the banality of the conversation overwhelms the permancy of acid-free paper.<br />I'm 0 for 2 in reading books about blogs (I wasn't much impressed by Rebecca Blood's handbook, either), but I remain committed to the medium in spite of this. We've Got Blog is useful for the historical record (although the Internet Archive probably could have provided this as well), but we're still waiting for the book that will truly help codify what the fuss is all about.	2002-09-06
1418016:US	53084041	R3D7BSD15DIWES	0394544811	880891233	Into the Heart of Borneo	Books	4	1	6	N	N	I wouldn't want to travel with him	This was sent me by David Baboulene, who also sent me Mayle's A Year in Provence. Both of these books are considered humorous books on travel, but they couldn't be more different. Mayle's book is like a TV sitcom in some ways--that is, everything is familiar enough to us at sight, but it is the occurrences that seem to work at odds. In O'Hanlon, we are lifted bodily out of the world we know and placed in a situation where it is truly difficult for the modern person to cope. O'Hanlon understands the modern fears--of insects, leeches, snakes, aboriginals--but instead of horror, he plays them as mock horrific. Repetition breeds humor (as fans of Saturday Night Life know well). Still, this book is also full of information. Things like:... b) the longevity of memory in a place fairly devoid of writing, seen through the relations between the Ukit and Iban tribes; and c) the descriptions of the leeches, including the thin, threadlike one which hides in the water, attached to a rock, waiting to be drunk by some animal, and then attaches itself to the inner walls of the throat. Overall, an excellent book; however, I was more amused by the Mayle.	2002-09-06
1418202:US	53084041	R3IO19R3HUPI02	0156010879	305152292	Words Fail  Me: What Everyone Who Writes     Should Know about Writing	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Great explanations of writing's little mysteries	It's one of life's little ironies that you find yourself engaging in things as you grow older that you hated when you were younger. Maybe hate is too strong a word. It wasn't that I hated grammar, but that I really didn't give it much thought, and felt that time spent in English class doing so was wasted. Since then, I've become not just a writer who wants to be read, but also a teacher of writing, who has to convince his students that grammar is important.<br />Having resources like this book by O'Conner certainly helps. Rather than the dry stuff foisted off on middle- and high-school students, O'Conner leads through examples. This is a nice companion to her earlier book, Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English, which covers some of the wrong-headed beliefs that most students emerge from secondary school with (such as the incorrect idea that it is wrong to end a sentence with a preposition, which I just did). It's a good writing book that gets you to thinking it's time to pick up the pen and write something, and that's how I felt several times while reading through this one. In fact, her section on point of view &quot;cured&quot; a bit of writer's block I was having with regard to one story that had been lingering about in my mind for the last four years and which I had been unable to start.<br />I'd be tempted to do away with the writer's handbook for these two books of O'Conner's, but that wouldn't be smart. These are good, but they aren't a reference so much as they are an explanation for why grammar needs to be observed.	2002-09-05
1418400:US	53084041	R2MN6BBMR4ELTJ	0471287016	850403298	Doing More Business on the Internet: How the Electronic Highway Is Transforming American Companies	Books	2	2	2	N	N	What I thought of this in 1996	The rapid sublimation of the Internet into the commercial world has been nothing short of amazing, although in retrospect it seems like it was heading towards it all along. Early commercial networks like The Source and CompuServe had the right idea of providing information on the desktop on demand, but they were limited in both what they could offer and who they could offer these services to by both logistics and economics (namely establishing modem lines in every community, the need for the consumer to own a modem, etc.). The Internet, evolving at the same time, had the resources and the connections, but unless you were a government researcher or an academic, you weren't allowed access. The creation of the commercial backbone by CIX bridged the gap between these two worlds, and the advent of the World Wide Web has provided the needed graphical user interface necessary for almost anyone to utilize the connectivity. Businesses are no longer wondering if they should become part of the online world, but how to do so and in what form.<br />Mary Cronin does a good job in Doing Business on the Internet and More Doing Business in the Internet [1] of explaining what the &quot;network of networks&quot; offers businesses, mainly through the use of case studies of businesses who have already opened up an electronic storefront. Although this book is written and meant for managers and executives with little net experience, the case studies provide some insights even for long-time users. The methods of doing business on the Internet are fairly obvious--from moving customer service from one-to-one phone exchanges to the one-to-many exchange offered by newsgroups and updated online catalogs by FTP--but the case studies illustrate how these methods achieve results. This focus on the cost-benefit to the bottom line is what conservative managers are looking for before they dedicate resources to achieving an Internet presence.<br />The speed at which this part of industry is growing and changing is not lost, and can be best illustrated by the book itself. Published only last year, it has already been outdated in many areas. Mary Cronin spends a lot of time reassuring businesses that the &quot;Acceptable Use Policy&quot; of the National Science Foundation is no longer a hindrance to commerce on the Internet; this policy is hardly ever mentioned today, now that the commercial side is fully two-thirds of the Internet and growing daily. Cronin mentions the World Wide Web only in passing, while in the past year it has been the Web that has brought the Internet into the mainstream and will likely be the vehicle that the majority of Americans and the world will use to connect to businesses.<br />Change is hard to deal with, and grizzled net veterans are prone to reminisce about the &quot;good ol' days&quot; when business was not a part of the Internet. It is likely that older business managers have fond memories of their own of days when acronyms like HTML and FTP were not part of their marketing plans. But, as Cronin correctly observes, the future is in increased connection and communication in all aspects of our lives, and someone is likely to use it to make money. This book shows that some people already have and provides some excellent tips on how to follow their example.d changing is not lost, and can be best illustrated by the book itself. Published only last year, it has already been outdated in many areas. Mary Cronin spends a lot of time reassuring businesses that the &quot;Acceptable Use Policy&quot; of the National Science Foundation is no longer a hindrance to commerce on the Internet; this policy is hardly ever mentioned today, now that the commercial side is fully two-thirds of the Internet and growing daily. Cronin mentions the World Wide Web only in passing, while in the past year it has been the Web that has brought the Internet into the mainstream and will likely be the vehicle that the majority of Americans and the world will use to connect to businesses.<br />Change is hard to deal with, and grizzled net veterans are prone to reminisce about the &quot;good ol' days&quot; when business was not a part of the Internet. It is likely that older business managers have fond memories of their own of days when acronyms like HTML and FTP were not part of their marketing plans. But, as Cronin correctly observes, the future is in increased connection and communication in all aspects of our lives, and someone is likely to use it to make money. This book shows that some people already have and provides some excellent tips on how to follow their example.	2002-09-05
1418413:US	53084041	R3GD1FCLPNNTKE	0553295128	661242019	Fools	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The cyberpunk equivalent of Sybil	The ending is what makes this book so satisfying. Fools is a novel about personality, how much is your own and how much is grafted on to you without your knowledge. Like Pat's other work, Fools is gritty and witty, pumped up on technology (high) and grifters (low). What she doesn't explore here--things like the actual workings of a mindplaying theatre group or the morality of being a Brain Police (shades of Philip K. Dick's A Scanner Darkly?)--just goes to show how much work and thought went into this book. It's a confusing book, kind of like reading Sybil except all the characters are multiple personalities. And it's the ending--the tying up of what (might have) went before into a coherent statement--that pushes this puppy to the top.	2002-09-05
1418440:US	53084041	R1CMP2CKS2DUC1	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	55	60	N	N	Best retrospective collection	The announcement last November that Bill Watterson would be retiring his comic strip Calvin and Hobbes at the end of the year should not have surprised anyone--at least, anyone who has read the recently released The Calvin and Hobbes Tenth Anniversary Book. Like Gary Larsen's Pre-History of The Far Side, this volume provides a retrospective collection selected by the author, with notes on the origin and evolution of his creation. Both cartoonists annotated the books themselves, explaining the writing process and the business of cartooning. Larsen, though, as happy with his medium--his retirement was a factor of creative burnout rather than frustration with the limitations of the comics page of today's newspaper. That frustration with the four panel strip was the reason for Berke Breathed's early retirement, and is quite likely the reason for Watterson's as well. Watterson believes in the comic as a real art form--and in his hands it often was--but the dynamics of the business, both the physical limitations on the drawing and the way the economics is split between artist and newspaper with a syndicate go-between, restricted the full expression of his art.<br />The Tenth Anniversary Book is not a depressing collection, although it is quite serious in its examination of the ten years of the strip. Watterson reveled in his creation, and the work that he produced was always of the utmost quality. This collection has some of the most joyful moments of the past--Spaceman Spiff is there, as well as Stupendous Man, the Replicator, and the dreaded Babysitter. The amazing thing isn't that Watterson is retiring, but that he could spend ten years producing such work as fresh and imaginative as his debut.<br />While I am sad to see Waterson and Calvin and Hobbes retire, I have hope that we have not seen the last of either. The rise of the \\"graphic novel\\" and its acceptance in the United States (the form has always been popular in Europe [Tintin, Asterix] and Japan [magna too numerous to list]) offers Watterson the format that he deserves, where he can be enjoyed and appreciated as one of the most innovative sequential artists of the later 20th century.rous to list]) offers Watterson the format that he deserves, where he can be enjoyed and appreciated as one of the most innovative sequential artists of the later 20th century.	2002-09-05
1418471:US	53084041	RUSL59G8GWXR7	0964447207	767315930	To Touch the World: The Peace Corps Experience	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sample the Peace Corps experience	Although the Peace Corps has only been in existence for 35 years, it has fielded over 140,000 volunteers. So it is not surprising that some of these Returned Peace Corps Volunteers (RPCVs) have taken a moment to write about their experience--not only what it meant to them personally, but the effects that they have been able to see of their efforts on the world. In this volume, published and available free with the application form from the Peace Corps recruitment center near you, 32 RPCVs and former Peace Corps staff members share the vision and the experience of the Peace Corps.<br />For what is ostensibly a recruiting document, To Touch the World is not filled with unrestrained tales of wonder. The Peace Corps does not attempt to hide the fact that service is not necessarily glamorous or fun. It is, after all, a job. What the authors do show is that the hard work has purpose, that the exchange of culture is rewarding for both volunteer and host country. The writing ranges from reflections on the history of the Peace Corps by its original director and journalist Bill Moyers and to reflections on teaching English in Poland and accounts of building fish ponds in Africa. Not all of the essays are the polished writing of professionals, but nothing is ill-wrought or misshapen. The intended audience is obviously people who are contemplating joining the Peace Corps, but almost any virtual traveler can come away from this volume with something, including a better picture of the Peace Corps itself.	2002-09-05
1418665:US	53084041	RLFPF2UGB2B2F	067166641X	593112057	Surrender the Pink	Books	3	14	18	N	N	More thinly veiled autobiography	In Postcards from the Edge you could easily see that there was only a fine line dividing Fisher from the exploits of her main character, Suzanne Vail. After all, Fisher had been in drug therapy; so was Vail. Fisher was a movie star, daughter of movie stars; so was Vail. The success of Postcards from the Edge, however, wasn't in the voyeuristic opportunities of seeing how Fisher's life was like from her point-of-view, but the point-of-view itself: sarcastically caustic and witty. Well, it's all back in Surrender the Pink. And I mean all back. Once again, you wonder just how much of Dinah Kaufman is fictional and how much Fisher. How much of this failed relationship between Dinah and her famous playwright ex-husband Rudy Gendler is taken from the break-up of Fisher and famous songwriter ex-husband Paul Simon. The wit and sarcasm are there as well, this time informed with brief quotes on the nature of sex in the animal kingdom. However, Surrender the Pink isn't quite as satisfying as Postcards from the Edge. For all the action that takes place here, what one remembers are the interminable \\"talking heads\\" on the cliched differences between men and women. Even though the characters (and Fisher) realize that they are repeating cliches, it makes it no easier for the reader to swallow. The only thing that kept me reading at times were the occasional glimpses of true lunacy that was the focus of Postcards from the Edge. Surrender the Pink is also a more traditional narrative, with chapters and backflashes that flow evenhandedly, rather than the herky-jerky, episodic nature of Postcards from the Edge. Unfortunately, the bridges in Surrender the Pink probably would have been better exorcised rather than be allowed to bog the narrative as they do. For all its jerks, Postcards from the Edge was the better book.	2002-09-05
1418697:US	53084041	R1MAP4KRL6ZEMA	0553292390	373239873	SPEAKING IN TONGUES (Spectra Special Editions)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Someone to watch	This is a collection of short stories from one of SFs brightest new hopes. I made notes after each individual story as I read it:<br />  * \\"Gardenias\\" -- Fancifully written, but ultimately plotless. Interesting for the mix of poetry and prose, and the way the narrator speaks to the reader and character. Ultimately not my cup of tea, though.<br />  * \\"Rainmaker Cometh\\" -- I believe I read this before somewhere (in The Year's Best Fantasy?). Nicely oblique tale of small-town desperation and the mysterious stranger. Well done, but we've seen it all before.<br />  * \\"Listen\\" -- Okay, it's obvious that McDonald can write, and can write well and stylishly. But what about plot? What about a little less deus ex machina? What about a little more substance? This story is clearly indicative of my problems so far with McDonald: a lot of style, a lot of imagination, but nothing more on the ball.<br />  * \\"Speaking in Tongues\\" -- I didn't follow this story at all. I suspect there was something that tied the parts together, but McDonald gave me no clear clues to find that something. Bleah.<br />  * \\"Fragments on an Analysis of a Case of Hysteria\\" -- Now this is a story worthy of recommendation. Excellent use of historical and fictional, the hysteria originally unfounded except when the story rolls around and we find out, no, it is merely foreboding. The grafted-on bit with the Wandering Jew could just as well been excised for all that it does (and only served to sell the story originally, to Brian Stableford's theme anthology Tales of the Wandering Jew). It is the rest that makes this story satisfying.<br />  * \\"Approaching Perpendicular\\" -- Poetical story about the dreams and agonies of a poet, analogous to the struggles of any artist who braves the fears and sometimes oversteps the bounds in trying to be art. Or perhaps I'm reading too much into it. Perfect prose-poetry, to be so ambiguous, yet allow interpretation.<br />  * \\"Floating Dogs\\" -- Post holocaust story updated to today's foreseen technology, nanotech. As such, really nothing new said here.<br />  * \\"Atomic Avenue\\" -- Nice idea, but seems overlong. Once again, the fine line between mood (poetry) versus information (prose) seems stretched too tightly to the mood side for a story.<br />  * \\"Fronds\\" -- Well realized alien/human contact, with added development of Chinese/Japanese company rule mirrored in a Dr. Moreau-like Delphic (for dolphins) law. This kind of story has been done better, but not by many, and I found myself thoroughly enthralled by the world-building.<br />  * \\"Winning\\" -- Well done tale of translating modern culture and mores and positing a prospective future. That is, science fiction. Not as clever as \\"Fragments,\\" but very worthy.<br />* \\"Toward Kilimanjaro\\" -- Reminiscent of Shepard & Frazier's \\"mutant rainforest\\" stories, which are probably recalls of Brian Aldiss' Hothouse. There is a lot of Conrad symbolism here (which I can recognize, even though I've never read Conrad). What is it about Heart of Darkness that appeals so to the SF spirit? Interesting, but overlong to be so unoriginal in plot.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the McDonald collection, even though when I look back over my notes, I would only recommend half of the stories (and that to a dedicated reader of SF). He's got real style, though--a talent with words--that will prove to be useful in the future when his plots and ideas become more original than the recycled ones in these stories.oday's foreseen technology, nanotech. As such, really nothing new said here.<BR>    * \\"Atomic Avenue\\" -- Nice idea, but seems overlong. Once again, the fine line between mood (poetry) versus information (prose) seems stretched too tightly to the mood side for a story.<BR>    * \\"Fronds\\" -- Well realized alien/human contact, with added development of Chinese/Japanese company rule mirrored in a Dr. Moreau-like Delphic (for dolphins) law. This kind of story has been done better, but not by many, and I found myself thoroughly enthralled by the world-building.<BR>    * \\"Winning\\" -- Well done tale of translating modern culture and mores and positing a prospective future. That is, science fiction. Not as clever as \\"Fragments,\\" but very worthy.<BR>* \\"Toward Kilimanjaro\\" -- Reminiscent of Shepard & Frazier's \\"mutant rainforest\\" stories, which are probably recalls of Brian Aldiss' Hothouse. There is a lot of Conrad symbolism here (which I can recognize, even though I've never read Conrad). What is it about Heart of Darkness that appeals so to the SF spirit? Interesting, but overlong to be so unoriginal in plot.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the McDonald collection, even though when I look back over my notes, I would only recommend half of the stories (and that to a dedicated reader of SF). He's got real style, though--a talent with words--that will prove to be useful in the future when his plots and ideas become more original than the recycled ones in these stories.	2002-09-05
1418708:US	53084041	R1CTCR959ZBVCY	0451159217	638480673	Give the Boys a Great Big Hand (87th Precinct Mystery)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	For the fan	Typical early 87th Precinct mystery with a horrendous pun for the title (the \\"Boys\\" of the 87th find a large cut-off hand in the first chapter). McBain in this period has a horrible tendancy to overwrite (the three page description of the \\"City\\" as a woman was excruciatingly purple) and play cute (several times the characters make references to either entertainment or novels, in an early and poor attempt at post-modernism). Introduced in this book is Juan, the Puerto Rican addition to the 87th, as McBain slowly trudges towards diversity, thirty years earlier than Bill Clinton.<br />(Sorry about this review being on here twice--I originally posted it years ago before Amazon kept track of reviewers.)	2002-09-05
1418879:US	53084041	R2FZ7TKDFUW4AX	0252061403	594506939	Across the Wounded Galaxies: Interviews with Contemporary American Science Fiction Writers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A little dull for the subject matter	Most of these interviews are dryly academic, as McCaffrey tries to relate this diverse group of SF authors into (or out of) the recently acceptable literary schools (mainly post modernism). There is some action--Sterling for most of his interview, Disch on certain other authors--and McCaffrey doesn't always stay with the academic format, but most of the pages are such snoozers. In every interview there is the inevitable &quot;who are you reading&quot; and &quot;who are your influences&quot; questions, which are interview cliches, but still prove to illuminate something about each author, if only &quot;how&quot; they answer these interminable questions. I enjoyed the Sterling, Wolfe, Delany, and Butler interviews the most. Benford was an incredible bore, and Burroughs walks all over the feigning McCaffrey.	2002-09-05
1418980:US	53084041	R3R7YVPX6PR44S	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Humans are the strangest aliens	Mayle and his wife retire to a small house in Provence, and the ensuing book relates his trials and tribulations as an Englishman in a rural French setting. This is a wonderful book, full of pleasure and amusement. I kept getting ideas for science fiction from this, mainly because Mayle's descriptions of rural French life showed that humans can be as alien as any extraterrestrials. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this book to anyone....	2002-09-05
1419336:US	53084041	R5NDH7BVKVXG6	080213520X	170459051	Escape Velocity: Cyberculture at the End of the Century	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Cybersourcebook	\\"Escape velocity is the speed at which a body...overcomes the gravitational pull of another body,\\" begins Mark Dery in his non-fictional amalgamation of the current state of computer culture, Escape Velocity. Dery uses the concept as a metaphor for what is happening to the many memes--concept viruses--of the on-line and turned-on and their relation to the greater society (mainly American, although some service is given to Japan and Europe). Like the emergence of the Internet (and the 'net concept of on-line connectivity) into the mainstream, the ideas of body sculpting, merging with machines (either virtually or prosthetically), and transhuman growth, among others, are just below the cultural surface, according to Dery.<br />To be a cultural historian to the fast-paced world of computers is a difficult one, because the cyberculture, far more so than any subculture before it, is as varied in its parts as it is separated geographically. It exists on change. In ways, the myriad differences in the cybercrowd is what makes it a culture rather than a cult--it encourages the free range of expression from left to right, and all the fringes top and bottom, and there is no single authority to consult. Mark Dery's job, therefore, was to piece together a picture of a living community that is less than 30 years old and is more malleable than one of his favorite images, that of the T-2000 liquid-metal android from the movie Terminator 2. He assembled this jigsaw by grabbing at the outward manifestations of the culture--its art--rather than focusing on the nuts and bolts of how it came and stays together. Dery's goal was to achieve a focus on where cybernauts and cyberpunks are headed, rather than where they have been. Within the cybernetic expressions in print, screen, music, body art, performance, and philosophy lie the seeds of a cultural revolution that began with the home computer, according to Dery.<br />Any cultural representation requires a polymath to untangle the multitude of threads that bind it together. When that culture is the front end of the runaway train of technology, the examiner must also be moving at the speed of information. Dery, for the most part, rises to the challenge, able to quote both fiction writers and art critics, social commentators and \\"hackers\\" within the same page. His profiles of those on the fringe and those with the mainstream are balanced, except when he pauses to regroup his thinking at the end of each chapter and his own impressions slip in. One of the most rewarding aspects of Dery's compilation is that he went beyond the most visible proponents of cyberculture (William Gibson, Mark Pauline of the Survival Research Laboratories, Hans Moravec) to also get the equally important contributions that have not engendered cultish followings (in fiction, for example, Dery quotes the work of Pat Cadigan and John Shirley as well as that of Gibson and Bruce Sterling), as well as progenitors to the culture (again in fiction, the work of Philip K. Dick and J.G. Ballard).<br />As a document of fact about what happened and is happening in the computer subculture, Escape Velocity is hard to fault. But Dery's goal was to portray where the culture is headed (in his eyes into the larger mainstream), and it is herein that trouble lies. To extract the future of society from this mismatch of ideas would be like portraying the future of cinema in the 1960s by examining both Easy Rider and La Dolce Vita. Yes, these movies had a profound effect on the cinematic culture at large, but it was subsumed into the larger whole. Dery quotes Gibson's oft-touted refrain, \\"The street finds its own uses for things.\\" Just so, the mainstream often finds its own uses for the street, as evidenced in the music business by the commercialization and marketing of punk, rap, and grunge, each a thriving subculture at one time.<br />Escape Velocity is an intriguing volume, and Mark Dery is to be commended for attempting to achieve a cyberculture gestalt. For those interested in what is happening \\"in there,\\" Escape Velocity is a one-stop shop, a veritable sourcebook of cyberdom.estalt. For those interested in what is happening \\"in there,\\" Escape Velocity is a one-stop shop, a veritable sourcebook of cyberdom.	2002-09-04
1419370:US	53084041	R3QX81ZT2K7ALZ	0679767789	556287238	Lost In Place: Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Learning to be human	Biographies in our society are usually reserved for the famous, the infamous, and the dead associated with the famous or infamous. To get to the real meat of what a biography should be, one must turn to the autobiography shelf. Although this area is also filled with the lives of the well-known, there also reside some gems that sparkle with an inner-fire of their own. These are the stories of lives which are unique in themselves, not for what they did on the sports court or the silver screen.<br />Although Mark Salzman has starred in a movie, I somehow doubt that his is a household name. The movie was Iron & Silk, based on his book of the same title. Both book and movie are wonderfully simple yet with deep meaning, telling the story of Salzman's life spent teaching English in China. Salzman has a real gift for taking himself out of the picture, so it seems that you are the subject of the autobiography. At the same time, he remains interesting as a subject. It was this strange mixture of self-depreciation and self-congratulation that endeared Salzman's story to many readers, including myself.<br />The two books that Salzman followed his debut with were both novels, one a fantasy about how the Chinese would and do see America (The Laughing Sutra), the other a novel about playing the cello (The Soloist). Both were good, but neither had the same strange dichotomy of his first. Mark Salzman's latest book, Lost in Place, returns to the autobiographical, and also returns to the strange brew that made Iron & Silk so appealing.<br />Subtitled Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia, Lost in Place chronicles Salzman's life before he went to teach in China. In some ways it is a fairly mundane tale of coming of age in the 1960s. Yet Salzman as a subject is never mundane; from attempting to become a Zen monk at age 12, through the wonder and terror of high school and sadistic karate instruction, Salzman reveals that what might seem mundane on the surface actually teems with absurdity, wit, and...well, life. Instead of a simple listing of happenings which served him well in Iron & Silk, Salzman has added the strength of the novel to his autobiography. Everything that made his writing style so interesting remains--now, though, it has a structure, including a world-shattering climax. (Well, world-shattering for the protagonist--with meaning for the reader.)<br />The book is fascinating, especially for readers of Salzman's previous books. We discover where his love of Chinese culture came from, and how he ended up studying classical Mandarin. We see the study of the cello in his own life, including has brief attempt at jazz cello and the interpretation of classical Indian music. But most of all, we see ourselves in Mark Salzman. We see the insecurities of a teenager in love and sex, ambition and depression, hedonism and the straight-and-narrow. While the specifics may not match our own lives, we can recall the same feelings of wanting so much, when life seemed like it was an endless chore, and also those epiphanies when we realize how much we resemble our parents, how much our parents resemble us, and how much we resemble each other.<br />In Iron & Silk, Mark Salzman used his time in China to reflect on what it meant to be an American. In Lost in Place, he goes one better--here he shows us what it means to be human. That is what true autobiography is about.and...well, life. Instead of a simple listing of happenings which served him well in Iron & Silk, Salzman has added the strength of the novel to his autobiography. Everything that made his writing style so interesting remains--now, though, it has a structure, including a world-shattering climax. (Well, world-shattering for the protagonist--with meaning for the reader.)<br />The book is fascinating, especially for readers of Salzman's previous books. We discover where his love of Chinese culture came from, and how he ended up studying classical Mandarin. We see the study of the cello in his own life, including has brief attempt at jazz cello and the interpretation of classical Indian music. But most of all, we see ourselves in Mark Salzman. We see the insecurities of a teenager in love and sex, ambition and depression, hedonism and the straight-and-narrow. While the specifics may not match our own lives, we can recall the same feelings of wanting so much, when life seemed like it was an endless chore, and also those epiphanies when we realize how much we resemble our parents, how much our parents resemble us, and how much we resemble each other.<br />In Iron & Silk, Mark Salzman used his time in China to reflect on what it meant to be an American. In Lost in Place, he goes one better--here he shows us what it means to be human. That is what true autobiography is about.	2002-09-04
1419387:US	53084041	RXQIEDMD79GXX	0803212216	202738276	Our Landlady	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Historically fascinating	L. Frank Baum is known best for The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, a children's fantasy that has achieved classic status through its multiple reprintings and because of the movies based on it, including the MGM classic The Wizard of Oz starring Judy Garland and the 70s musical The Wiz. Part of the appeal of Baum's fantasy is that it is quintessentially American, set in the heart of the midwest, and in some ways deals with the American spirit. Academic commentators have gone further in their study of Baum's work, saying that it can be read as a treatise on the America of the late 1800s, citing various political undercurrents in the novel. These arguments are based on Baum's work as a newspaper publisher, editor and columnist in South Dakota. Now the University of Nebraska press has made available a collection of the &quot;Our Landlady&quot; columns[1] written by Baum from January 1890 to February 1891--forty-eight installments about a fictitious boarding house in the town of Aberdeen where Baum's newspaper was published.<br />The columns are edited and annotated by Nancy Tystad Koupal, who does an outstanding job of placing the column in the appropriate time setting, explaining to the modern reader the differences that one hundred years have made on newspapers, political parties, mercantile exchange, and other aspects of frontier life. This is especially important in the context of the &quot;Our Landlady&quot; columns which were intended as editorials on the doings of city hall and the state legislature. The column also mentions, by name, actual townspeople in Aberdeen, and these people are described by both Koupal's annotations and in a separate index of important people and places of South Dakota in 1890.<br />For adult readers of Baum's children books, these columns are a rare insight into the mind of the author, dealing as they do with his strongest personal opinions. His advocacy of suffrage and the rights of women help explain the strong female characters in the Oz books (best seen in the strength of Glenda the Good's magic compared to the ineffectual humbuggery of the Wizard). One can also see his interest in the future, including fantasies of unlimited electrical power and methods of irrigating the plains, interests that were then displayed in the Oz books as different magical lands. Finally, you can also see him honing his talent for satire and humor, from broad-based visual pratfalls to punning wordplay, all things that would late prove useful in his career as a children's novelist.<br />Baum failed as a newspaper publisher and editor in 1891, just as he had failed years earlier as a shop keeper. But these failures proved useful when he finally found his calling as an author of whimsical children's novels, as he turned his experiences on the frontier into settings and characters for his books. Today, Baum's books are constantly in print and remain in the hearts of children of all ages. Koupal's rescue of Baum's earlier work is a blessing for those people interested in the real Wizard of Oz.oks (best seen in the strength of Glenda the Good's magic compared to the ineffectual humbuggery of the Wizard). One can also see his interest in the future, including fantasies of unlimited electrical power and methods of irrigating the plains, interests that were then displayed in the Oz books as different magical lands. Finally, you can also see him honing his talent for satire and humor, from broad-based visual pratfalls to punning wordplay, all things that would late prove useful in his career as a children's novelist.<br />Baum failed as a newspaper publisher and editor in 1891, just as he had failed years earlier as a shop keeper. But these failures proved useful when he finally found his calling as an author of whimsical children's novels, as he turned his experiences on the frontier into settings and characters for his books. Today, Baum's books are constantly in print and remain in the hearts of children of all ages. Koupal's rescue of Baum's earlier work is a blessing for those people interested in the real Wizard of Oz.	2002-09-04
1419555:US	53084041	R70JW5S61OU0U	0887308589	59233487	The Dilbert Principle: A Cubicle's-Eye View of Bosses, Meetings, Management Fads & Other Workplace Afflictions	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A much needed parody with some decent advice hidden inside	If there's a mascot for Internet users, it's the nerdy engineer Dilbert from Scott Adams' comic strip of the same name. No other character in the mass media combines the feelings of technological superiority and wage-slave hopelessness present in the lives of most computer users. But the play of computer users versus management is only part of Adams' comic ouevre; his hilarious take on everyday blue-collar workers touches not only on computer use in companies, but the combined forces of Total Quality Management, endless meetings, doughnuts, cubicles, business plans, and all the other aspects of working in a modern office. Although most of Adams' strips play on the plight of the nameless cubicle worker against an uncaring and oblivious management, he also covers the flip side of work where managers are unable to motivate employees beyond using the office LAN for Doom and the fine art of making sleep look like work. Given all of this familiarity with business, and the increasing popularity of business books, it makes sense that Adams' most recent book, The Dilbert Principle isn't a collection of Dilbert strips but a incisive look at the frailty and foibles of self-help management books under the guise of being one itself.<br />Business books were overdue to move from the bestseller list to the parody shelf. What was once simply just a few \\"feel-good\\"self-help psychology books for managers like Stephen R.Covey's 7 Habits of Highly Effective People and Kenneth Blanchard's The One Minute Manager is now a plague, including books like The Management Secrets of Attila the Hun and The Star Trek Guide to Management. What these books spend so many words doing that Adams deconstructs so brilliantly is to take what is common sense to anybody else and grafting the buzz words of business schools and management training on it. Take, for example, this wonderful bit of normal business communication that might have come straight from Management 101:<br />\\"Perform world-class product development, financial analysis, and feet services using empowered team dynamics in a Total Quality paradigm until we become the industry leader.<br />Take out the double-speak, and what you have is a mission statement that says:<br />\\"Do the best work to provide the best product with the best people until we become the best in our field.\\"<br />Unfortunately, the first statement probably took ten people who get paid in the high five figures (if not more) at least three days at an exclusive resort in Florida to write. Even more than mission statements such as this, business double-speak of the nineties has centered around terms such as \\"downsizing\\" and \\"re-engineering\\". By putting a different spin on the timeless tradition of firing and re-organization, today's companies act more like politicians than producers.<br />Ninety-five percent of Adams book is examples such as this, cartoons illustrating the examples, and email from Dilbert readers telling how their companies have fallen into the Dilbert Zone. All of this is great reading, although sometimes disconcerting when you see your own company being portrayed. The last five percent of The Dilbert Principle is Scott Adams' own philosophy for managers. He says, in the introduction to unveiling his company model OA5 (standing for \\"Out at Five O'Clock\\"), that:<br />\\"In this chapter you will find a variety of untested suggestions from an author who has never successfully managed anything but his cats. (And now that I think of it, I haven't seen the grey one for two days.) ... I doubt that anything you read here will improve your life, but I'm fairly confident that it won't hurt you either, and that's better than a lot of things you're doing now.\\"<br />Although humble, his suggestions have much merit because they return the business of work to common sense. When a company remembers, as Adams suggests, that it has three main reasons for being (its customers, its employees, and its stockholders), and treats all three fairly,then the rest will fall into place. If all the management consultants and business book authors condensed their theories into brief summaries such as this, it would be tough to charge [amt]an hour and [amt] per book for it. Which means that there will always be consultants and treatises for the clueless, and an endless supply of material for Adams' cartoon., then the rest will fall into place. If all the management consultants and business book authors condensed their theories into brief summaries such as this, it would be tough to charge [amt]an hour and [amt] per book for it. Which means that there will always be consultants and treatises for the clueless, and an endless supply of material for Adams' cartoon.	2002-09-04
1419578:US	53084041	R1OHJ0XE5MQNEM	1569470545	56387718	Hippopotamus	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Still fun	Fry's second novel, The Hippopotamus, isn't quite the romp of the first. Some of this is due to the linearity of the plot, the third-personness of its many epistolary sections, but even more, I think that Fry had spent his wild oats in the first, and took a more leisurely approach to this second. Again, the title refers to the main point-of-view character, in this case a failed poet cum editor cum reviewer named Ted Wallace. The story opens with Wallace being sacked from his most recent post of drama columnist, and we soon learn Wallace's views on both drama, newspapers, and the power of alcohol. While wallowing in self-pity, Wallace finds himself drawn into being a different sort of cynic by the machinations of both of his godchildren.<br />Like The Liar, the plot of The Hippopotamus has its sharp right angles. There is no direct subplot here, but there are many tales within other tales and background that is necessary to fill in before we achieve the climax.<br />A previous reviewer compared Fry's novels to Monty Python, and the comparison is entirely appropriate. While nothing like the actual content of the Pythons, Fry has assumed the mantle of their irreverent and, at times, illogical way of approaching traditional media. In these novels, Fry commits most every sin that the pedantical English Lit clergy have made canonical. The fact that the books are still enjoyable indicates to me that he had malice aforethought. Given the strength of these works, I sincerely hope that Fry never achieves Hollywood stardom, thus depriving us of any more of these wonderful bits of crime.	2002-09-04
1419692:US	53084041	RIPWQWA2TO79L	0786861592	546321406	Myst: The Book of Atrus	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Doesn't read like a game	As Howard Cosell titled his autobiography, \\"I never played the game.\\" I don't even have a CD-ROM drive yet. But I would have had to have been living in a fissure in the earth to be totally clueless about MYST, the phenomenally popular CD-ROM game that has become multimedia's first bestseller and first classic. From people who have played it, I know that MYST is more than a game, it is an experience--an immersion into another world, where things are strange and wonderful. The game works, they say, because it is as rich in its complex storyline as it is in its state-of-the-art graphics.<br />MYST is more than a game in another respect as well now, with the publication of Myst: The Book of Atrus written by the game's authors, Rand and Robyn Miller, in collaboration with David Wingrove (author of the Chung Kuo series of science fiction novels). A novel based on the game was inevitable, given the rich source material. The fact that the Millers chose to write the book themselves rather than sharecrop it to a third party showed an extreme level of hubris. Doubtless the y realized this, and approached Wingrove as an expert novelist, to help them accomplish a seamless transition from computer game to novel.<br />Myst: The Book of Atrus is a story that details the background behind the story of the CD-ROM, much like J.R.R. Tolkien's The Silmarillion is the background behind The Lord of the Rings. The comparison is particularly apt--the brothers Miller, like Tolkien, are meticulous craftsmen and took the time to build the myths and legends of their world, creating a much more complex and involving tale in the process. Atrus, the protagonist of this novel, is the father of the two brothers upon which the story of the CD-ROM is based. The story itself is not that unusual for fantasy--a young boy is orphaned by the death of his mother and the disappearance of his father. Raised by his grandmother, he comes to value her teaching but longs for more than the simple life that she has made for herself. Then the father returns, demanding his son to follow him to help reestablish their noble race, the D'Ni.<br />But as any reader knows, it is not the simple plot that defines a book, but the details that embellish a novel, and the Millers and Wingrove have provided not only the embellishment, but the exhilaration of wonder necessary for a genre novel. The conflict between authoritarian parents and inquisitive children, between goals and means, are the basic building blocks of any good work of fiction, and the authors do not neglect it. But it is in the description and workings of The Art, the \\"science\\" behind the world creation of the D'Ni, that brings to the book its driving interest and captivation. I am sure it is no accident that The Art, with its emphasis on the power of the written word, of the proper placement of description, also describes the process of novel creation itself; in academic circles, this self-reflection is called metafiction, and the authors here carry it off with panache if not subtlety. What is interesting is that this description of The Art can be broadened to include any act of creation, with a special nod to the creation of an artificial world such as those portrayed in novels, movies, and multimedia computer games.<br />I thought it would be interesting to read Myst: The Book of Atrus and see if it was a self-contained piece of fiction that could be enjoyed by those of use who remain CD-ROM challenged. Does Myst: The Story of Atrus stand alone? Yes, and surprisingly well. I have no doubt that this would have been well received without the phenomena of the game behind it. And, unlike Tolkien's The Silmarillion, this was a book that the authors had the opportunity to polish and prepare for their audience. Tolkien's masterpiece spawned the modern fantasy industry, of which some novels barely masked their inspiration. Myst has already inspired several productions similar in nature--as well as a couple of parodies, the nextsincerest form of flattery. The publication of this pre-history will only further cement its seminal nature on the burgeoning multimedia industry.sincerest form of flattery. The publication of this pre-history will only further cement its seminal nature on the burgeoning multimedia industry.	2002-09-04
1419769:US	53084041	R28ICAPLI6GWVD	0786402059	503749479	Social and Ethical Effects of the Computer Revolution	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A good start for academics	The growth of the computer industry has been truly amazing. Nonexistent forty years ago, the computer seems to be here to stay and to become a part of our lives just as television, radio, and the automobile did before it in this century, and as the plow, the wheel, and the tool did in prehistory. Each of these is a tool, a method by which humans perform work, whether it be an interaction with the environment or each other. As each basic tool has been introduced, society and culture have been irrevocably changed. In every case, the tool is just a tool; how humans use it determines whether it is beneficial or detrimental to society. Sociologists are only now turning their gaze at this newest tool in our culture, trying to determine its impacts on existing structures and helping to formulate guidelines for future development and use. Recently published by McFarland & Company is a collection of papers on this subject entitled Social and Ethical Effects of the Computer Revolution, edited by Joseph Migga Kizza.<br />I'm not going to try and fool you into thinking this is entertaining reading, although some of you might find it so. Kizza and his contributors are academics who are both avidly interested in the subject, yet also writing for publication. Some of the articles here suffer the usual problems of academic writing: belaboring the obvious, repetitious, lecturing rather than discussing, and the inevitable \\"more research will be needed.\\" For readers willing to persevere, however, there are some jewels hidden here. First off, skip \\"The Development of the 'Killer Robot' and Professor Cleareye, Outstanding Teacher Award Recipient\\" by Richard Gary Epstein, even though it looks to have potential. You are better off not having to suffer the poorly written fiction describing Professor Cleareye; Epstein may be an excellect computer studies teacher, but I wouldn't take a class in creative writing from him. Do, however, take a dive into \\"The Internet and Ethics: Dilemma and Decisions for Institutions of Higher Education,\\" a study by B.C. Chic Day and Pat C. Day that describes their study of a hypothetical study viewing pornography on the Internet using university resources. Their findings illustrate that, while most students understand the ethics of the situation, a firm policy regarding the university's actions in this event are required by both new and older students. Similar in nature is the study by Andrew B. Morris (\\"Effective Information Management: A Question of Ethics?\\"), worthwhile reading for Information Technology managers having to deal with fresh college recruits. Morris study effectively gives you a window into the current ethical thought of today's graduates.<br />There are other useful articles for IT managers and workers elsewhere in this volume, including the entire section on \\"Software Reliability and Computer Security.\\" The three articles that make up this section elaborate various cases for information management responsibility in a world increasingly dependent on both the functions of software and the storage of data. The section entitled \\"The Professions and the Workplace Issues\\" details various stances on the issues of professional accountability for information workers, including the possible establishment of a certification system (now handled informally by software vendors for their various products, such as the Novell Netware Certified Engineer certification, rather than by an independent association such as those for lawyers and medical doctors). Looking towards the future, the authors of the articles within \\"Artificial Intelligence and Cyberspace\\" attempt to codify what we mean by human values versus the possible mechanistic values inherent in our systems. While this may seem the stuff of science fiction and true artificial intelligence may never emerge from the laboratory, it is imperative that AI is not created independent of human ideas.<br />Social and Ethical Effects of the Computer Revolution is not meant for the general reader. It is a specialized book that is useful for both computer academics and information management professionals as a means to shape the future role of computer technology. Likely to be best utilized as a textbook in a class on information technology ethics, it should also be read by IT managers who make long-range plans regarding systems growth and future use, including those on the governing boards of the Internet and Internet access policy makers. Likely the first volume of many to follow, this book is a good start to the necessary codification needed in this newborn field.nt for the general reader. It is a specialized book that is useful for both computer academics and information management professionals as a means to shape the future role of computer technology. Likely to be best utilized as a textbook in a class on information technology ethics, it should also be read by IT managers who make long-range plans regarding systems growth and future use, including those on the governing boards of the Internet and Internet access policy makers. Likely the first volume of many to follow, this book is a good start to the necessary codification needed in this newborn field.	2002-09-04
1419937:US	53084041	R4M5JWLUWXAN	156947012X	835538748	The Liar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unpredictable romp	Fry's first novel is a more-than-promising debut, a novel of magnificent flights-of-fanciful wordplay within a complex structure of shifting time and points-of-view. It's not perfect, by all means, but it more than makes up for its little faux pas with the sheer audacity of its style and scope. The book centers around the life of one Adrian Healey, a boy-man who is an incontrovertible prevaricator. We meet Adrian at English public school, and instantly we are charmed. While he is no role-model, his is the type of quick wit that most of us would like to have. And since the point-of-view is Adrian's, we also come to understand some of the seedier aspects of his soul. The delivery is similar to Tom Brown's Schooldays or the &quot;boy's school&quot; novels that Wodehouse wrote before he started righting the record of valets and aunts.<br />To this plebeian plot Fry overlays a post-Cold War bit of skullduggery, full of code names and mysterious packages, sudden deaths and people described simply by the type of clothing they are wearing. There is a definite link between the two plots from the beginning, but the ties that bind are less than apparent. It is in this Fleming/Carre subplot where the novel slacks off a bit, but even when the novel seems to have finally turned a predictable corner, you discover that Fry's quite the sly one. Like a lie repeated over time, everything seems to make sense until it all adds up and doesn't. Let me assure you, you will not be able to predict where this novel is going.	2002-09-04
1420096:US	53084041	R38AJ27E6HJUC0	0679745408	117088007	Technopoly: The Surrender of Culture to Technology	Books	5	176	183	N	N	a Love-Hate relationship	I love technology. I tell you this, even though it must be obvious to you considering where these words are appearing. I love technology, but I'm not blind to its problems. To those who say technology has no faults, I ask you when was the last time your computer crashed or whatever happened to that grand notion of a &quot;paperless office&quot;? Technology is something between Pandora's box and Prometheus' gift; I would not want to live without it because I've read history, but I can also imagine an even better world.<br />Neil Postman may or may not love technology, but he certainly knows its failings. Postman is the author of several books on the interplay between American culture and technology, and his most recent, Technopoly, is in some ways a culmination of his previous efforts. Postman is an educator who is distressed by the state of American education. Instead of simply decrying the fact that schools are changing and moaning for a return to the &quot;good ol' days,&quot; Postman took the time to understand the nature of the beast, dissect it, and present his conservation strategy. As he states, his idea of getting &quot;back to the basics&quot; is not quite the same as that typically bandied about by politicians and policy makers.<br />First, the argument. Postman describes what he calls the three stages of how a culture deals with technology: 1) tool-using, 2) technocracy, 3) technopoly. In a tool-using culture, technical improvements are limited to the uses at hand. This differs from the technocracy, where the tools &quot;play a central role in the thought world of the culture.&quot; In the technopoly, tools become the culture. Astute readers may sense a possible linkage here with Alvin Toffler's three waves of culture detailed in The Third Wave. Toffler views each wave as having a trough and crest, with monumental social impact happening as each wave breaks upon the shore of human culture. Toffler says the reason for the breakdown in our traditional structures today is that we are in the break between the second and third wave. Toffler predicts a time of stability in the future, in which this new wave of culture and technology will have enhanced all of our lives. Postman and Toffler are not exactly foes in their views of the waves of culture, but differ on how we are to approach this change. Toffler implies that it will sort itself out -- a type of laissez-faire view of societal change that makes it easier to understand Toffler's ties to Newt Gingrich. Postman feels we must address the change, or it will destroy us.<br />To that end, Postman writes a history of the growth of technology in American society. His history centers on the impact of technology on the medical profession -- how it saw the progression of each technological stage to the detriment of both doctors and patients. As damning as this evaluation is, he follows it with an even better one from our standpoint: the impact of computers on American culture. As I said before, I love technology, and computer technology most of all, but it was impossible not to follow Postman's clear and reasoned analysis of the computer's impact on society.<br />Had Postman ended here, having formulated his theory and verified it with examples, the book would have been simply interesting, but Postman follows it with a suggested course of action. It is unsurprising that, as an educator, his solutions center on this area of society, but he states that his suggestions could never be implemented without being supported in the political and legal arenas, to name two. Postman proposes a goal for American education -- no longer, he says, can we simply train people for employment (the current state of education), but we must instill in people a purpose. His proposed goal is the betterment of humanity. To achieve this goal, he suggests that we get back to the basics in our schools, but by this he means the study of the underlying assumptions of our culture rather than just basic skills. That is, he posits a curriculum that includes the history of every subject as part of that subject, including the history (or ideology) of history itself. Only by understanding how we came to be in the place we stand now, will we be able to move forward.<br />Only a few days before I finished reading Technopoly, Microsoft and MCI announced an initiative to get every public school a presence on the Internet. While it is a generous offer, we should examine the purpose of it all. How exactly will this aid our educational goals? I love technology and I'm bullish on the prospect of the interactive properties of the Internet to help bring about a new form of thinking, critical Americans (especially as opposed to the last mass media technology that came about, television), but that does not mean that the implementation of the technology does not need to be evaluated. And this, in a nutshell, is what Postman is about. I've probably done a major disservice to Postman in summarizing so much of his treatise here, but I hope that it has been sufficiently intriguing that it actually got you to thinking. I suggest as a follow-up that you try the text itself or some of the works listed in the bibliography. It is what I'll be doing.ls. That is, he posits a curriculum that includes the history of every subject as part of that subject, including the history (or ideology) of history itself. Only by understanding how we came to be in the place we stand now, will we be able to move forward.<br />Only a few days before I finished reading Technopoly, Microsoft and MCI announced an initiative to get every public school a presence on the Internet. While it is a generous offer, we should examine the purpose of it all. How exactly will this aid our educational goals? I love technology and I'm bullish on the prospect of the interactive properties of the Internet to help bring about a new form of thinking, critical Americans (especially as opposed to the last mass media technology that came about, television), but that does not mean that the implementation of the technology does not need to be evaluated. And this, in a nutshell, is what Postman is about. I've probably done a major disservice to Postman in summarizing so much of his treatise here, but I hope that it has been sufficiently intriguing that it actually got you to thinking. I suggest as a follow-up that you try the text itself or some of the works listed in the bibliography. It is what I'll be doing.	2002-09-04
1420246:US	53084041	RIX5TAQ5CWZ97	0140291776	332897261	Insanely Great: The Life and Times of Macintosh, the Computer that Changed Everything	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Reminiscing	I bought my first computer, a Macintosh, in 1984. I had wanted a computer for years, watching friends with envy at their Commodore 64s, Radio Shack Color Computers, and wonderful Apple IIs. When the Macintosh was introduced in 1984, I had to have it. It was the computer built \\"for the rest of us.\\" Never mind that I could have had everything I needed in a computer--word processing program, a few games--for $$$, as soon as I sat down in front of the Macintosh, my life changed. The Macintosh, and the entire graphical user interface concept, was truly \\"insanely great,\\" as Steven Levy quotes Steve Jobs, former chairman of Apple Computers. In his new book, Insanely Great: The Life and Times of Macintosh, the Computer That Changed Everything, Levy reveals how and why the Macintosh had such an impact on the world.<br />Although the Macintosh debuted in 1984, the seeds of its design had been planted as early as 1945. In a post-war statement, Vannevar Bush, then the director of the U.S. Office of Scientific Research and Development, wrote an essay in which he contended that the next step of technology should be the way we collect and process information. Having seen the early use of computers in the war, Bush realized the awesome potential of high-speed information management, but also knew that progress would have to be made in the interface if ever information management could be useful. Levy follows the chain that links Bush to Alan Kay, who proposed the Dynabook, a forerunner of today's PDA technology, to the developers at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center who developed the first graphical user interface (GUI). Nearby, a small team of dedicated programmers were working on the low-cost hardware that became teamed with the new GUI concept that became the Macintosh.<br />Much has been written about the originality of the GUI concept, and more than one lawsuit has been fought over it. Levy attempts to go beyond the simple desktop metaphor and explain why it was the particular Macintosh implementation of the concept that changed the way people viewed computers. Xerox's researchers were quite happy just to discover \\"how\\" to do things; it was Jef Raskin, Steve Jobs, Bill Atkinson, Andy Hertzfield, and the rest of the Macintosh team that were driven to give GUI to the people. The concept alone didn't change the world of computing--it was the concept, in a reasonably priced computer, with a \\"killer application\\" that showed just how intuitive the concept could be that made things happen. Early Macintosh adoptees like myself thought it was the \\"What You See is What You Get\\" word processing and graphic programs that would make everyone see the light. It took Aldus' PageMaker to break the publishing barrier for the \\"rest of us\\" to wake up to the possibilities.<br />The Macintosh implementation had (and has) its problems, which Levy does not gloss over. The initial Macintosh, that computer that I bought in 1984, was released underpowered (128k RAM), without enough storage space (it only had a single floppy drive capable of holding 400k), and crippled in expandability (it was a \\"closed\\" system without expansion slots). Apple knew this upon its release, but \\"real programmers ship,\\" as Jobs is quoted saying, and the Macintosh had to be out the door in 1984. Apple quickly followed the 128k Macintosh with an upgrade to 512k and a 800k disk drive, then with new models including a Macintosh with slots.<br />The author, Steven Levy, is perhaps best known in the field for his first book, Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution. Levy's position as an industry journalist kept him in the midst of the impact of the Macintosh, with access to Jobs, John Sculley, Jean Louis Gasse, Bill Gates, Aldus' president Paul Brainerd, and almost every member of the Macintosh development team. This chronicle of the development of the Macintosh is part history, part evaluation of the hits and misses, the politics and relationships, of all these people. Every implementation of the GUI interface as seen in the Macintosh was deeply argued, as was its cost, hardware, and \\"look.\\" Levy shows you that a product such as Macintosh, which is usually attributed to a few people, is actually the culmination of the development team, and also their forerunners, including the Xerox team, and their competitors, most notably Microsoft and IBM.<br />Today, the GUI concept is ever present. My original Macintosh (which I fondly call the MacAntique), after being upgraded once, has been passed to my niece and nephew (who, to be entirely truthful, play more with their father's Mac II than with the antique), and I replaced it four years ago with an IBM-PC clone that runs today's most popular GUI, Microsoft Windows (the defection was a result of economics--I couldn't afford a new Macintosh). The last command-line holdout, UNIX, is battering down the hatches in defense against the migration of the GUI in the form of the WWW, Java, and its ilk. The Macintosh revolution is twelve, and shows no signs of dying anytime soon. For those who want to understand the early shots--computerdom's equivalent's of the Boston Tea Party and the shot that was heard round the world--Levy's book is a good primer.n of the GUI interface as seen in the Macintosh was deeply argued, as was its cost, hardware, and \\"look.\\" Levy shows you that a product such as Macintosh, which is usually attributed to a few people, is actually the culmination of the development team, and also their forerunners, including the Xerox team, and their competitors, most notably Microsoft and IBM.<br />Today, the GUI concept is ever present. My original Macintosh (which I fondly call the MacAntique), after being upgraded once, has been passed to my niece and nephew (who, to be entirely truthful, play more with their father's Mac II than with the antique), and I replaced it four years ago with an IBM-PC clone that runs today's most popular GUI, Microsoft Windows (the defection was a result of economics--I couldn't afford a new Macintosh). The last command-line holdout, UNIX, is battering down the hatches in defense against the migration of the GUI in the form of the WWW, Java, and its ilk. The Macintosh revolution is twelve, and shows no signs of dying anytime soon. For those who want to understand the early shots--computerdom's equivalent's of the Boston Tea Party and the shot that was heard round the world--Levy's book is a good primer.	2002-09-04
1425163:US	53084041	R34JDGOKT1BOR8	0079121845	130392835	The Internet Graphics Toolkit: Steve Rimmer's Vip Tour	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Quickly outdated	Now that you've paid for your own domain name, and invested the thousands of dollars into your Web server, you decide that it is time to put your company's web page into place. Rather than jump immediately onto the bandwagon, and put up one of those incredibly annoying \\"Under Construction\\" pages, you decided to make sure everything was nice and clean before you went public. But after spending hours and hours writing the text and scanning in your product line, you find that something's just not right. Maybe it's the extreme graininess of the photo that you are using for your one-of-a-kind product. Or maybe you wanted that logo of yours to look like it is floating on the page, yet you can't get rid of the ugly white box that is around it. You need help. Luckily, there's plenty of help to go around, and one of the best for Web graphics is Steve Rimmer's The Internet Graphics Toolkit[1].<br />Rimmer's tools for manipulating graphics (such as Graphic Workshop) can be found on many places on the Web, including his own site. If all you need is the tool, the book is only so much packaging around the CD-ROM. But if you are interested in the why behind Internet graphics, or the history of computer graphic formats, Rimmer's book is a nice and concise course. Without getting too technical, Rimmer is able to dissect the multitude of graphics problems and questions that most beginners have, and lead them on a path to better web-making. Intermediate to advanced users will likely find this information either trivial or not useful, although I find a book like this to be handy when dealing with Webmaster neophytes.<br />The speed at which the Internet has been evolving likely makes this review obselete even before it's written, as new web servers and make-up programs hit the scene with even more power than Graphic Workshop. However, as an introduction to the increasily complex graphical nature of the Web, Rimmer's Toolkit is a basic screwdriver and hammer that can be used to build simple to complex sites, depending only on your experience.mple to complex sites, depending only on your experience.	2002-08-29
1425185:US	53084041	R21P2SZJO3P1QW	0394759893	518668665	The Last Good Kiss	Books	5	99	103	N	N	Modern hard-boiled detective...with a twist	Gardner Dozois recommended James Crumley's The Last Good Kiss to me as the best hard-boiled detective novel written in the last ten years. With that kind of recommendation, I would have been hard-pressed to pass it up. And Dozois is correct, as far as I can tell. Crumley's C.W. Sughrue has that quality that I thought was lost when I finished reading the last Dashiell Hammett story. But Crumley isn't just playing off of Hammett and Chandler, although he is firmly in their tradition. Crumley is as post-modern as they come, and knows that life and people are as sleazy as anything James Ellroy or Andrew Vachss has put to the page (not to even mention the real thing).<br /> C.W. Sughrue is hired to track down a derelict author who's on a drinking binge by the author's ex-wife. What begins so simply quickly soon complicates--I can't quite explain how complicated it becomes, either. There's a point in the middle of the novel where I said to myself, &quot;Well, that's it. We've had the set-up, the complication, a little goose-chase, a climax, and here we are.&quot; But I was only halfway through the book. Contrary to normal novel structure, Crumley leaves you hanging within the denouement while he sets up an entirely new climax not once or twice, but three times.<br /> Crumley has taught literature in Texas, Arkansas and Montana, and understands the directions recent fiction has taken. Although he's not about to give up the traditional, he has assimilated some of the modern tricks. The ending, in particular, is something that I doubt you would have seen in a previous decade.<br /> All in all, Crumley is a voice that is worth looking out for. On the basis of The Last Good Kiss, I plan to search out his other two novels and his short story collection. I recommend that you do, also.	2002-08-29
1425215:US	53084041	RT2IAWFIYWVPX	0782118917	901583920	The Internet Instant Reference (Sybex Instant Reference Series)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Basic but useful	You are probably like me, thinking that you would never need a general reference book on the Internet. You've been around from the start, before there was even elm, and you know your way around a Unix prompt. But really, how long has it been since you had to use elm and the vi editor? Now that you've got Eudora to handle your email, and you've been following each successive release of Netscape Navigator to play with JAVA and VRML, chances are that it's been a few years since you had to stare at a % and type a command. I know because I've been there--my company sent me to Santa Fe, New Mexico for two weeks on a job assignment and I was adrift without my PPP connection. I found Zuma's Electronic Cafe, an Internet cafe (a place where you can rent time on a computer with an Internet connection), but to check my mail at my home system I was forced to rely on telnet. I remembered how to get connected, and I remembered how to run elm, but as soon as I went to reply to a message and got thrown into a character based editor, I had to admit that I was stumped. Was it CTRL-C to exit, or the ESC key?<br />That's where a book like Paul E. Hoffman's The Internet Instant Reference: Third Edition [1] can come in handy. Hoffman covers those little known commands for the remaining popular character-based software for dealing with the Internet, programs like ee, elm, ftp, lynx, nn, rn, tin, and vi, along with a brief history of the creation of the Internet, the bodies that &quot;govern&quot; it, and coverage of every major Internet focus. While a lot of this will be unnecessary for long-time users, newcomers could benefit greatly from having a single reference source to check for some of the more esoteric aspects of the system.<br />The Internet Instant Reference is thoroughly researched. Hoffman even surprised me with some of the &quot;governing body&quot; information (I had not known that there as a &quot;Internet Monthly Report&quot; that covered the discussion of standards and forecasts for Internet growth, security, and stability). And, like any great reference work, it is as easy to read for the beginning user as it provides needed information for the experienced.<br />There's likely to come a time when a book like this will be unnecessary, given the trend on the Internet to more graphic-based programs that have help for users built-in to the applications themselves. Until that time, however, The Internet Instant Reference can help rescue from the forgotten terrors of the Unix prompt.ecasts for Internet growth, security, and stability). And, like any great reference work, it is as easy to read for the beginning user as it provides needed information for the experienced.<br />There's likely to come a time when a book like this will be unnecessary, given the trend on the Internet to more graphic-based programs that have help for users built-in to the applications themselves. Until that time, however, The Internet Instant Reference can help rescue from the forgotten terrors of the Unix prompt.	2002-08-29
1425362:US	53084041	R2WA1RKFVNRUVF	0300074360	755108955	The Enchanted World of Sleep	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Academic, but interesting	We spend a full third of our life sleeping, but what do we really know about it. Why do we sleep? What causes us to sleep? What happens when we sleep? All these questions remain unanswered, but scientists are working--dare I say it? oh, why not--around the clock to explain why we can't work around the clock.<br />On the academic side, the latest report from the somnabulent world is Peretz Lavie's The Enchanted World of Sleep. Translated from the original Hebrew with aplomb by Anthony Berris, Lavie's book introduces us to the world of scientific sleep study through one of the original sleep institutes, the Sleep Laboratory at the Technion--the Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa. Prof. Lavie, who is dean of the Faculty of Medicine and head of the Laboratory, is uniquely qualified to give such a historical perspective, because he did his graduate work under Prof. Bernie Webb, one of the founders of sleep research.<br />It should be noted that what these scientists are studying is the mechanisms of sleep. While dream state is included in this, they are interested in only the fact that someone is dreaming, not about what the dream relates. Such dream studies are the province of psychologists. Prof. Lavie and his collegues are medical doctors who are interested in the physiology of sleep--what happens when people are deprived of sleep through natural (brain disorders, etc.) and unnatural (sleep deprivation experiments, etc.) events. One of the many myths exploded in this book is that a majority of people sleep poorly. Instead, Prof. Lavie proves, people only think they don't sleep well, whereas in comparison studies, their sleep is as even as the next persons. The person's opinion is solely based on a perception that occurs during the first thirty minutes of sleep, and can be easily corrected by controlling simple environmental variables (noise, light, etc.). While The Enchanted World of Sleep is meant for an audience of his peers, it is written as much as a personal memoir, detailing his own experiences with patients at the Sleep Laboratory. The author comparison that I was inevitably drawn to is that of Dr. Oliver Sacks, who also explains some tough medical mysteries by using personal experience.memoir, detailing his own experiences with patients at the Sleep Laboratory. The author comparison that I was inevitably drawn to is that of Dr. Oliver Sacks, who also explains some tough medical mysteries by using personal experience.	2002-08-29
1425652:US	53084041	RP7IEITX55VPE	0883904845	477248286	Point, Click & Wow!!: A Quick Guide to Brilliant Laptop Presentations	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A rehash of all that stuff you should know	In the same vein of books that you really don't need but somehow still end up being useful is Point, Click and Wow! A Quick Guide to Brilliant Laptop Presentations by Claudyne Wilder and David Fine. There is really nothing in this book that should not be obvious to anyone with common sense, but since so few of us have that important trait these days, it is a good thing that Wilder and Fine have written this book to remind us of it. Designed with the presenter in mind, although with a couple of nods to the presentation creators, Wilder and Fine step through the intricacies of performing a presentation using today's technology, including the horrors of laptops that stop working just as you stand up in front of an audience, presenters more enamored of their presentation technology that with their topic, and design faux pas like changing colors with every slide and having the text in an eight point font.<br />Experienced field people will find a lot of this book a rehash of their own problems incorporating the new technology into their business along with some simple guidelines about presentation itself. However, for those who have yet to move from overhead transparencies to the rich world of presentation software, or for those new hires wanting to make an early splash in the field, this covers the basics. Truthfully, it's not the presentation that makes the product, but just as we are constantly at war trying not to judge a book by its cover, it is often the cover (or the presentation) by which a sale is lost or made, and pity the poor presenter that loses this point.	2002-08-29
1425694:US	53084041	RR7E8C5G8UFZ9	014018869X	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	I never meta-parody I didn't like	Through the late 1900s and into the 20th century, English novelists were full of woeful tales chronicling the sad fall of gentry from affluence to poverty. Stories like Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice joined the work of Charlotte and Emily Bronte, entertaining the turn of the century reader with these melodramatic tales. By the 1920s, when some had thought this trend had passed, it moved into another phase, with pulp paperbacks filled with lurid descriptions and the purplish prose imaginable. Stella Gibbons in 1932 attempted an emergency rescue, and succeeded wonderfully with her novel, Cold Comfort Farm, recently re-released to coincide with a new movie version by director John Schlesinger.<br />Flora Poste is the recently orphaned waif who finds it necessary to impose herself on some body of relatives. Her meager inheritance of 100 pounds a year is not enough &quot;keep you in stockings and fans,&quot; as her good friend Mrs. Smiling remarks. She writes to several distant family members and receives three replies. Most of them are appaling, except for the one from her cousin Judith Starkadder, which is, at least, interesting and appaling. She writes back and accepts the offer of boarding from Cold Comfort Farm, to find out what &quot;rights&quot; she has that cousin Judith mysteriously refers to. Her arrival at Cold Comfort begins a warming trend that ends up firing up every Starkadder in sight, including: Amos, the hellfire-and-brimstone owner of the farm and preacher to the Quivering Brethern; Reuben, his son and would-be caretaker of Cold Comfort; Seth, the hunk-a-hunk-a burning love that has terrorized the female countriside, to his mother's extreme shame; the flighty Elfine, who whisks around in ethereal garments quoting her own poetry; and the matriarch who rules Cold Comfort Farm with a iron fist, Aunt Ada Doom, who saw something &quot;nasty in the woodshed&quot; when she was a little girl, and who hasn't left Cold Comfort Farm since.<br />Gibbons is artfully playing on the conventions of the melodrama, and it helps the reader to be familiar with the work of Thomas Hardy or Jane Austen to fully appreciate some of the playful work here. Without this meta-nature, Cold Comfort Farm would be amusing, but not nearly as effective. For modern readers, this is one novel that has weathered the intervening sixty years well, due in some part to Gibbons deft touch with her satire, but also her clear, readable style when not trying to out-purple the purple prose-wizards of the melodramas.<br />This is the perfect novel for those book-weary high-school students still suffering under the weighty tomes of &quot;literature&quot; that is force-fed to them by our assembly-factory education system. A good dose of parody, a kind of 1930s National Lampoon, should help them feel better about books, and literature in general.ully playing on the conventions of the melodrama, and it helps the reader to be familiar with the work of Thomas Hardy or Jane Austen to fully appreciate some of the playful work here. Without this meta-nature, Cold Comfort Farm would be amusing, but not nearly as effective. For modern readers, this is one novel that has weathered the intervening sixty years well, due in some part to Gibbons deft touch with her satire, but also her clear, readable style when not trying to out-purple the purple prose-wizards of the melodramas.<br />This is the perfect novel for those book-weary high-school students still suffering under the weighty tomes of &quot;literature&quot; that is force-fed to them by our assembly-factory education system. A good dose of parody, a kind of 1930s National Lampoon, should help them feel better about books, and literature in general.	2002-08-29
1425709:US	53084041	RDVCUA2LGFCYM	0385418140	133733347	Canal Dreams	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Real-life horror	Banks' first novel, The Wasp Factory, was a surprise within a surprise--a well-written horror novel that was also a well-written &quot;mainstream&quot; novel. Since then, Banks has continued to surprise mainstream readers with surrealistic novels like Walking on Glass and The Bridge, as well as surprising science fiction readers with intelligent space opera like Consider Phelbas and The Player of Games (Banks' space opera compares favorably with Hyperion by Dan Simmons).<br />In Canal Dreams, Banks revisits the type of realistic horror found in The Wasp Factory. Hisako Onada is a Japanese cellist who refuses to fly, yet wishes to tour Europe. Her agent books her passage on a Japanese freighter, and she gets caught up in a revolution when her ship becomes trapped in the Panama Canal. That's one part of the story. Another story line explores Hisako's background, from the sacrifices that her mother makes early on as she makes it clear that she wishes to play the cello, through the very rigorous Japanese education process, to joining a major Japanese orchestra. The background serves as an important counterpoint to the other storyline, explaining that her refusal to fly is based on a true phobia. Banks is pointing out that phobias are irrational fears, that have no bearing on the bravery or bearing of the person. When the realtime storyline turns wicked, one isn't surprised at Hisako's actions or her ability to weather hardship.<br />Banks' horror is like Stephen King's Firestarter without the pyrokinetic, or Thomas Harris' Silence of the Lambs without the psychopaths. Canal Dreams is a novel about the kind of horror seen all too frequently in the news, and occurs even more frequently in the real world. And that is true horror.	2002-08-29
1425787:US	53084041	R14QWA8YHAJLRJ	0679726470	443767742	001: The Complete Monty Python's Flying Circus; All the Words Volume One	Books	5	10	10	N	N	What's all this then?	Although I have almost memorized the entire length of Monty Python and the Holy Grail, I was never that conversant with the original series. Hark! Look here. What's this? All the Words: The Complete Monty Python's Flying Circus (Pantheon, 1989). Danger, danger, Will Robinson. Now I can be insufferable at parties, as I quickly memorize pertinent sections of this compendium. Now I too can say &quot;Your Majesty is like a big jam doughnut with cream on the top,&quot; and know that the follow-up is &quot;like a doughnut, your arrival gives us pleasure, and your departure only makes us hungry for more.&quot; Unfortunately, All the Words is only the TV series. You have to (and can, fortunately) buy the scripts for the movies separately. If that doesn't satisfy your need for the python of fun, check out Kim &quot;Howard&quot; Johnson's The First 20 Years of Monty Python (St. Martin's, 1989), which supplies a wonderful biography of the group as a whole, and compliments George Perry's earlier Life of Python (Little Brown, 1983).	2002-08-29
1425824:US	53084041	R36NZJQ5OAGW2O	0684831848	557028211	Sleep Thieves	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Quite surprising actually	We spend a full third of our life sleeping, but what do we really know about it. Why do we sleep? What causes us to sleep? What happens when we sleep? All these questions remain unanswered, but scientists are working--dare I say it? oh, why not--around the clock to explain why we can't work around the clock.<br />Lighter in tone, and much more accessible to the most techno- or medio-phobic of lay readers is Sleep Thieves by Stanley Cohen. While Cohen's book does not have the same claim to impartial accuracy of the researcher, it gains ground by its engrossing style and an ability to merge folklore with medical studies. The whole, as it appears, is then dissected, and Cohen ends up destroying as many myths as Prof. Lavie in The Enchanted World of Sleep (in many cases, the same ones). Cohen does have a purpose with his book, and that is to say that as a culture, we are running up a &quot;sleep debt&quot;; that is, by denying ourselves the amount of sleep that our bodies need, we endanger ourselves and others. Before he gets to this conclusion, his common ground with Prof. Lavie is visited, including studies on sleep deprivation and its results, people's perceptions of sleep, and the amount of sleep that our bodies fall into without the self-regulating clock of the sun. His conclusion is tied together neatly, with a fine work of statistical research using the time lost and gained during the change from and to Daylight Savings Time. Lack of sleep, due to cultural demands, is a major cause of accidents that are often fatal.<br />Cohen's book, with its amazing conclusion that lives with you, makes it obvious that &quot;sleep debt&quot; is not just a funny phrase, but a real problem, and one that is being ignored by almost everyone. It is time, as Cohen ironically states, for us to wake up about sleep.	2002-08-29
1426004:US	53084041	R291Q54K75AW4V	0871131439	208273111	Riotous Assembly	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a laugh riot	A friend in Britain and I sent each other some favorite books. Since David hadn't read much SF/F, I sent him Jonathan Carroll's Bones of the Moon and James P. Blaylock's The Last Coin. In turn, he sent me some British humor: Tom Sharpe and Clive James. James' books were quite interesting--a well-written autobiography with some sly touches that never quite had me belly-laughing, but kept me reading. Sharpe, on the other hand, I fell into with a gusto. From page one of Riotous Assembly, my hands were doing double-duty turning pages and trying to keep my sides from splitting.<br /> Imagine the writer you would get if you mixed P.G. Wodehouse and Hunter Thompson, and then placed them in South Africa; that's Tom Sharpe. He indeed manages to combine the wit and language skills, as well as the awkward situations of Wodehouse with the sharpened pen of satire and low opinion of humans from Thompson, and his target is South Africa and the police forces there (I believe that he was jailed there for awhile, and ultimately deported).<br /> Upon finishing Riotous Assembly, I rushed to see if I could find any more by this Sharpe fellow. Luckily, Vintage has brought him across the sea for our enjoyment. Indecent Exposure is the sequel to Riotous Assembly and just as funny; perhaps even funnier, given the satire of the Dornford Yates club (a group of Englishmen who adore the veddy British writer Dornford Yates who is clearly an analog for Wodehouse) within the larger South African satire. I also read Wilt, in which he drops some of the satirical and plays the perverted Wodehouse more. Wilt is okay, but I would suggest you try the South African novels first. If you're like me, you'll have to read Wilt or any of his other novels then--just because you can't get enough of this amazing fellow.	2002-08-29
1426222:US	53084041	R68LBVCDHPF0U	0671724738	837175653	Postcards from the Edge	Books	3	121	140	N	N	A unique voice	Many people, myself among them, were initially turned off by Carrie Fisher's Postcards from the Edge. Oh no, here comes another Hollywood star who thinks she can run the gamut of the arts. Even though the book was a bestseller when it was released, I couldn't change my initial (and, admittedly) biased opinion--50 million Elvis fans can be wrong. Even when Surrender the Pink, Fisher's second novel, appeared and garnered acclaim, I wasn't satisfied. But then Postcards from the Edge was made into a film with Meryl Streep, and, needing a film to see, I went. And what transpired on the screen (from a screenplay by Fisher) was enough to break through my bias.<br /> Postcards from the Edge is quite different from the movie, however. The movie has a linear story that is quite clearly autobiographical for Fisher--Suzanne Vail is a young star undergoes a stomach pump, then drug rehabilitation, and it all is the result of early fame, and a famous mother that the star has yet to really come to terms with. The book, although similar in parts, has a \\"postcard\\" feel. The early section is told through the diary entries of Suzanne and Alex, an addicted young screenwriter. Later sections, told only through the point of view of Suzanne, range from entirely dialogue through more traditional third person narrative.<br /> Fisher understands the process of addiction, that searching for escape, then denial, then endless justification. Her portrayal of drug addiction goes beyond drugs--I've never taken any, but I could see the patterns of addiction in terms of my many vices. She also understands the glad-handing movie culture enough to be able to depict it as glamorous, while also showing the pimples underneath. Bret Easton Ellis has nothing on her one scene of Suzanne going shopping: the brand names, the non-sequiturs, the endless vagaries are all things he would have died to write.<br /> Carrie Fisher has a way with words. She's not the next Dorothy Parker, but there is a fine example of wit in Postcards from the Edge. It's a wit measured by the 80s, by her experience, and by her personality. Ellis can't match it, because he hasn't lived her life. And that's what makes Postcards from the Edge special: it is a book that was written by the only person who could write it. That is, it is unique. And, frankly, that's more than can be said for many books published these days.wit in Postcards from the Edge. It's a wit measured by the 80s, by her experience, and by her personality. Ellis can't match it, because he hasn't lived her life. And that's what makes Postcards from the Edge special: it is a book that was written by the only person who could write it. That is, it is unique. And, frankly, that's more than can be said for many books published these days.	2002-08-29
1426462:US	53084041	RZ5Z7A2NMJFPN	044990671X	578125856	Bronze Mirror	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Mirrors within Mirrors	Jeanne Larsen's Bronze Mirror is the story of Pomegranate, new maid to the Su household, brought (and bought) from her family to minister to Lady Phoenix, new wife to the head of the household. Bronze Mirror is also the story of a competition between members of the godhead -- a competition caused by a tiff between The Yellow Emperor and his wife, the Silkweb Empress. There's also the bodhisattva, who warns of the karmic debt created by the story-tellers. There's Reedflute and his master/lover Inkstone, the young goddess- in-waiting Spinner, and the double-pupiled inventor of the Chinese written language Tsang-jieh. Then there's the river dragon, the lord of the hill, the ten lords of hell, the wrong Redgold, the womanizing Second Master, the Horsehead Woman...hey, a larger cast of characters and plots within plots is rarely seen outside of daytime television!<br /> In my drive to become an expert on little-known American literature based on Chinese myth, legend and history (specialization is the key, as they told us in college), this is the third book that I've recently read in the field. (The other recent additions that I read were Mark Salzman's The Laughing Sutra and Barry Hughart's Eight Skilled Gentlemen.) Talk about three dissimilar books! Hughart's novels are fantasy/mystery, proudly published as genre books -- why, Bridge of Birds even won a genre award. The Laughing Sutra was on semi-proud display at The Strand (New York's largest used bookstore) in the &quot;Reviewer's Copies&quot; section, that purgatory created for books sufficiently unknown to the columnists for New York's fashionable review mags, a judgment roundly carried out across the nation. And Bronze Mirror -- I can't say for sure, but if I were one to judge a book by its cover, I'd say Larsen is a card-carrying member of the literati.<br /> Which isn't to say her book isn't just as good as the others, but it does carry some unnecessary baggage with it. One of the nicest things about The Laughing Sutra was the total absence of the writer; Salzman, although quite engaging in person, kept his ego free of his wordsmithing. Hughart uses the framing device of Number Ten Ox narrating the stories which we read as his memoirs. But Larsen is as much a character in Bronze Mirror as Pomegranate, The Yellow Emperor, Spinner, Lady Phoenix, or the mirror of the title itself.<br /> Larsen (a professor of creative writing and English at Hollins College, Roanoke, Virginia -- and what a dead give- a-way that is, eh?) knows her stuff. Bronze Mirror is almost a history of writing styles. She ranges from the episodic Pomegranate's Story to an encyclopedic treatise on tea in China, from the fairy tale to the seriocomic tragedy. And, before it's all done, she's passed you into the postmodernist era, commenting on the book from within the book. Her talent is obvious, and maybe that's my problem with Bronze Mirror -- I couldn't escape from the realization that I was reading a book, rather than reading or hearing a story. Larsen's previous novel was Silk Road, and the next time I feel a little intro- spective, maybe I'll pick it up.<br /> So, all-in-all, thumbs up at a forty-five degree angle on this one. If you've finished Salzman's book, and you need another China fix, this may be your cup of (not Earl Grey, but Misty Summit) tea.Sutra was the total absence of the writer; Salzman, although quite engaging in person, kept his ego free of his wordsmithing. Hughart uses the framing device of Number Ten Ox narrating the stories which we read as his memoirs. But Larsen is as much a character in Bronze Mirror as Pomegranate, The Yellow Emperor, Spinner, Lady Phoenix, or the mirror of the title itself.<br /> Larsen (a professor of creative writing and English at Hollins College, Roanoke, Virginia -- and what a dead give- a-way that is, eh?) knows her stuff. Bronze Mirror is almost a history of writing styles. She ranges from the episodic Pomegranate's Story to an encyclopedic treatise on tea in China, from the fairy tale to the seriocomic tragedy. And, before it's all done, she's passed you into the postmodernist era, commenting on the book from within the book. Her talent is obvious, and maybe that's my problem with Bronze Mirror -- I couldn't escape from the realization that I was reading a book, rather than reading or hearing a story. Larsen's previous novel was Silk Road, and the next time I feel a little intro- spective, maybe I'll pick it up.<br /> So, all-in-all, thumbs up at a forty-five degree angle on this one. If you've finished Salzman's book, and you need another China fix, this may be your cup of (not Earl Grey, but Misty Summit) tea.	2002-08-28
1426860:US	53084041	R7C8JZIVH6IBJ	0385418027	858496456	Full Spectrum 3	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A nice variety	Highlights include:<br />  * James Morrow's \\"Daughter Earth\\" -- I'm not a big fan of Morrow's short stories, and I've not read his novels, but this story astonished me with its audacity. Not just anyone could pull this off--I'm not even sure that Morrow does--but just the fact that he tried gives him brownie points in my book. A biosphere is born to a new age-farmer couple, and they try to keep it out of the hands of the government. Life-affirming and planet-affirming.<br />  * Mark L. Van Name and Pat Murphy's \\"Desert Rain\\" -- Pat told us (in the NOVA Express interview) that she was writing this story with Mark, but she didn't say it was gonna be this good. An artist's construction of rain in the desert is hampered by her feelings for her husband and the home software he's creating. This is what Jonathan Carroll would write if he wrote science fiction.<br />  * Kristine Kathryn Rusch's \\"Precious Moments\\" -- Kind of an \\"Odd Joan\\" story, filled with this author's nouveau family angst and some really intriguing characters.<br />  * Peg Kerr's \\"Lethe\\"--This is a tale about medical and cultural responsibility for dying. It reminded me of the empathy of Theodore Sturgeon, and this story should be considered for the award that bears his name. I'm keeping my eye out for Kerr stories in the future.<br />  * Marcos Donnelly's \\"Tracing the Random Variable\\" -- A Twilight Zone-ish tale of a man obsessed with stability, that only serves to increase his instability.<br />  * Norman Spinrad's \\"The Helping Hand\\" -- It may be a little saccharine tasting, but who'd have thought that Spinrad would write a little piece of wish-fulfillment fantasy like this? I couldn't help myself; I like it.<br />  * Elizabeth Hand's \\"Snow on Sugar Mountain\\" - I was predisposed not to like this story by Hand, based on having read some wrong-headed critical pieces by her in the past, but she overcame all that, and this tale of an orphan, a dying astronaut, and their friendship was probably my third favorite story in this collection.<br />And that's not to mention the contributions by Tony Daniel, Greg Benford, Ursula K. Le Guin, Wolfgang Jeschke, Karen Joy Fowler, R.V. Branham, or Michael Bishop, which I also liked.my third favorite story in this collection.<br />And that's not to mention the contributions by Tony Daniel, Greg Benford, Ursula K. Le Guin, Wolfgang Jeschke, Karen Joy Fowler, R.V. Branham, or Michael Bishop, which I also liked.	2002-08-28
1426905:US	53084041	R1STEQ4BPGLG38	0312890087	416503371	Count Geiger's Blues: A Comedy	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Bishop deconstructs deconstruction	This one jumped off the shelf and into my hands. I'm a Bishop fan from years back--having read and loved books like Ancient of Days, No Enemy But Time, The Secret Ascension (aka Philip K. Dick is Dead, Alas), and Unicorn Mountain--and I hadn't even known that he had a new book coming out.<br />Not only that, but a book that really piqued my interest. Bishop's doing his own version of Watchmen here--what if a \\"superhero\\" really existed in our world. But the operative word on the title page is that this is a comedy. For all his realism, Bishop is actually writing in the tradition of James Branch Cabell and Thorne Smith, warping our reality to actually satirize it.<br />It has confirmed my expectations. Xavier Thaxton is the Fine Arts editor at the local newspaper--a man who hates popular culture. But slowly he finds that popular culture is what he needs, and what he is becoming. The conclusion is a statement about \\"art,\\" that most nebulous of terms.	2002-08-28
1426920:US	53084041	R3PHCYMOTC5RZP	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The more serious side of Connie Willis	I still haven't read Greeley's SF claim to fame's first solo novel, Lincoln's Dreams, but based on the quality of her short stories, and this, her second novel, I'm not upset at all that I sprung for a hardback copy of it.<br /> Which is a funny way to start a review, but sort of expresses the inexpressable delight that I enjoyed whilst reading Doomsday Book. Frankly, Willis is one of the finest writers I've ever read, in or out of the SF genre. However, I feel that her short work stands up better than her novels, and the novels ain't shabby.<br /> What's Doomsday Book about? Kivrin, an eager young historian from 2045 gets the chance of a lifetime to &quot;visit&quot; (that is, time travel) to the Middle-Ages and make first-hand observations. However, the transition doesn't go quite as planned because as soon as Kivrin is sent, the technician in 2045 falls down with a mysterious influenza like disease. Kivrin's mentor in 2045 is suddenly caught in a Seriocomedy of Errors as he tries to have her recalled, while also dealing with a quarantine in his own age. Kivrin, meanwhile, is finding out the hard way that everything her mentor said about the Middle-Ages is true. And she's also finding out that she may not be in exactly the time frame that she originally thought she was.<br /> And that's the basic plot without spoilers. The story is told through two protagonists, Kivrin's story in the middle-ages, and her mentor's story in 2045. The point of view is also a very tight third-person subjunctive, which at times can seem repetitive, but is extremely well done.<br /> Worth it? Definately.	2002-08-28
1426943:US	53084041	R7ZS940EZDOI1	0679721746	462852429	The Commitments	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Committed	The Committments is a novel of dialogue--or, more accurately, dialect. It tells of the formation of Dublin Soul. Soul music in Ireland? Well, the theory is that the Irish are the \\"[outcasts]\\" of Europe, and the Dubliners are the \\"[outcasts]\\" of Ireland, and the North Siders are the...you get the point. Rescuing a couple of mates from the horrors of playing Depeche Mode, Jimmy Rabitte puts together The Committments by placing an ad in the paper reading: \\"Have you got Soul? If yes, the World's Hardest Working Band is looking for you.\\"<br /> Jimmy, the manager, has got a good head on his shoulders. He knows the music business (having eaten Melody Maker and NME for breakfast every day), so his question for potential band members is simple: What are your influences? He gets a drummer who idolizes Animal of the Muppets, a saxophonist who says Clarence Clemons and the guy from Madness, and trumpet player Joey \\"The Lips\\" Fagen, who proves to be the superglue for the group. Joey \\"The Lips\\" has played with everybody who was anybody, talks like a southern evangelicist, and, man, can he play that horn. And, because soul music is the music of \\"ridin'\\" (read: sex), Jimmy finds The Committmentettes, to provide the visual component as well as backup and lead on songs by the Motown girl groups. Add a piano player, change some lyrics to fit the politics of Ireland, and you have achieved Dublin Soul.<br /> The Beatles were four poor sods from Liverpool, and they only managed to stay together for 9 years. How long are nine desperate for attention Dubliners going to stay together? Ah, there's the rub.<br /> There is true humor in this book, humor that speaks to you if you ever played in a band or follow rock music. There's also enough situational humor to cross over for those who don't necessarily go for this type of book. And there's a moral/point/call-it-what-you-will, as well.	2002-08-28
1427250:US	53084041	RSMH68EVIXRB1	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Zen-like wisdom	a book of vignettes from Salzman's experience as a foreigner in China. Sent to teach English to medical students, Salzman soon discovers that he is as much student as teacher. The cultural differences are portrayed without the slightest degree of bias, either pro- or anti-Western. These shorts are almost Zen, neither explained nor explainable, just there. If one can comprehend the situation, or the motivations of all participants, then they make sense--otherwise, they remain hidden, waiting for the reader to achieve the knowledge necessary for enlightenment. But the stories are always entertaining.	2002-08-28
1427251:US	53084041	RXG7Q1UE8IB9P	0679735461	532524563	The Laughing Sutra	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Who's the stranger, and where's the strange land?	The Laughing Sutra, although fiction, is the perfect counterpoint to Iron &amp; Silk. Salzman is the main figure in Iron &amp; Silk, showing the cultural differences between the American and Chinese through his viewpoint. In The Laughing Sutra, he is able to turn the tables and present these differences from the viewpoints of a modern Chinese and an ancient Chinese (Salzman's language speciality was classical Chinese, which is to modern Mandarin what Latin is to Italian). The story line may be a quest, but it is a quest under a different sort of rules than American fantasy. Here, the quest is one of duty, one of loyalty. Here, the heroes are brave yet unsure, truly innocents abroad. The immortal Monkey King is the only 'fantastic' thing about the book, but the viewpoints are so much more different than our own that the entire world seems strange, even when they reach San Francisco.<br /> I once recommended Tim Powers' On Stranger Tides and A.A. Attanasio's Wyvern for being two sides of the same coin. In these novels of piracy on the Carribbean, Powers had taken real history and grafted on fantasy elements, while Attanasio had taken fantasy and made it seem real. And so are Barry Hughart and Mark Salzman fellows of a coin too. Hughart takes folklore that is alien to us and explains it to us in terms we can understand, while Salzman (in The Laughing Sutra) has taken a portion of reality, and used it to make our world seem alien.<br /> In science fiction, we make much ado about our aliens, but I think Salzman knows the real story: we are our own best aliens.	2002-08-28
1429765:US	53084041	R11T7Z0T0IPJRL	0553580698	541748362	One of Us	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A weird mixture of genres and styles	The spine of this book labels it as \\"suspense,\\" and it certainly does share some aspects of that genre. It is also, however, a science fiction, mystery, fantasy, speculative religious thriller. This is both the joy of the book, and its curse. The joy is simply reading it for the excitement of not knowing what Smith is going to throw at you next. The curse is wanting it to coalesce into something besides the ephemeral pleasure of a roller coaster ride, and being disappointed when the coaster car simply comes gliding back into the station.<br />Hap Thompson is a petty con man who has fallen into the less-than-savory business of being a dream-washer and memory-holder. This would have likely been fine, except for his character flaw of being able to turn down wads of cash hovered virtually in front of him. He agrees to do a side memory job for a client so as to see all of the cash rather than just the skimmed bit given to him by his employer, REMtemps, and instead finds himself holding onto the memory of the murder, and if he doesn't get rid of it soon, LAPD will be on him. It doesn't matter that he didn't commit the murder--just having the memory is enough to set him up for life.<br />Smith hovers between writing like Raymond Chandler and William Gibson, and the result isn't as unpleasant as that match might seem (in fact, I've long thought Gibson's style of cyberpunk fit the early noir of Chandler, and only needed the psychological edge of James M. Cain to really perfect it). The book breaks down towards the end, however, when Smith starts trying to channel either Benny Hinn or Joseph Campbell. This is similar to the macguffin in Neal Stephenson's work, where he actually tries to make sense of all the fun and all it sounds like is pseudo-scientific claptrap.<br />Smith's an interesting enough writer to watch, however, and there are a number of science fiction/mystery novels that don't even come close to being as engrossing as One of Us. You could do much worse for pleasure reading, and there's not much better being published today.sure reading, and there's not much better being published today.	2002-08-25
1430167:US	53084041	R1VB4UMO7EEEDD	0380755742	597661417	Voyage to the Red Planet	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What if the first spaceflight to Mars was done by Hollywood?	Look at NASA...please! If there isn't a more frightening indication of the impact of space on today's culture, I'll become a monk in space. Can you even see NASA from where you are, or is it hidden behind the lifestyles, the crime reports, the utter banality of \\"human interest\\" stories in the news? When you do hear about NASA it is either because they are requesting more money, having their budget cut by Congress, or they've delayed the shuttle launch yet again. Is today's apathy with space caused by NASA's incompentence, or vice versa? Either way, the future looks grim.<br /> Grim tidings bring modest proposals. Bisson's proposal in Voyage to the Red Planet may be hidden by a standard SF adventure plot, but it is as cutting as Swift's ever was. When the government has to sell off various departments (like NASA) to corporations to pay back the national debt, when movie stars become a new royalty, that's where you'll find Bisson, pillorying the temples with a humor and irreverence that's a joy to read. In every chapter Bisson drops a casual remark that seems innocuous at first, but sits like a dormant virus until you immune system yells \\"Uncle\\" and then unleashes its full fury making you double- and triple-up in laughter.<br /> The plot and writing reminded me of late 60s/early 70s Philip K. Dick, except jazzed up and in tune with the 90s. Like Dick's novels, even though Voyage to the Red Planet is set in the future, its topic is the present. Today, Bisson says, we are in danger from greedy corporations threatening to gobble up each other in a gigantic Ouroboros-orgy, we are in danger of creating a new aristocracy with its own rules and classes, we are in danger of losing our perspective on what is important and what isn't. What Bisson isn't saying, though, is that the future or the present is filled with doom. If we can doctor ourselves with a little humor and stop taking everything so damned seriously, perhaps there will be some hope for us all.	2002-08-25
1430253:US	53084041	R12HBCGGY0D50O	0929480120	866555511	By Bizarre Hands: Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	N	It's the voice of the back woods that scares you	Lansdale's world is filled with razors, bad boys, drive-ins, pain, unfulfilled desires, injustice, bigotry, preachers. But most of all, it's filled with energy and truth. By Bizarre Hands is Joe's first collection, but rest assured that it won't be the last; talented and prolific are two more words synonymous with Lansdale. Worth the price of the collection alone is the Stoker award-winning story, \\"Night They Missed the Horror Show,\\" to my mind the best horror story in the last ten years, no small recommendation. But also herein are the genesis stories for Lansdale's novels The Nightrunners (\\"Boys Will Be Boys\\") and The Magic Wagon (\\"The Windstorm Passes\\"), as well as collecting obscure Lansdale classics such as \\"Tight Little Stitches in a Dead Man's Back\\" (from Masques) and \\"I Tell You It's Love\\" (from Modern Stories #1, a one-shot magazine edited by Lewis and Edith Shiner).<br /> Two stories are new to this volume: \\"The Steel Valentine\\" and \\"The Fat Man and the Elephant.\\" The former is a relative of Stephen King's story, \\"The Ledge,\\" a battle between two men, one ruthless and cruel and the other learning how to be. An interesting variation on the theme, yet not as original as I had come to expect from Lansdale. On the other hand, \\"The Fat Man and the Elephant\\" is something that could only have been written by Joe. A curious mix of metaphysics and good ol' fashion religion, with a little zen on the side, the story centers on Sonny, a Baptist minister, who \\"communes\\" with a sideshow elephant.<br /> What makes Lansdale different from the hordes of horror writers flooding the market today? It's his sense of place. Joe grew up in the backwoods of East Texas, and almost all of his stories are set there. Trapped underneath the evergreens, there lurks a different sort of horror, one that Joe escaped from and is telling you about now: small town Texas. The people are more alien than you might imagine, the settings more bizarre, but in Lansdale's stories, they come alive before your eyes to reveal these differences. And the reason Lansdale's stories work? Because by the time you understand the differences, you have also discovered the similarities within your own back yard.<br /> By Bizarre Hands is only available in a hardcover edition from Mark Ziesing, who is also publishing hardcover editions of Lansdale's recent paperback thrillers Cold in July and Savage Season. No other small publisher (well, maybe Ursus Imprints, Arkham House, and Scream/Press--see below) puts as much quality into the production as Ziesing and all three of these books are as beautiful as the work is talented. Highly recommended.fore your eyes to reveal these differences. And the reason Lansdale's stories work? Because by the time you understand the differences, you have also discovered the similarities within your own back yard.<br /> By Bizarre Hands is only available in a hardcover edition from Mark Ziesing, who is also publishing hardcover editions of Lansdale's recent paperback thrillers Cold in July and Savage Season. No other small publisher (well, maybe Ursus Imprints, Arkham House, and Scream/Press--see below) puts as much quality into the production as Ziesing and all three of these books are as beautiful as the work is talented. Highly recommended.	2002-08-25
1430357:US	53084041	R3PNVRKO9GJVH6	0312868375	519499668	Patterns	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best in mid-80s short science fiction	Another first collection, Patterns collects almost half of Pat Cadigan's short fiction from the last ten years. Cadigan writes from the dark underbelly of society, and she usually works in the impact of technology on her characters. It was this style that placed her within the Cyberpunk movement at the time. But Patterns shows that Cadigan's fiction centers more on people--it is the characters you remember from these stories, their problems, their horrors, their hopes--not ideas.<br />My favorite story here is \\"Rock On,\\" a tale of music and ownership, the trap of job and ability. Gina, a synner (synthesizer), is on the run from her normal band, Man O'War. But Gina's problem is that she only knows how to syn, and that she loves it, even if she views it as a trap. Another author would have gone on to great detail about living synthesizers, yet Cadigan's focus is on Gina and her addiction/loathe for the job that she does so well. \\"Rock On\\" goes beyond any future punk posturings; instead, it is a metaphor for the last decades--caught in our good intentions, we are slaves to our livelihoods. (Cadigan's novel Synners is an expansion of this story.)<br />Then there's Martha, a businesswoman on her first trip to New Orleans in \\"It Was the Heat.\\" Caught between being just one of the guys and herself, Martha's carefully created working mother persona melts under the hot sun, and she discovers that control is a delicate thing. And China in \\"My Brother's Keeper,\\" the big sister from college who receives a goodbye postcard from younger brother Joe, the heroin user. She rushes back to save him, but finds that she needs to save herself.<br />As indicated above, Cadigan gives us the much needed female perspective in science fiction, and her style is such that it doesn't alienate male readers. If only more male writers could do the same for their female readers, science fiction could become the exciting prospect that was the hope of the cyberpunks. Until then, we should thank god that Cadigan is around to show what life, and literature, could be like. This collection is only recently available as a paperback (before it could only be had in an expensive small press edition); buy it now before it is out of print again.at Cadigan is around to show what life, and literature, could be like. This collection is only recently available as a paperback (before it could only be had in an expensive small press edition); buy it now before it is out of print again.	2002-08-25
1430385:US	53084041	R2D2FIKKWS9EQE	0785108998	819499861	The Complete Frank Miller Spider-Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Historically useful	Until recently, most of the hardcover reprint collections from both Marvel (the Marvel Masterworks series) and DC (the Archives series) have focused on either the \\"Golden Age\\" or the beginning of the \\"Silver Age\\" of comics publishing. The success of both the X-Men and Spider-Man movies, and the increasing market for graphic novels in traditional bookstores (rather than just the direct-to-market specialty stores) has both of the large publishers looking to see what they can repackage and gain some \\"found\\" money (i.e., don't have to pay for production, just publish and rake in the dough).<br />I'd decry such simple-minded money-grubbing except that along the way the art department of both companies must have gotten involved, because some of the most recent repacks have been providing comics scholars like myself some much-needed works that were previously only available to a few people (e.g., the Spirit archives) or forgotten by many, such as this collection of Frank Miller's earliest comics work. Sure, Marvel is pushing this not only on Miller's name (and the furor over his Dark Knight Returns 2) but also because it's Spider-Man, for gosh sakes. But if you want to see where Miller's style (both writing and artistic) evolved from, this is the book.<br />I remember owning a couple of these comics in their original form, but never connected them with Miller, whom I later admired for Ronin and his work on Daredevil and Batman. If anything, the stories here are the weak points, because they typically come from stand-alone \\"annuals\\" or team-up books, where Marvel often had a revolving door policy for writers and artists. The two best comics here are those that reveal Miller's work with cross-hatching (Spider-Man Annual #14) and the unique panel arrangements and interest in Eastern themes (Marvel Team-Up #100).<br />I'm not sure this is worth [the price], for the originals don't have the complex color separations that benefit from this nice paper. But as an archive resource, and for Miller fans, it's easier than hunting down the originals in dusty bins.and for Miller fans, it's easier than hunting down the originals in dusty bins.	2002-08-25
1433261:US	53084041	RCPQ2W53EADKO	0441790976	135813149	The Stress of Her Regard	Books	3	58	65	N	N	A spiralling descent into the insanity of creative genius	If you have yet to discover Powers, what a treat awaits you! For those of you who have read his earlier work, such as The Anubis Gates and On Stranger Tides, I know I'll be preaching to the converted when I say that Powers is one of the most exciting authors writing fantasy today. He is one of the progenitors of the \\"gonzo\\" fantasy, a style in which the author uses actual history for the majority of the plot, but inserts fantastic elements that explain actions left mysterious by time and which will provide the details of the story. K.W. Jeter and James P. Blaylock, friends of Powers', have also written stories in this style, and Bruce Sterling and William Gibson are working on one called The Difference Engine. But gonzo fantasy is Powers' ballgame, and he's still batting 1.000.<br /> The Stress of Her Regard is set in the time of those three happy-go-lucky but yet melancholy poets, the Romantics. No, not the rock group, but Lord Byron, Percy Shelly, and John Keats. Powers has once again picked his time period and historical people well--there are few people as full of life and mystery as these three poets. Byron, Shelly and Keats were the original Beat writers, travelling the world and putting what they saw into their fiction and poetry long before Jack Keroauc.<br /> The main character isn't a poet, though, but a doctor named Michael Crawford. Having already suffered the death of his first wife and his younger brother, the book opens with Crawford's marriage to his second wife and her brutal death beside him in bed on their first night as man and wife. Blamed for his wife's death, and laboring under the absence of his own memory of that night, Crawford flees into hiding. But Crawford is hunted, not only with guilt for the deaths of those close to him, but also by strangely erotic dreams, and hounded by the sister of his second wife. His escape from both of these are interlocked with the poetry and lives of the Romantics. You mention fantasy to some people, and they have a hard time not relating it with Tolkien or Dungeons & Dragons. Powers' fiction isn't one style alone. The Stress of Her Regard is a perfect example of this. Not only does it predispose some knowledge of the work of the three poets, but it also has horrific undertones that threaten to explode into the forefront a la Stephen King.<br /> Powers' previous novels have also played fast and loose with historical characters, but those characters have always remained in the background, as if Powers was wary that the \\"real\\" characters would destroy the fabric of his half-real fantasy world. In The Stress of Her Regard, though, Powers bravely tackles using the historical characters to become major forces of the storyline. In fact, the intriguing ambiguous yet always exciting Byron steals the book from Crawford, who seems to be a rudderless boat on a swift moving river. And although Byron falls victim to the lamias, his struggle and fall are the stuff that climaxes are built of, rather than Crawford's selfless struggle to rescue his wife's sister.<br /> Not as pyrotechnic as The Anubis Gates, nor as perverse as Dinner at Deviant's Palace, nor as playful as On Stranger Tides, what distinguishes The Stress of Her Regard is the consistent tone of the novel--a spiralling descent into the insanity of creative genius, and the redemption of love.have a hard time not relating it with Tolkien or Dungeons & Dragons. Powers' fiction isn't one style alone. The Stress of Her Regard is a perfect example of this. Not only does it predispose some knowledge of the work of the three poets, but it also has horrific undertones that threaten to explode into the forefront a la Stephen King.<br /> Powers' previous novels have also played fast and loose with historical characters, but those characters have always remained in the background, as if Powers was wary that the \\"real\\" characters would destroy the fabric of his half-real fantasy world. In The Stress of Her Regard, though, Powers bravely tackles using the historical characters to become major forces of the storyline. In fact, the intriguing ambiguous yet always exciting Byron steals the book from Crawford, who seems to be a rudderless boat on a swift moving river. And although Byron falls victim to the lamias, his struggle and fall are the stuff that climaxes are built of, rather than Crawford's selfless struggle to rescue his wife's sister.<br /> Not as pyrotechnic as The Anubis Gates, nor as perverse as Dinner at Deviant's Palace, nor as playful as On Stranger Tides, what distinguishes The Stress of Her Regard is the consistent tone of the novel--a spiralling descent into the insanity of creative genius, and the redemption of love.	2002-08-22
1433468:US	53084041	R2I5O9K88778UJ	0929480015	206522516	A Dozen Tough Jobs	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Stellar mix of modern and classical	Translate the twelve labors of Hercules into the cultural climate of Northern Mississippi in the 1920s, and while you're there make some true insights into human society of any time--why, only Howard Waldrop would attempt such a thing, and only Waldrop could have the panache to pull it off. A Dozen Tough Jobs should have been written 200 years ago so that it could have received the treatment it deserves: that being carved into stone. Waldrop proves that less is more, by condensing magic, bigotry, love, checkers, guitars, romance, and everything else that makes life...well, life, into a novella that is easily read in one night.<br /> I.O. Lace is a young black boy who works for Boss Eustis. Well, work is hardly right. Work for blacks in Mississippi at the time was only a step removed from slavery, and Boss Eustis is a man to be feared. Joining I.O. in his life-once-removed-from-slavery is a man who is a slave: a convict named Houlka Lee, remanded into Boss Eustis' service for one year.<br /> This novella is both subtle and not at the same time. For those unfamiliar with the Greek myths and classics that this is based on, the novella is an interesting view into 1920s Mississippi life. But for most of us, it is filled with little treasures that would make some annotator leap up and click his heels. Waldrop works in every aspect of the Hercules myth with such ease that you wonder if he rewrote all the Bullfinch's Mythology of the world so that they fit his novella, instead of the other way around.<br /> Waldrop is a special writer, and one who deserves far more attention then he's ever gotten. Unfortunately, he is not very prolific, so when a new Waldrop story arrives, it is indeed a time of joy. A Dozen Tough Jobs is a time of ecstasy. Missing this book will only make your life sadder.	2002-08-22
1433996:US	53084041	RHQ2FQYASFEWD	080501246X	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	4	82	95	N	N	An antidote for Ayn Rand	I picked this up after meeting Charles Cameron, who invented the Hipbone Games, a variation of the Glass Bead Game as described in this novel. Charles was so wildly enthusiastic about it--and I was so intrigued and delighted with his game--that I immediately visited the university library the day after chatting with him and began reading the life story of Joseph Knect, the Master of the Glass Bead Game. As I fell deeper and deeper down Hesse's rabbit hole, I found myself asking people if they knew that this novel, which basically won Hesse the Nobel Prize in Literature, was science fiction? How come this isn't mentioned in genre studies, if not with the pulp masters, at least among those literary books that strayed into far shores like George Orwell's 1984 and Animal Farm or Aldous Huxley's Brave New World?<br />Set in the far future, where today's emphasis on entertainment is termed the Age of the Feuilleton, The Glass Bead Game describes a world that has once again settled down from the conflicts between humans in a new Golden Age, but one wherein a new caste has been created. Not a religious order, although their devotion to their ideals resembles religion, this new group is based on education, one of their duties being to train all the teachers in this country. To be accepted into the group one must be educated in their elite schools, for only the brightest and the best and--this is important-- the orphans are accepted into Castalia. Why orphans? Because family ties are the bonds that weaken the link to the Castalian society. The crowning achievement of all Castalia is not the elite schools and their pupils, but the game--a systematic method of linking math and music and history and art and, well, anything, into a perfect &quot;whole.&quot; Everyone admires the game, and the master of it, the Magister Ludi, is the pivot point for the players, and thus, Castalian society. The book, once it gives you this background, then describes the path of Joseph Knecht from elite student all the way to the seat of the Magister, and then, surprisingly, back to student.<br />Okay, I'm sure that had I stumbled upon this book when younger that I would not have finished it. Unlike pulp SF, the purpose of The Glass Bead Game is philosophical, not adventure. While you can read it for plot (and the &quot;Three Lives&quot; appendices provide plenty of that, in three different &quot;fantasy&quot; settings), the idea of perfection and what does it meant to be human are the real characters here, and the physical creatures described are just pawns in this literary gameplay. A few times I found myself rushing through the interminable equivocation, but for the most part my imagination was captivated. Seems to me that this might be the antidote for some of Ayn Rand's sins.lite student all the way to the seat of the Magister, and then, surprisingly, back to student.<br />Okay, I'm sure that had I stumbled upon this book when younger that I would not have finished it. Unlike pulp SF, the purpose of The Glass Bead Game is philosophical, not adventure. While you can read it for plot (and the &quot;Three Lives&quot; appendices provide plenty of that, in three different &quot;fantasy&quot; settings), the idea of perfection and what does it meant to be human are the real characters here, and the physical creatures described are just pawns in this literary gameplay. A few times I found myself rushing through the interminable equivocation, but for the most part my imagination was captivated. Seems to me that this might be the antidote for some of Ayn Rand's sins.	2002-08-21
1434099:US	53084041	R1VWGUB3LPBX28	0385476337	203368671	Crossing the Mangrove	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Differing points of view	The last book assigned in my African-American Women's Literature course actually goes a little off the coast to look at a Guadalopean writer who now makes her home in the U.S. but writes about her island birthplace in her native French and Creole. This novel is her most recent, a study it seems of a community on the island and the changes brought about by an outsider.<br />The outsider, Frances Sancher, dies in Chapter One, and most readers will likely expect a mystery here, in which an explanation for his death is revealed in the end. And it is true enough that Frances is a mysterious character, especially as seen through the many different eyes of the community, but Conde is not writing a detective story--or, at least, not a traditional one. Even though Frances seems to be a catalyst for change in the community, he is not the center of the novel, even though his physical body in its casket serves as the candle to which the moths are drawn. Like the candle, Frances' life and death illuminates the other characters, sometimes singeing one or two, but when the candle burns out, the moths are free to move on and return to what they were doing before the candle arrived.<br />I really liked the structure of this novel, as each chapter is told from a new point of view (nearly 20 different in all). I realize that this is nothing new--William Faulkner's As I Lay Dying and other novels have used a similar scheme--but this was the first time I had run into it.<br />But I'm just not sure the novel works for me in the end, unless Conde's purpose was to portray Guadalopean society as fractured and diverse. This definitely comes through, but works against the Western tradition of cohesiveness in the novel. The ending here is not Aristotelian; instead, it implies a multitude of beginnings.  It's not that I feel I have to have all the threads tied up by the end of a novel, but I would like to get some sense of completion, some sense that there was a reason why the author selected these moments in time as compared to some other.  Novels are about narrative, not simply description.hese moments in time as compared to some other.  Novels are about narrative, not simply description.	2002-08-21
1434164:US	53084041	RMTSY4L98BC5F	0446601977	383179538	Parable of the Sower	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Post-apocalyptic religion creation stories	I read this as part of reading Butler's entire oeuvre in preparation for an essay that I was writing about a common theme in her work. With some authors such a task would be daunting, either because of the volume of writing or the disparate nature of their output. So far, as I can tell, Butler's limited publications fall into four distinct groups: her early novels in the Patternist series; Kindred, a standalone novel of time travel and slavery; the Xenogenesis trilogy; and the current group of books, likely to go by the heading of Earthseed. The new novel, Parable of the Talents, is the second in the series, which I have on my shelf to be read, but I wanted to make sure I started at the beginning.<br />In 2030 the U.S. is a nation under siege from within. Violence and new drugs have combined to make the cities war zones, where the citizens live in suburban walled enclaves and must go out in groups or well-armed to shop or work. One drug in particular, which causes the user to find fire so fascinating that he or she immediately turns to arson, wreaks total havoc. This is a post-apocalyptic society, but instead of following a nuclear war or a plague, it is an implosion of the tensions that we have in society today magnified enormously.<br />I don't care much for post-apocalypses, and it really doesn't matter if it happened because of war or drugs or plague. It is a setting that seems as if ordered from central casting. I've read it so many times that there is nothing new about it. Unfortunately, Butler does not change my opinion with this book. However, her characters and their concerns were somewhat new--especially the idea of creating a new religion that would help people live in these rough times and deal with the change, as well as her creation of a psychosomatic condition that causes empathy as a side-effect of a total cancer cure.<br />Still, it was a rough 300 pages for me, made all the more so for its obvious set-up of a longer series. Butler's writing is accomplished and her characters believable. While I was not too excited by this novel, I am interested in seeing where she goes from here, now that all the set-up is complete.mplished and her characters believable. While I was not too excited by this novel, I am interested in seeing where she goes from here, now that all the set-up is complete.	2002-08-21
1434478:US	53084041	R2VLS6BH4ZVNIX	1564781372	437089888	Complete Fiction of W. M. Spackman (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Screwballish with a bite	I first heard about this author from Rich Horton. Now that I think of it, I've only heard about this author from Rich, but the buildup that Rich gave him forced me to pick up the Dalkey Archive complete collection of his works. I'm not very familiar with the Dalkey Archive, but from what I can tell, they are a non-profit or collective determined to keep worthy literature in print in inexpensive editions, mostly trade paperback (the name of the press is from a novel by Flann O'Brien). Spackman is a Princeton man who graduated from college just before the Depression, wrote and published his first novel at the age of 45, then had to wait over twenty years before his second was accepted. That novel, An Armful of Warm Girl (what a wonderful title!), received enough critical acclaim that he published three more novels in the succeeding years.<br />Heydey is that first novel, published in 1953, printed here in a revised form that the author had not completed before his death. The setting is New York City during the Depression and the characters are Harvard grads trying to live their dreams in a world that has all but collapsed. They take solace in alcohol and sex in an endless string of late night parties and rendezvous (is that the plural of rendezvous?). Imagine a Thorne Smith novel with no supernatural elements and a Harvard education.<br />I loved it, finishing it in two reading sessions. The style is the sort of thing I try to achieve in my own fiction--a balance between exposition and dialogue that alternates between insight and wit. The structure is oblique, to be nice, but revealing once we achieve the finale. At times, you wonder what does it all mean, but then, that may be the point.<br />There are some similarities between Spackman and Anthony Powell (another favorite of Rich's), including the focus on gossip and the \\"dance\\" of a group of people who step through life, changing partners or standing by the wall spilling punch. Powell, though, is so understated that his dance seems hidden, lost in the intricacies of its creation; Spackman, while not explicit, is like the best 1940s screwball comedy, teasing the censor with a playfulness that is *sans* malice.<br />It seems fairly obvious to me that Heydey is autobiographical (again, like Anthony Powell's dance). As the advice goes, Spackman started writing by writing what he knew. I look forward to reading the rest of the novels in this collection to see if they contain the same strange combination of *joi de vivre* and world-weariness.t his dance seems hidden, lost in the intricacies of its creation; Spackman, while not explicit, is like the best 1940s screwball comedy, teasing the censor with a playfulness that is *sans* malice.<br />It seems fairly obvious to me that Heydey is autobiographical (again, like Anthony Powell's dance). As the advice goes, Spackman started writing by writing what he knew. I look forward to reading the rest of the novels in this collection to see if they contain the same strange combination of *joi de vivre* and world-weariness.	2002-08-21
1434510:US	53084041	R3D5JCO8ARR5OW	0446603708	894631241	Clay's Ark	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Change happens	The last novel in her Patternist series to be published, it shares a lot more in common with her Xenogenesis trilogy in tone and subject material. Of the Patternist novels that I have read, that group seems more oriented towards questions of power and dominance--basically, who is stronger, and what are the responsibilities of that role. The series actually begins with Wild Seed, which explains the character of Doro, who then sees a success in his human breeding program in Mind of My Mind. Clay's Ark is next in the timeline, but it only refers obliquely to the existence of a psionic pattern (late in the novel, it explains the macguffin for the faster than light drive used by the spaceship that returns to Earth), but it mainly concerns the alien organism that creates the Clayarks. The next book, Patternmaster, shows these two groups--the Patternists and the Clayarks--millennia later, both almost unrecognizable as human.<br />It is this evolution away from humanity that becomes the main theme of Xenogenesis, but it is in the forefront of Clay's Ark. The difference, however, is that this evolution is almost entirely negative here, whereas in Xenogenesis there's an ambiguity to it that makes it much more complex than just a good/bad issue. Change happens (to quote Butler's more recent work). Why is it negative here in Clay's Ark? Because of the mindlessness of the extraterrestrial interaction. As humans, thinking and feeling humans, we see ourselves as ratiocentric--that is, we value the power of logic and rational thought and discount the so-called \\"animal\\" urges of instinct and biological compulsion. This dichotomy makes up the conflict between the two groups in Patternmaster: the Patternists are pure thought, ruled by the power of the mind, whereas the Clayarks are all biological urges, roaming free, living life in the here and now. The human race has bifurcated, and although a \\"mute\\" semblance remains, humans are portrayed as beings where both mind and body are weak and dull. In Xenogenesis, Butler changes this, and the organism that is entirely mutable is portrayed as the strongest.<br />Because it contains a lot of adventure--there's kidnapping and close escapes and gunfire and more violence than a Fox Saturday night-- Clay's Ark hides a lot of this underlying thought. Only the struggle that Eli continues to endure breaks this action-orientation; the rest of the characters are driven either by the disease or their human nature to respond to the events. While not as hopeful or thoughtful as her later work, I liked this one tremendously.and dull. In Xenogenesis, Butler changes this, and the organism that is entirely mutable is portrayed as the strongest.<br />Because it contains a lot of adventure--there's kidnapping and close escapes and gunfire and more violence than a Fox Saturday night-- Clay's Ark hides a lot of this underlying thought. Only the struggle that Eli continues to endure breaks this action-orientation; the rest of the characters are driven either by the disease or their human nature to respond to the events. While not as hopeful or thoughtful as her later work, I liked this one tremendously.	2002-08-21
1434584:US	53084041	R38G8815I236N4	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	4	0	0	N	N	South(ern) America Magic Realism	A powerful book that resembles putting a puzzle together much more so than many so-called mysteries--you get a glimpse of the completed puzzle early on in the novel, as if you were peeking at the box top before dumping the pieces on the table, then you promptly forget it as you painstakingly examine each piece to try and put it in its proper place. Some pieces you have to pick up and put down again because you don't have enough of the puzzle created to understand where they go. And some pieces you just stare at endlessly, caught up in the vision of this small part of the picture that you might have ignored had you the whole thing in front of you. It is not a new way to write a novel, but Morrison's subject is aptly suited for such treatment.<br />The subject, in case you have not followed some of the literature on this critically acclaimed novel and missed the movie, is slavery and its aftermath. Morrison's goal is the reconstruction of a slave narrative through the form of a novel. While I think that Morrison succeeds in this goal, I found that the novel was not quite as affecting as it could have been, mainly because it is set in 1873 and earlier. The effect of slavery in the U.S. is still with us today and, while Morrison recreates the past, it seems all too simple to dismiss it as the sins of our grandfathers.<br />To return to the method used in the telling, which I was much more impressed by, Morrison's events benefit from the slow uncovering of the facts. Supposedly, the novel grew from a newspaper clipping that Morrison ran across (and the same, I'm guessing, that provides the climax of Part One). The clipping, as mentioned by the characters, was likely intended for the titillation and scandal of the white people who were its likely audience. By recasting the story in the manner which she does, Morrison saves it from its sensationalism and reveals it as the tragedy--for all involved--that it truly was.<br />Finally, regarding the supernatural elements, I have to agree with the critics that link this novel to the tradition of South American magical realism. Why? Basically because the characters treat the fantastic only as another part of life--rather than questioning its existence, they embrace it or deal with it. Their attitude towards it is active. I'm somewhat interested in Morrison's other work, especially something set in the present, to see if this approach to fantasy is contained therein as well.e to agree with the critics that link this novel to the tradition of South American magical realism. Why? Basically because the characters treat the fantastic only as another part of life--rather than questioning its existence, they embrace it or deal with it. Their attitude towards it is active. I'm somewhat interested in Morrison's other work, especially something set in the present, to see if this approach to fantasy is contained therein as well.	2002-08-21
1434716:US	53084041	R2GLQFIHJESQE6	1578062012	983700310	Comic Book Culture: Fanboys and True Believers (Studies in Popular Culture)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A good start for understanding	I'm using this book in my college writing course (\\"text+vision\\") this semester, and it is exactly what I wanted from a cultural overview of comic book fandom. Pustz does a great job of explaining how fandom came about, how it compares to other cultures (with a consistent reference to baseball fans, for example), and some of its peculiarities. In particular, he is able to partly explain the incestual nature of consumer and producers in comics, where each is a responsible party to the worst excesses of the medium, yet Pustz is careful to not make a judgment statement about this (unlike me).<br />This book is not a history of comics, of who published what first and which creator sued which publisher. For that, you should check out Bradford Wright's Comic Book Nation. It's not even a history of comics fandom, although it does gather quite a bit of that together in its pages (Bill Schelly covers the history of fandom in more detail). What Pustz tries to cover is the area inbetween--where fans and publishers met. This is the culture of comic books, the place where the two groups make something together, and at first it may seem strange to think of consumers as producers, or producers as consumers. But, through his analysis of comics letters pages and fanzines, Pustz shows how the two groups affected each other.<br />Comic Book Culture is copyright 1999, but feels like it was written in 1996 or 1997, mainly for the lack of focus on the incredible growth of manga in America and how Pokemon, DragonBall Z, and Sailor Moon are revitalizing comic book culture by bringing children back to comics. The last three years have also increased the importance of the Internet on the culture, which Pustz talks about briefly in the chapter 5. Finally, he really doesn't get much chance to focus on the rise of the graphic novel as an option for reading the medium compared to the ephemeral magazine.<br />As a textbook in a cultural study hybrid course, this book is perfect. For the average comic reader, it might be interesting to discover aspects of the hobby that you didn't know about. And it might just be the thing to share with parents or friends who don't understand why you keep reading Spider-Man, even though you're over 30.mic reader, it might be interesting to discover aspects of the hobby that you didn't know about. And it might just be the thing to share with parents or friends who don't understand why you keep reading Spider-Man, even though you're over 30.	2002-08-21
1440115:US	53084041	R36244A3X2KE80	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Maori magic realism	Set in New Zealand, the book concerns three characters: a 1/8th Maori woman who is independently wealthy from having won the lottery and is content to stay in a tower that she has constructed and disavow contact with the townfolk; a Maori man with a bit of a drinking problem, but a lot of family in the area; and a young mute boy, who has been adopted by the man and who adopts the woman. It's a love triangle, yes, but this is one case of very tough love (to say too much more would give it away). There are secrets and lies herein.<br />I liked this book a lot, but I'm not ecstatic about it. I think this may be because the revelations here are not new to me (although I would not characterize them as &quot;old hat&quot;). I've seen some of these surprise techniques used already in books like Iain M. Banks' The Wasp Factory and Jonathan Carroll's From the Teeth of Angels. However, for me to compare this book to those two indicates some of its appeal for me. I also thought it was overlong, taking a bit too much of a leisurely pace in its unfolding of events. The strange formatting wherein some of the character's thoughts are expressed through indented paragraphs is inconsistent, and annoyed my sense of construction.<br />Finally, I think I also would have been aided by some knowledge of Maori culture and New Zealand fauna before reading this book. In its constant use of animals and language that I was unfamiliar with, it resembled a genre work, and I was able to move through this without difficulty, but I think I would have had a more worthwhile experience had I been able to subsume more of the unknown.	2002-08-15
1440248:US	53084041	R3F21CZYPTC5L6	073820756X	821460178	The Weblog Handbook: Practical Advice On Creating And Maintaining Your Blog	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Weblogs for Dummies	If you already have a blog of your own and have been posting to it for more than a month, or if you have been reading blogs for a while, then you have no need for this book. I'm not even sure that this book is necessary to understand weblogs or the weblog community if you are anything but a novice to the Internet. But I shouldn't underestimate cluelessness, so if you feel in need of Blogs for Dummies, this is that mistitled book.<br />That might seem harsh from a guy who only started his own blog a month ago, and I truly mean no disservice to Rebecca Blood, whose earnestness is apparent in every personal anecdote. But there's no denying that this is a short, simple book--perhaps because a blog, in its basic form (a regularly updated web page where new information is arranged in reverse chronological order), is a very simple thing. The beauty of the form is in the voices of its authors, and, as Blood states herein, that often grows organically as the blog author constantly writes.<br />I read this book not so much for myself (although I had hoped to pick up something of use for my personal site) but as a possible book to hand to co-workers to help explain what blogs are and how we were experimenting with them as a business knowledge management tool. It fails for that purpose, too, unfortunately, as the concentration is on individuals doing it for themselves.	2002-08-15
1440267:US	53084041	R2FBX4OU7AE7II	0156006014	509202065	Nebula Awards 33: the Year's Best SF and Fantasy Chosen by the Science-fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (v. 33)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good summary of the year	Another collection of this long-running series that presents the award-winning fiction for the previous year. I'll comment on the individual stories:<br />Jane Yolen, &quot;Sister Emily's Lightship&quot; -- I've never been a Yolen fan. While I find her prose professional enough, I've never read anything by her that would make me jump up and rush out to force someone to read it. This story is no exception. The premise of Emily Dickinson meeting an alien is too...precious, and Yolen's sole contribution to that premise in this story is to emphasize some of the ethereal and otherworldly quality of Dickinson's poetry, and that doesn't come until the end. Yeah, she did her Dickinson research, but so what? Other than the alien, there is no reason for this story to be science fiction (see &quot;Abbess Phone Home&quot; in the Turkey City Lexicon).<br />James Patrick Kelly, &quot;Itsy Bitsy Spider&quot; -- Uses technology of the future to portray a true human characteristic.<br />Vonda McIntyre, excerpt from The Moon and the Sun -- As someone who has not read this Nebula-winning novel, the excerpt presented here does exactly what it is supposed to do--whet your appetite for more. I had no idea what the subject of the book was before I read this, now I do, and have had a taste of how it is told. I'm not going to rush out and get it, but I'm much more interested now than I was before.<br />Nancy Kress, &quot;The Flowers of Aulit Prison&quot; -- An excellent story with its basis in that most Phil Dickian question, &quot;What is reality?&quot; This is the kind of SF that I look for, where aliens help us understand, through them as a metaphor, a fundamental idea of life. That it has a plot, an unique setting, and fascinating characters makes it an award winner. I'm not giving anything away with this one, but just point you to it and say, &quot;go read.&quot;<br />Gregory Feeley, &quot;The Crab Lice&quot; -- I disliked the beginning of this story so much that I didn't even finish it. There was nothing for me to grab onto to orient myself in the story, and life is just too short.<br />Nelson Bond, &quot;The Bookshop&quot; -- A nice little classic story, where every writer's fantasy comes true, but at a price, of course. You could do a collection of these ultimate library tales (Borges comes to mind).<br />James Alan Gardner, &quot;Three Hearings on the Existence of Snakes in the Bloodstream&quot; -- A great story, with some unique twists to alternate history (so much better than the Feeley).<br />Michael Swanwick, &quot;The Dead&quot; -- An audacious story, and right up my alley. I liked it well enough, but there was something missing--I'm not sure what, maybe more of an explanation for the Donald character and his background. The anger that it stems from is good.<br />Karen Joy Fowler, &quot;The Elizabeth Complex&quot; -- This could have been as bad as the Yolen, yet it works to some extent because of its experimental nature. I wouldn't want a steady diet of these things, but once was interesting.<br />Jerry Oltion, &quot;Abandon in Place&quot; -- Wow, I liked this story a lot, even though it is so ridiculous that it is laughable. One must come at this as if reading a fairy tale--there is nothing plausible here. The science is bogus, the characters are straight wish-fulfillment from Heinlein days. But the mythology is strong, and if one has any remorse for the space program whatsoever, there's a good chance that it will tug the correct strings.<br />Poul Anderson, &quot;The Martyr&quot; -- A classic from the latest grand master, a nice little mystery about why those infuriating aliens continue to treat us differently.<br />All in all, this is a worthy volume to grab, especially if you don't want to dedicate the time to reading the Dozois' Year's Best or the magazines themselves.ish it. There was nothing for me to grab onto to orient myself in the story, and life is just too short. <br />Nelson Bond, &quot;The Bookshop&quot; -- A nice little classic story, where every writer's fantasy comes true, but at a price, of course. You could do a collection of these ultimate library tales (Borges comes to mind). <br />James Alan Gardner, &quot;Three Hearings on the Existence of Snakes in the Bloodstream&quot; -- A great story, with some unique twists to alternate history (so much better than the Feeley). <br />Michael Swanwick, &quot;The Dead&quot; -- An audacious story, and right up my alley. I liked it well enough, but there was something missing--I'm not sure what, maybe more of an explanation for the Donald character and his background. The anger that it stems from is good. <br />Karen Joy Fowler, &quot;The Elizabeth Complex&quot; -- This could have been as bad as the Yolen, yet it works to some extent because of its experimental nature. I wouldn't want a steady diet of these things, but once was interesting. <br />Jerry Oltion, &quot;Abandon in Place&quot; -- Wow, I liked this story a lot, even though it is so ridiculous that it is laughable. One must come at this as if reading a fairy tale--there is nothing plausible here. The science is bogus, the characters are straight wish-fulfillment from Heinlein days. But the mythology is strong, and if one has any remorse for the space program whatsoever, there's a good chance that it will tug the correct strings. <br />Poul Anderson, &quot;The Martyr&quot; -- A classic from the latest grand master, a nice little mystery about why those infuriating aliens continue to treat us differently. <br />All in all, this is a worthy volume to grab, especially if you don't want to dedicate the time to reading the Dozois' Year's Best or the magazines themselves.	2002-08-15
1440324:US	53084041	R1R13JDFILWBK2	0374423296	925393301	5 Novels: Alan Mendelsohn, the Boy from Mars; Slaves of Spiegel; The Snarkout Boys and the Avocado of Death; The Last Guru; Young Adult Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Unique	I was going to write that Pinkwater is not your normal young adult author and then I got to thinking--what is your normal young adult author? Lewis Carroll had his thing for photographing young girls, C.S. Lewis was a bit of a hermit, Roald Dahl played with perversity (if you think his children fiction are dark, try some of his adult stuff, which I couldn't finish). The women might be sane, for I've never heard a nasty story about Madeline L'Engle, Diana Wynne Jones, or E. Nesbit (well, she was a bit of a socialist radical). It does not matter. Pinkwater is akin to all of these in that no one else could quite copy the things that he writes.<br />This is a collection of Pinkwater novels that have been out of print for years (the original copyrights on these range from 1978 to 1982), but not out of mind. Alan Mendelsohn, in particular, seems to be well-loved and is often mentioned as a favorite of the younger set. I'm glad to finally have this opportunity to read it, for it is indeed a fun book, full of exceedingly strange twists and turns. You aren't sure if Alan is from Mars, or if he's just playing, and then you are sure, and then you aren't. It's Philip K. Dick lite, but it's fun.<br />Slaves of Spiegel and The Last Guru are much more simple (I would even think that they are meant for less mature readers than for the other three in this book), but like the best children's literature, they have something for everyone. I chuckled through Slaves of Spiegel, finding the contest quite amusing, especially the description of some of the delicacies concocted in the name of food, and I thought the satire, while obvious, in The Last Guru quite effective.<br />The Snarkout Boys resembles Alan Mendelsohn in its convoluted plot, but it seems much more grounded in reality, if a particularly eccentric reality, at least until the last quarter of the book. Its depiction of high school is stiletto sharp, but nothing as cutting as in Young Adult Novel. All the books have a jaundiced view of school, noting the common problems of cliques, moribund teachers, and the energy of youth (yes, that last is a problem--hey, you didn't think, as a teacher, that I would side totally for the kids, did you?). All of these novels were fun, and I would recommend them to your local dissident youth.ced view of school, noting the common problems of cliques, moribund teachers, and the energy of youth (yes, that last is a problem--hey, you didn't think, as a teacher, that I would side totally for the kids, did you?). All of these novels were fun, and I would recommend them to your local dissident youth.	2002-08-15
1440660:US	53084041	ROHLUZ7GM6LE0	0525937722	40639404	What They Did to Princess Paragon	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Funny, but a bit cruel	An entertaining novel that satirizes the comic book industry through a recasting of the early 1990s in which a well-regarded comic book writer/artist decides to make his mark in the new, mature field by taking a character from the golden age and remaking her as a lesbian. Like all good satire, there's an edge here--although John Bryne did do a retelling of Wonder Woman, I don't think he has remade her sexual orientation, but one quick look at the field and the various changes that have been made and it does not seem that it would be too much of a stretch. Batman is a ruthless vigilante, Superman's been dead, Spiderman has an alien costume...it's enough to make any fan think that the field has no sacred cows.<br />Rodi picks up this idea and uses it effectively, if a little heavy handed and without a measure of sympathy in some cases. Everything works out in the end (this is a comedy, after all, and it wouldn't do to have anyone really hurt), along the way there's enough pain to make you think that Rodi's been watching too much Seinfeld and not reading enough P.G. Wodehouse. Actually, I probably should compare Rodi to Joe Keenan, because he shares Keenan's sexual preference and is also writing humorous novels. Keenan's fare is meringue pie--light and fluffy and leaving you wanting for more; Rodi's dessert has a bitterness to it, as if it may have stayed in the oven a little too long.<br />Picking on the unwashed masses of comicdom may be a little like shooting fish in a barrel, and Rodi's talent at poking things with a sharp stick should probably be utilized where something is bloated out of proportion with its importance. Too much of this novel is the same stereotypes that we know have a basis in reality, but are not quite what they seem. The one redeeming factor to Rodi's cruelty to his comic fanboy is that he doesn't restrain himself from a jab or two at his gay protagonist (although mainly through the Broadway schtik of his lover).	2002-08-15
1440946:US	53084041	RD4YXT5IKGLBX	0140296085	506295607	Blackadder: The Whole Damn Dynasty, 1485-1917	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Damn Funny, Too	I stumbled upon the Black Adder comedy series one night in the 1980s while channel surfing. Something was weird, I thought--there's this sniveling coward, and this even more sniveling sycophant, and then the dogsbody who has dung all over him. Looks interesting. And as I watched, I found it extremely funny, as well. It required a knowledge of history (or Shakespeare, as you see fit), yet wasn't afraid to do the occasional fart joke. Puerile, yet intelligent. That described me at the time as well.<br />The successive series (Blackadder II, Blackadder the Third, and Blackadder Goes Forth) shifted over into the more intelligent realm (with the third series being the most so), although the running jokes about Baldrick (the dogsbody) being little better than the dung he came from remained. Blackadder II, set in the court of the virgin queen, starred Miranda Richardson, who was perfect in her cruelty towards the hapless Blackadder. The third series had Hugh Laurie as the Prince Regent, a befuddled German idiot who is being taken advantage of by Blackadder, the butler (think of a dark Wooster/Jeeves match, where the Jeeves character retains his aplomb but becomes extra greedy). I never got to see the fourth series on television, so my experience with it is through this book alone.<br />And what a great book it is. Published to benefit Comic Relief, the organization trying to aid the poor and destitute in England and Africa, it contains the scripts to each episode of the four series with faux historical documents and a running summary of the line of Blackadder. For an American, the scripts are almost a necessity to catch some of the more obscure language used in the series--especially the curses. The endpapers have color pictures of the main characters in each series, and there are some black and white stills with humorous captions included within the pages.<br />To say that Black Adder is my favorite TV show is true. I liked the 1970s American sitcom, SOAP, as well, but from its hilarious beginnings, it tapered off into pure silliness (as most American shows tend to do). The nice thing about the Blackadder series is the way that the British limit themselves to sets of shows, rather than endlessly milking the cash cow. Yes, I would like to see a fifth Black Adder (I've seen the Christmas Carol, which was wonderful), but only if it can be of the same quality as these. If not, let's not ruin a good thing, shall we?from its hilarious beginnings, it tapered off into pure silliness (as most American shows tend to do). The nice thing about the Blackadder series is the way that the British limit themselves to sets of shows, rather than endlessly milking the cash cow. Yes, I would like to see a fifth Black Adder (I've seen the Christmas Carol, which was wonderful), but only if it can be of the same quality as these. If not, let's not ruin a good thing, shall we?	2002-08-15
1454087:US	53084041	RQLWSQIH6YO55	0961472812	400064626	Comics & Sequential Art	Books	3	35	41	N	N	More for the professional than the lay person	This is something of Will Eisner's lifework, the non-fiction complement to his wonderful work from the 1950s onward with _The Spirit_ through _A Contract with God_. Herein, Eisner describes the means by which his stories work, what makes them flow and live. Before Scott McCloud's _Understanding Comics_, Eisner was the standard bearer for the explanation of how comics achieved their effect. But this book never got the acclaim that McCloud's did, for it is not necessarily directed at the public, but at the would-be comics professional. In fact, most of the book is a reworking of Eisner's lecture notes from his teaching time at New York's School of Visual Art. The general public can still glean some great information about the medium from this book, but McCloud has supplanted Eisner as the popular textbook for courses on comics.	2002-08-02
1454533:US	53084041	R3RZA10W6YTHPO	0679423052	359278790	The Rainbow (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	1	19	28	N	N	Couldn't get into this	It is a rare book indeed that I can't make it through. There are some books that I start and put down, but mostly for reasons of disinterest or poor workmanship. _The Rainbow_ suffered from neither of these. Instead, I simply could not put up with the seemingly endless vacillations of the characters, the souped-up description of all that they thought, and the plodding storyline. All these things are Lawrence's style, and it is a style that I just couldn't stand.<br />In some ways, this did not surprise me. I've never been that fond of description. I favor dialogue, then plot. A book in which action and character are made manifest through dialogue usually ends up as a favorite of mine; books with lengthy ruminations on the beauty of the landscape, in which the author tries to be both poet and storyteller, annoy me. I don't dislike characters that have trouble making up their minds--such is life. I do dislike novels in which that is the only point of the book.<br />Maybe I missed something. Maybe I'm not mature enough for this book. Maybe in ten years, or twenty years, or more, time I will come upon Lawrence again and my viewpoint will have radically shifted. These comments here, then, stand as a benchmark for that future date, to remind me of how absolutely dreadful I thought this book was.	2002-08-02
1454559:US	53084041	RBKI5ZOKPVUXR	0140186832	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Somewhat puzzling	I began this book with a sense of relief. Not only was the style<br />nothing like D.H. Lawrence's _The Rainbow_, which I had just had so much trouble with, but, as I had read _Ulysses_ (and Don Gifford's annotations to the same) over the summer, I felt that I had the necessary background to understand what could have been a very confusing narrative. For instance, when Parnell's name turned up, I instantly knew that this was the Irish politician who had nearly gotten a bill through the English parliament on Home Rule, only to then be disrailed by a scandal involving his long-time affair with a married woman. I also knew that the clergy had been somewhat hypocritical on the Parnell issue, waiting until he was declared guilty in court of adultery before coming out with their own condemnation, a fact that did not sit well with many Irish nationalists. Facts such as these, gleaned from my six weeks with Joyce's masterpiece, gave me a key to the background of the text.<br />But even more, what I liked about _Portrait_ was the, for Joyce, fairly clean style with which the story was told. I feared that _Portrait_ might reflect any one of the experimental styles in _Ulysses_, I was pleasantly surprised by the fairly linear (if occasionally vague with respect to time scale or particular period) storyline.<br />Things didn't stay simple for long, though. Chapter three and the extended sermon was tough to wade through, even if I did feel a personal connection to the crisis of faith experienced by Stephen. In the next three chapters, I was much more unsure of what exactly was taking place-the sentence structure was more complex and the descriptions less concrete.<br />I am somewhat confused by what actually happens at the end. I think I understand that Stephen refuses the priesthood because his brief experience as a religious acolyte (debasing himself by refusing the pleasures of the world) and his soul is still uneasy. He also, I feel, begins to have a doubt of the power of faith, a rationalist's questioning of the sacraments of faith. And he rejects the way of Irish nationalism for its own sake. But what does he assume as his path? The title gives some indication that it is art, but I hesitate to point at anything in the last chapter that shows this.aith, a rationalist's questioning of the sacraments of faith. And he rejects the way of Irish nationalism for its own sake. But what does he assume as his path? The title gives some indication that it is art, but I hesitate to point at anything in the last chapter that shows this.	2002-08-02
1454699:US	53084041	R1QWJMHL9QPKDW	015202073X	130194094	Knight's Castle	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A good place to start with Eager	...This is a simple little tale of a group of children who discover a little bit of magic in an old toy soldier. In Eager's work, magic has fairly strict rules (in _Half-Magic_, the charm granted any wish--but only in halves), and here the rules work as a kind of companion to the idea that magic can only work if you continue to believe in it (that is, if you start to think of the creatures you are interacting with simply as dolls, they revert to being dolls again). The plot achieves its urgency through a possible problem in the family, but, with a little help, everything can be solved. A little more moralistic and straight-forward than some of his others, but well worth reading--especially if you've never tried Eager before.	2002-08-02
1461562:US	53084041	R1XTSGDB7UJ3B2	0060977426	271010039	Wry Martinis	Books	3	3	6	N	N	I'm not bitter	A collection of essays and other little bits by the scion of William F. Buckley. You know, Christopher probably hates the fact that his family connection is constantly brought up in reviews, and I would be a touch more sensitive to his feelings, but, frankly, I think he's profited from it and why not give credit where it is due? I'll admit it--I'm envious. Here was a boy born with a golden dictionary in his hand and money to boot. And then he gets to go to Harvard, work on the Lampoon, be an editor at Forbes (and do a little junket travel as detailed in one of the more nauseatingly sycophantic articles here), write speeches for the Vice-President, and then he becomes a best- selling humorist. I'm so green with envy I'm sitting here looking a bit like the Incredible Hulk.<br />It wouldn't be quite so bad except that he even sounds like a nice guy, someone that I could be friends with (if I was wealthy or a politician or a fashion designer or the owner of my own company or you get the picture). Even his politics don't rub me quite the wrong way as his fellow conservative humorist, P.J. O'Rourke. I liked these little essays so much that I probably won't be able to resist something else by Buckley, most likely his satire on the tobacco lobby, Thanks for Smoking. Damn--I wish I had written that.	2002-07-26
1461584:US	53084041	R3QNO6QE82N0UT	1404312110	247579276	Kai Lung's Golden Hours	Books	4	22	22	N	N	You are too unworthy to read this most excellent book	I tried to write my comments on Ernest Bramagh's Kai Lung's Golden Hours, which I just finished, in the same style:<br />In the opinion of this lowly reader, the esteemed author before our unworthy eyes has created a gem of the highest quality, polished by fine craft.<br />But you can only do this so long before you get frustrated, which is why you have to admire Bramagh, because he could maintain this oblique and ornate style throughout and still manage to tell a compelling and, more than often, extremely humorous story.<br />The titular character, Kai Lung, is a storyteller who runs afoul of the local authorities, in particular a rather nasty advisor.  The problem is that Kai has set his eyes on a most beautiful young woman who is also highly desired by the advisor, and the mandarin in charge is quite corrupt.  The one saving grace for Kai Lung is that the mandarin also likes a good story.  Like Scherazade, Kai Lung is therefore in the positive of entertaining for his life, and that he is able to accomplish this is not due to the fragment of 1001 stories available to him, but also the help of his beloved (a fairly strong female character given the situation and the date this was written, 1922).<br />Not everyone will care for this book, because a style as circular and dense as this doesn't lead itself to the short-attention-span-generation (only James Branch Cabell has a more elaborate, yet beautiful, prose form in fantasy).  I don't know what it was about the 1920s that enabled the creation of such great comedy (Bramagh, Cabell, P.G. Wodehouse [who first became popular as a novelist in the 1920s], Thorne Smith).  Maybe it was the post-War jubiliation, the underground of prohibition, or the pre-Depression stockmarket?  Not ours to wonder why, but just to enjoy and laugh.	2002-07-26
1461683:US	53084041	RLYMPECURO40M	0553575376	482694144	Excession	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Complex space opera	Another of Banks' Culture novels, this one languished on my to-be-read shelf for a couple of years. Since Banks writes about a book a year, if one does not keep reading him steadily, it is easy to fall behind (as opposed to, say, Howard Waldrop).<br />I'm a fan of Banks mainly for his easy, breezy style and the modernist trappings of his characters. Yes, he writes space opera (when he writes SF), but this is no Star Wars--the characters are never so easily swept into categories of good and evil, nor can the science be so easily removed from the plot to reveal a western in space. A Culture novel would not be filmable, although it would be interesting to see someone try.<br />The title refers to a spatial anomaly that threatens to change the universe. It is big and spherical and obviously not a part of the \\"normal\\" universe, so it triggers the machinations of several conspiracies (what the Culture's Minds are best at) and a new war between the Culture and the aggressive Affront. The usual cast is there under different names: an independent human male envoy for Contact, a wronged woman, a spunky girl, some old and patient Drones, and some devious Minds. The Affront are interesting as foils to the utopian leanings of the Culture (I think I remember Banks saying that the reason he created the Culture as a utopian society was to show just how inherently unstable such a thing was).<br />This one jumps around a lot, switching various storylines so often that it is difficult to keep everything straight in your head, especially if you read this over multiple days. Don't. Read it in one sitting for the pure pleasure of it.	2002-07-26
1461839:US	53084041	R1ZHZ16YCYWEZK	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	3	32	37	N	N	Just good friends	It has been awhile since I've read a book in this series, but returning to it I felt like I had never taken a break. Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin have become my good friends, and O'Brian swept me away with their exploits instantly. Even thought the style is decidedly un-modern, O'Brian's narrative thrust is irresistible. In this, the third volume of the series, Jack is still in debt due to the Admiralty refusing to honor a war prize based on a technicality, thus putting his engagement to Sophie in danger. Maturin is in real danger as the new Lord governing the navy broadcasts his name in a public meeting, thus raising possible questions about his role as a spy. Stephen's heart is troubled as well; he still moons over Diana Villiers, from the events of the second book.<br />How can you possibly dislike a book that contains a line such as this: &quot;Jack, you have debauched my sloth.&quot; Yes, O'Brian has a certain amount of levity, although it is often hidden underneath the layers of the manners of the time. His style is somewhat like that of Jane Austen, where the most cutting of phrases are being said in the nicest of ways. You either like this sort of thing or don't. I like it, when I catch it, but I yearn for annotations, just knowing that there are some subtleties that are escaping me.	2002-07-26
1461935:US	53084041	R3JLN06GX84UYR	0374160155	750667311	The Chess Garden or the Twilight Letters of Gustav Uyterhoeven	Books	1	9	20	N	N	I wanted to like it so much	While this book is incredibly similar to two of my favorites-- Carroll's Bones of the Moon and Gaiman's A Game of You--it also has enough differences that its effect on me was less than ideal. In my favorites, the protagonist flips between a fantasy world and a real one, the fantasy acting as an allegory to the real. In The Chess Garden, the fantasy world is a series of letters written by the protagonist: as the book unfolds, what first you take as fantasy becomes just a long-spun yarn, tales for the kids back home. Yet these are as allegorical as those sections of the other books, possibly more so, because herein the main character is consciously crafting the story, rather than it happening in dreams. This fallback on realism undermines the mystical, magical aspect, like when a character in a movie winks at the camera, destroying the fictional illusion.<br />This is unfortunate because so much of this book is near my heart. It combines a love for games, intellectual exploration of the metaphysical realm, a fantasy story, and realistic characters. The basic plot is the life story of Dr. Gustav Uyterhoeven, a 19th century Dutch physician and researcher, who finds that his homeopathic beliefs are more and more at odds with his ratiocentric colleagues, even when his conclusions and theirs correspond. The structure of this novel, however, is much more complex, beginning at the end with the death of his wife, then flashing back upon itself in leap frog fashion, interspersed with the last letters that he wrote to his wife from South Africa.<br />I may not have been as moved by this as I could have been--although I should admit to a moistness around the ocular region near the end of the last letter--but I suspect that others may feel differently. This is due in large part to what you bring to this book, the experience of other, similar books and your own interests. I declare myself non-objective on this one, and rest my case.	2002-07-26
1462542:US	53084041	RGDOW8KPZY307	0812551605	565515536	One For The Morning Glory	Books	2	3	11	N	N	One for a slow day	The jacket compares this to William Goldman's The Princess Bride, and it is easy to see some resemblance. Both are fantasy stories in which the author speaks directly to the reader for humorous intent. The device of the book within a book in The Princess Bride allows Goldman to comment on the story itself; Barnes has his characters comment on it, as they realize that they are part of a tale. Post- modern fantasy. Whowouldathunkit.<br />And it works for the most part. Barnes deconstructs the typical fairy tale through his self-aware characters, yet also makes these same characters empathetic and keeps the tension of the story itself tight. Although you know that you are reading a story, you wonder just how much this new tale will fit the traditional, or if the author will suddenly veer off into unexplored territory. At its heart, the story is still your basic fantasy plot, and, unfortunately, no amount of tricks can avoid the fact that you've read this all before.<br />The Princess Bride succeeded because it exaggerated the standard cliches, making everything stand out as in bas-relief to the flat irreality of the normal story. Goldman's fondness for the genre kept it light, rather than ponderous and heavy-handed. Barnes starts off well, and there are brief flashes of brilliance, but most of the time his post-modern experimentation takes a backseat to the plot. It thus feels schizophrenic. I like what he was trying to accomplish, though.	2002-07-26
1462593:US	53084041	R3ES1NN3IZH9DW	0805054383	141857175	The Bear Went Over the Mountain: A Novel (Owl Book)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Ultra-fantastic Satire	This is a wickedly funny satire of publishing and life, wherein a nice bear stumbles upon a manuscript in the woods and decides to become an author. As authors are notoriously eccentric, his strangeness is discounted by all (he is the next Hemingway, they say, so raw and back to nature). At the same time, the fellow who actually wrote the book is finding that his anger and depression is leading him into the woods where he is becoming more gruff than ever.<br />There are sections here where I was literally snorting with laughter, usually in response to the literal-mindedness of the bear's reaction to humans--their mating rituals, the hoarding of food, those things important in life. Like the best fable, Kotzwinkle shows us through his bear character that all of these things we accept so easily are so much more, and also shows us through the human author that the city life is only part of the story.<br />The methodology of the tale is ultra-fantastic, even \\"magic realism\\" if you will. Kotzwinkle constantly reminds us that the bear is a bear, even as he becomes more human-like (and vice versa for the author turned woodsman). It resembles Carol Emshwiller's Carmen Dog in this manner--the animals may speak, but there's still a difference between them and humans. The satire resembles Terry Bisson's \\"Bears Discover Fire\\" (you could say this is \\"Bears Discover Publishing\\") in that it juxtaposes the raw nature of the beast with the civilized society. As much as I admire Bisson's story, I think Kotzwinkle out-does him, basically just by being able to extend the conceit for an entire novel. This is highly recommended to fans of realist fantasy and humorous works in general.	2002-07-26
1462615:US	53084041	R3V7F4J8VB5U32	0061056928	450739532	Lords and Ladies	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Round the Discworld	A Discworld novel--Pratchett's long-running cash cow that has him at the apex of the UK bestseller lists even more than Stephen King tops the NY Time list. What does that say about our two countries? America's most bought [note a] author plies his trade by staking out our fears in lengthy, brand name driven folk tales. While King has style, it always makes me think of him as a Southerner, rather than a backwoods boy from Maine. In stark contrast, Pratchett writes allusion-laden fantasies about a world propped up on the backs of four elephants on a giant tortoise (or something like that), wherein the jokes flit between Shakespeare parody and the physicality of Mr. Bean. Americans see their world as full of dangers; the British simply see it as absurd.<br />For all his gore, there lurks something underneath King's monstrous fiction, and the same applies to Pratchett. The absurdity means something to him--it is as if you must choose a worldview, and these are your choices.<br />Lords and Ladies is the third [note c] book that I've read by Pterry [note d], and I'm surprised to relay that I'm liking him more and more with each successive book. I nearly never bothered with him again after reading the first Discworld book, The Colour of Magic. It had not met its hype, and I waited five years before having a second go at the recommendation of Bob Gore. Pratchett is someone that I've always felt that I should like--I am an unabashed fan of written humor, especially of the British variety, and I like fantasy, especially when it does not take itself seriously. But, for some reason, I never clicked with the Discworld. That may be changing.<br />This novel concerns the witches that I met in my second attempt at Pratchett (Wyrd Sisters) returning home to the kingdom of Lancre after an eight-month absence and discovering that things have changed a little in the interim. Some gels [note e] have been dancing around the stones without their knickers on, and you know what that might bring: Her and Her court. In a subplot, the youngest witch is getting hitched to the king (who just happens to be the ex-Fool), if she can figure out just what a Queen is supposed to do (and it better not be only tapestries). There's a lot going on here--much more plot than I remembered being in a Discworld book--and it is easy to get lost. The foreword warns potential readers that this book is unlike some of the others in this series as it relies on a certain familiarity with the characters, but I did not have too much of a problem even with my relative novice status.<br />Finally, the best thing about reading this now (i.e., in 1999) is that I had the ability to look up the Annotated Pratchett Film to make sure I was catching all the jokes. Maybe this is what I needed nearly fifteen years ago when I sat down to read Pratchett for the first time?<br />[a] Remember, the bestseller list only records how many books are sold,[note b] not read.<br />[b] Actually, it is a measure of how many books are shipped to bookstores, many of which go unsold and are returned to publishers to be remaindered later.<br />[c] And a half, if we include Good Omens, which he co-wrote with Neal Gaiman.<br />[d] It's a fan thing, this name. Familiarity breeds weirdness.<br />[e] Girls.t bring: Her and Her court. In a subplot, the youngest witch is getting hitched to the king (who just happens to be the ex-Fool), if she can figure out just what a Queen is supposed to do (and it better not be only tapestries). There's a lot going on here--much more plot than I remembered being in a Discworld book--and it is easy to get lost. The foreword warns potential readers that this book is unlike some of the others in this series as it relies on a certain familiarity with the characters, but I did not have too much of a problem even with my relative novice status. <br />Finally, the best thing about reading this now (i.e., in 1999) is that I had the ability to look up the Annotated Pratchett Film to make sure I was catching all the jokes. Maybe this is what I needed nearly fifteen years ago when I sat down to read Pratchett for the first time? <br />[a] Remember, the bestseller list only records how many books are sold,[note b] not read. <br />[b] Actually, it is a measure of how many books are shipped to bookstores, many of which go unsold and are returned to publishers to be remaindered later. <br />[c] And a half, if we include Good Omens, which he co-wrote with Neal Gaiman. <br />[d] It's a fan thing, this name. Familiarity breeds weirdness. <br />[e] Girls.	2002-07-26
1467769:US	53084041	RCT933H2TES25	0375760393	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Through a Potato's Eyes	Michael Pollan's The Botany of Desire is a collection of four essays on four different plants, each representing a desire that humans have: apples (sweetness), tulips (beauty), marijuana (intoxication), and potatoes (control).  Pollan's writing is clear and purposeful, full of the kind of rampant speculation that would get a real scientist in trouble (or labeled as a \\"pop scientist\\" as Carl Sagan was), but perfect for the gardener-turned-investigator that Pollan is.  In high school, we learn that plots boil down to basic structures, one of them being human vs. nature.  Pollan attempts to flip that and write a book that is nature vs. humans by focusing on how the plants benefit from the years of selection by humans.  Although the book is obstensibly about the plants, Pollan introduces you to a number of people who provide both the assistance and the foils for his natural protagonists, like: Johnny Appleseed (a real figure) and Bill Jones (who is more interested in a St. Appleseed); Monsanto, their captive customers, and the off-the-grid organic farmer Mike Heath; Bryan R., a breeder and grower of marijuana in Amsterdam, who is both frightened and proud of his patch of [marijuana]; and Dr. Pauw, who owned all but one of the most desired tulips during the mania that hit Holland.<br />The style of the book resembles that of John McPhee, partly because of its four-essay structure, but also in the short, broken sections that flit back-and-forth in time, place and thought.  Pollan, unlike McPhee, has a conclusion to draw from his subject, though, and that is the need to support biodiversity and his fear of monoculture--be it a natural one like the reliance on the \\"lumper\\" potato in Ireland that led to the Great Potato Famine or the artificial one of human culture, where people show a range of interest on many things, not just the tulip (or dot.com) of the moment.  Reading between the lines, one can celebrate not only the wonder of nature but also fear the danger of hubris in thinking that we are separate from that nature, that we are not as changed by it as we change it.  In these days of global warming and other environmental pressures, it's a lesson we would all do well to heed.in thinking that we are separate from that nature, that we are not as changed by it as we change it.  In these days of global warming and other environmental pressures, it's a lesson we would all do well to heed.	2002-07-21
1467925:US	53084041	R3LX8MPHCVYNWE	0312099290	494232054	Unconquered Countries: Four Novellas	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Ryman's better at longer lengths	I read this earlier in the summer, and I have to admit to having forgotten most about the stories here, but I remember being vaguely disappointed after finishing the collection. I like Ryman a lot--his novel, The Child Garden, is one of my favorite novels, and I thought that both Was and 253 were very good. Maybe I just like him at longer lengths?<br />* &quot;A Fall of Angels&quot; -- Too much science, not enough story. That was my impression, wanting more of what was going on to be explained in a non-mathematical way. This story seemed to lack that sense of wonder--almost lifeless. It has some interesting concepts, but it is too busy to congeal into a pleasing tale.<br />* &quot;Fan&quot; -- This was my favorite of the collection, a neat look at an obsessive fan of a new pop star, and what happens when you &quot;meet&quot; the object of your dreams. It really examines the relationship between the &quot;star&quot; and the &quot;fan.&quot; It is a rich vein of inquiry, and Ryman taps the jugular here. Both surprising and illuminating, it also holds your attention throughout, even though the protagonist is not very appealing.<br />* &quot;O Happy Day!&quot; -- A &quot;what if&quot; story about a horrible set of circumstances existing between men and women, and a repeat of the horrors of the mid-20th century. The situation looks grim, but only if we forget to be human. A well done bit of cautionary tale. Enjoyable!<br />* &quot;The Unconquered Country&quot; -- An award-winner, but it has never done that much for me. Overly subtle?	2002-07-21
1468037:US	53084041	R3KWPIPP5Z1T6K	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A harbinger of novels to come	That something is wrong with the Pontellier marriage is self-evident, especially when one compares the dinner between the Pontelliers in Chapter 17 with that of the Ratignolles in Chapter 18. The Pontelliers may share a house, but do not seem to share much else. Edna has no interest in the elusive \\"business\\" engaged in by L&eacute;once, and he seems to have no thought that his wife might have an interest outside of their home. The added confusion that Edna feels about Robert--an infatuation, even--implies a future in which changes will be made. At the end of Chapter 18, all it would take, it seems, is the return of Robert to induce this change.<br />Why should Edna be so inclined to risk her domestic safety? L&eacute;once represents stability--if an enforced one--that is the respected idea of society. But Edna's temperament towards the creative arts (seen in her enjoyment of music and her drawing) implies an impulsive streak in her, a possibility for abandonment that might lead to her passions revealing themselves. Edna seems to be oblivious to the necessities that fund her lifestyle, so even poverty is not necessarily a hindrance to throwing over her marriage in a fit of passion.<br />Given the foregoing, one might think that Edna would be tempted to leave her husband. While she might challenge the \\"conventions\\" of her state and status, I think that she will stop herself from that final leap off the cliff of respectability. Just as she \\"awakens\\" to her newfound ability to swim and immediately tests herself by swimming farther offshore than is likely safe for such a beginner, she is able to recognize the danger in her situation and summon the strength to return before any harm is done. This bathing scene strikes me as both a perfect metaphor for her discontent and desire to push the limits of her situation, but also a foreshadowing of the events to come. Edna is decidedly unhappy in her life, but is she suicidal (i.e., mad enough to destroy her safe life)?<br />I concentrate on Edna for hers is the main perspective of the story, although we do obtain a limited amount from Robert's point-of-view. We are not privy to the true reason for his sudden departure, but the combination of the warning issued by Mrs. Ratignolle, the comments made by Marguerite, and his own faltering farewell speech indicates that he removes himself for the safety of distance from Edna, realizing that their relationship is growing to be more than simply polite companionship.<br />All in all, at midway through The Awakening, the subject seems to be the disillusionment of loveless marriage, in contrast to what Edna terms \\"life's delirium\\" in the last paragraph of Chapter 18. From the point-of-view of her friends and acquaintances, Edna's life seems perfect: a doting husband, two lovely and healthy children, a household with the domestic amenities, a house that is perfectly appointed. Underneath this surface perfection runs a weak thread, a flaw in the looking glass, which is the life of the mind. Edna's consciousness does not mirror this outward happiness seen by her friends, and it is this inconsistency that threatens to shatter the picture of domestic bliss. This emphasis on the mind makes The Awakening a precursor to the modernist style. While it still expresses the story of Edna through a flat, third person narration typical of the past, its psychological method is a harbinger of novels to come.ncentrate on Edna for hers is the main perspective of the story, although we do obtain a limited amount from Robert's point-of-view. We are not privy to the true reason for his sudden departure, but the combination of the warning issued by Mrs. Ratignolle, the comments made by Marguerite, and his own faltering farewell speech indicates that he removes himself for the safety of distance from Edna, realizing that their relationship is growing to be more than simply polite companionship.<br />All in all, at midway through The Awakening, the subject seems to be the disillusionment of loveless marriage, in contrast to what Edna terms \\"life's delirium\\" in the last paragraph of Chapter 18. From the point-of-view of her friends and acquaintances, Edna's life seems perfect: a doting husband, two lovely and healthy children, a household with the domestic amenities, a house that is perfectly appointed. Underneath this surface perfection runs a weak thread, a flaw in the looking glass, which is the life of the mind. Edna's consciousness does not mirror this outward happiness seen by her friends, and it is this inconsistency that threatens to shatter the picture of domestic bliss. This emphasis on the mind makes The Awakening a precursor to the modernist style. While it still expresses the story of Edna through a flat, third person narration typical of the past, its psychological method is a harbinger of novels to come.	2002-07-21
1468260:US	53084041	R22XG3ZKR4I4H8	1888363363	656698601	Bloodchild and other Stories	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Powerful short stories	This contains most of Octavia Butler's published short work, and it's a small book. But that does not mean that you should pass it up. At least two of the stories, I believe, are must-reads for anyone interested in science fiction.<br />* &quot;Bloodchild&quot; -- This is likely my favorite SF story. The situation is horrifying, yet believable, and, within context, entirely rational. Humans on a far away planet are forced to enter into a relationship with the native alien race that is strangely reminiscent of both slavery and concubinage, yet Butler actually was working from insect natural history. This is a powerful story, one that wakes up your mind.<br />* &quot;The Evening and the Morning and the Night&quot; -- This is the other fabulous story in this collection, another case of believable SF that comes near to horror. A disease that incites people to unthinkable crimes and the solution to the disease--as well as a close study on the type of people who administer the solution. You really can't do much better than this in SF.<br />* &quot;Near of Kin&quot; -- Not SF, and not a fantasy, yet not horror either. The subject matter is taboo in most fiction, so maybe that's how it ended up in an SF anthology. Well done. Enjoyable.<br />* &quot;Speech Sounds&quot; -- Really good story about a plague that affects the speech centers of the brain. Fast, but compelling, with an economy of plot--just enough to present the worse and the best of the situation.<br />* &quot;Crossover&quot; -- Boring, although not bad for a first published story. You can see how her background infused her stories early on.<br />* &quot;Positive Obsession&quot; and &quot;Furor Scribendi&quot; -- Reprinted essays on writing that should provide quite inspiring for burgeoning writers. Economical and smart.	2002-07-21
1468325:US	53084041	R14QA96F8R8IQ	0345350472	978657248	Blade Runner (Movie-Tie-In Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Deepen your movie experience	I re-read this novel recently, as I used it in my \\"What Is Humanity?\\" class in conjunction with the movie based on it, Blade Runner. As a longtime fan of Dick, I had read this quite some time ago, and still remembered quite a bit of it, so in this re-reading, I concentrated on the similarities and differences between it and the movie. In my memory, I thought that the two were quite different, and on the surface, they are. This is because the movie is but a subset of the book--the screenwriters took what they thought was the dramatic heart of the novel, but they didn't necessarily discard the rest. It's still there, surprisingly, but it is sublimated in images and character asides.<br />Yes, it's a pulp novel. But Dick was a warped mind, and this is one of his best books of the \\"middle period\\" of work, between the science fiction where he honed his craft and before he moved into the metaphysical territory of his last novels (in particular, the VALIS trilogy). If you like this book, you owe it to yourself to try UBIK and The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, which are my picks for the best of the pulp novels.	2002-07-21
1468425:US	53084041	R2D3QAGZY3YDZP	0156235501	548806220	The Cyberiad	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Most amusing	I was initially wary of this book. As a teenager, I tried to read something by Lem (The Tales of Prix the Pilot or something like that?), and was completely unimpressed. But as soon as I started this book, I found myself both pleased and attentive. Pleased, because it touched the humor in me in much the same way that Douglas Adams did in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (and, given how much I love that book, this is high praise). In places, I wondered if maybe Adams had read Lem and decided to do him one better, for many of the set pieces in Hitchhiker seem to be exaggerated and elongated versions of some of the thrown-off bits here. And I was attentive, because I started to follow how the stories were constructed--how Lem built these fables from the simple beginnings of his two robot constructors into a long, elaborate study of what it means to be an inventor in a world that combines feudal elements and modern technology (i.e., somewhat similar to our own, if you bunny-hop over to the world next door). Funny, almost to the laugh-out-loud level, and very, very interesting.	2002-07-21
1469991:US	53084041	R1WROZGWH1XQQI	0879100117	888484145	Bring on the Girls!	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Bring on the Fun	P.G. Wodehouse was often quoted as saying that his novels and stories were musical comedy without the music.  Just how much this is true becomes apparent from reading his autobiographical book _Bring on the Girls_ (co-written with his musical theater partner, Guy Bolton). Although Wodehouse is now known for the 80-plus novels he wrote over his life starring such wonderful characters as Bertie Wooster and his manservant Jeeves, in the 1920s, Wodehouse was better known as a lyricist for a string of hit Broadway plays to which Bolton wrote the book (the play itself or the story) and Jerome Kern wrote the music. One New York critic thought so much of this trio that he wrote his own lyrics in praise:<br />  This is the trio of musical fame,<br />  Bolton and Wodehouse and Kern:<br />  Better than anyone else you can name,<br />  Bolton and Wodehouse and Kern.<br />  Nobody knows what on earth they'be been bitten by:<br />  All I can say is I mean to get lit an' buy<br />  Orchestra seats for the next one that's written by<br />  Bolton and Wodehouse and Kern.<br />It's slightly difficult for us today to understand the Broadway of the 20s, because shows today take millions of dollars to stage and are usually remakes of movies.  In the heyday of this trio, though, it only took $50k to stage one of their productions, and often this musical would move on to Hollywood or into one of Wodehouse's novels after it's run was done.<br />The book itself reads like one of Wodehouse's best, as it focuses often on humorous anecdotes of the flamboyant characters of the time like Flo Ziegfield (he of Follies fame) and Col. Savage (who used to trick authors to work on his boat under the pretense of listening to their ideas for new plays).  You can also get a glimpse into the stock market bubble of the time as Wodehouse and Bolton get all set to produce their own plays right before the crash.  Of course, this is a Wodehouse book, so the text doesn't linger on the tragedy but instead focuses on how Wodehouse and Bolton both move on to Hollywood from there, making a silk purse out of a pork belly.ead focuses on how Wodehouse and Bolton both move on to Hollywood from there, making a silk purse out of a pork belly.	2002-07-19
1471074:US	53084041	R1TJLLYY7RRPWO	0312863942	243431106	The Urth of the New Sun: The sequel to 'The Book of the New Sun'	Books	3	15	23	N	N	Okay follow-up	I read Gene Wolfe's four-volume \\"Book of the New Sun\\" when I was in high school. Even though I read indiscriminately in those days, I knew that these books were something different, something special. What originally drew me to them was the unconventional employment of his hero, Severian, who we meet in the first book as an apprentice torturer. I was a big fan of fantasies with someone other than the orphan farm boy who turns out to be the long-lost prince (my high school favorite being, of course, the leper and unbeliever, Thomas Covenant). But what kept me reading was the language. Wolfe's style in those books was a complex baroque--what we read as fantasy, in the strictest Arthur C. Clarke definition, is really only far future science, Wolfe was saying. And what is old (especially in language), becomes new again, with a strangely reminiscent quality. Wolfe's books were set so far in the future that the sun is a dying star.<br />When you write a masterpiece, as Wolfe did, it is hard to top it, and, although The Urth of the New Sun attempts to be that fifth book that provides a seamless integration with the four before it, something is missing. It could be that Severian has finally risen too high (literally) for us to follow; it could be that the metaphysics of the New Sun become too convoluted. Or it might just be that I waited too many years between the tetralogy and this book to be able to pick up the narrative thread. I know that in the first four books Severian engages in remembering instances that occurred earlier, but it seems endemic to this novel, taking seemingly forever for something *new* to happen.<br />But you don't read these for the plot. It is Gene Wolfe's genius for making obscure words and ancient terms seem like the language of a new world that leaves you spellbound. This might frustrate some who do not have an OED handy or a grasp of foreign roots, but most SF readers are used to trying to understand new words in context. To use a fairly simplistic example: you know that a falchion is a sword- like thing when it is used to chop someone's head off.<br />Wolfe took some years off before returning to this world in the 1990s in the Long Sun books. I'm interested in how they compare, hoping that he was able to capture more of the original spirit there than in this novel.stic example: you know that a falchion is a sword- like thing when it is used to chop someone's head off.<br />Wolfe took some years off before returning to this world in the 1990s in the Long Sun books. I'm interested in how they compare, hoping that he was able to capture more of the original spirit there than in this novel.	2002-07-18
1471343:US	53084041	R3ULXSQRTLLI5B	0679777431	999153365	The Game of Kings (Lymond Chronicles, 1)	Books	5	99	105	N	N	Slow Starter, but Well Worth the Effort	I hesitated before reading this book, the first in a set of six collectively called &quot;The Lymond Chronicles.&quot; I'm already three deep in Patrick O'Brian's historical series, so I wondered if I would be tempting my history filter to overload by starting another so soon? Not to worry, because the two time periods and areas are quite unlike each other, and there seems little chance that I will mix the two in my memory. Comparing the two to each other might prove useful, though.<br />Dunnett has only one protagonist, instead of O'Brian's two, and he is a figure whom is quite larger than life. When we meet Lymond at the beginning of this novel, he is a confirmed rogue, wanted by his native Scotland as a traitor and *persona non grata* as well with the British. He survives as a Robin Hood, with a band of sixty-odd men, taking advantage of the interminable conflict between England and Scotland to feed and supply his men. He seems to revel in antagonizing his older brother, possibly with a purpose (trying to claim his inheritance a la Esau?). An excellent swordsman, a fierce and loyal leader, and a polyglot--there seems to be nothing that his quick wit and rapier-like mind cannot do.<br />Well, there is one thing, and that is to explain himself. Much of the plot of The Game of Kings concerns Lymond's search for the Englishman who can restore his reputation in England, who can provide him an alibi that will show his kindred that he is not a traitor. Yet his pride will not allow him to explain (or try to explain) just how he expects this to be achieve to anyone--family or friends. Which is a pity, because several characters here would react quite differently if Lymond would only speak his mind. Speak he often does, in several languages (a passing knowledge of Latin and French helps when reading some of the trickier passages), but these are often quips, not information.<br />Like the best rogues of old, you cannot help but like the fellow. He has his own code of conduct and, especially compared to the obsessive maniac his older brother becomes, a style that recalls the best of Sean Connery (another Scot, don't you know) in his portrayal of James Bond. There's a comparison that sits a little truer--Lymond is the 16th century Bond.<br />This is adventure stuff of the finest degree. There are shooting contests, secret raids, impersonations, captures, intrigues, and a long, glorious duel between brothers. Yes, there is history here, too; I understand a little more about the makeup of Scotland and its past politics than I did before. Dunnett's details are not in the rigging, as O'Brian's are, though. She has a much larger picture in mind, and if she throws in an Errol Flynn to keep you amused while getting to it, so what?<br />I more than enjoyed this, and I will most likely continue the series at a later date.t and, especially compared to the obsessive maniac his older brother becomes, a style that recalls the best of Sean Connery (another Scot, don't you know) in his portrayal of James Bond. There's a comparison that sits a little truer--Lymond is the 16th century Bond.<br />This is adventure stuff of the finest degree. There are shooting contests, secret raids, impersonations, captures, intrigues, and a long, glorious duel between brothers. Yes, there is history here, too; I understand a little more about the makeup of Scotland and its past politics than I did before. Dunnett's details are not in the rigging, as O'Brian's are, though. She has a much larger picture in mind, and if she throws in an Errol Flynn to keep you amused while getting to it, so what?<br />I more than enjoyed this, and I will most likely continue the series at a later date.	2002-07-18
1471439:US	53084041	R19C1AEHFTLGVU	0060976926	149142118	Galatea 2.2: A Novel	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Metafiction or Autobiography?	Last year I added Powers' The Gold Bug Variations to my favorites list (a set of roughly 100 novels and stories that I consider the best things to have passed my way) and stated then that I would have to find out if his other novels had the same appeal for me. When scouring the used bookstore shelves, his name is often the one I start with, hoping to find a copy of his rare first novel, Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance. Instead, I often saw copies of his fourth--Operation Wandering Soul--which I have decided to pass for the moment. Then I discovered this one. Powers again on science, this time artificial consciousness. Sounded like a winner to me.<br />I knew it wouldn't be the same as The Gold Bug Variations. That novel had a *sine qua none* aspect of perfection that I doubted could be matched even by its author. What I had not expected was a meditation on that book--a reflection or introspection of his career as a novelist to date. The main character in Galatea 2.2 is a man named Richard Powers, a man who has written three novels and is just finishing his fourth as the book opens. The novels have the same titles and subjects as those of the author of this book, but can we assume that the protagonist and the author are the same? (One branch of literary theory says that no author is the same between books. That as soon as any single work is finished, that author is unattainable--dead, so to speak, to the world. I was surreptitiously referring to this above.) Why is it an issue? Because the Powers displayed herein is so flawed that you don't want to believe it is the same person. Yes, I still have that silly illusion that authors can somehow be better than the rest of us, to be above spite and greed and depression. But one has only to look at oneself to see the problem with that belief. How Powers comes across in his novels (the implied narrator) is different than how he is in &quot;real life.&quot; I also suspect that it is different than how he sees himself as well.<br />The self-examination is only half of this book (an extremely interesting half, to be sure, as we come to learn the &quot;reality&quot; behind his &quot;meteoric&quot; publishing career). Interspersed with that story is a year that the protagonist spends as Humanist-in-Residence at the Center for the Study of Advanced Sciences. He first finds himself at odds, spending his days as a hermit before this new thing called the Internet that allows him to travel the world from his desktop. One night, while in his armchair travels, he hears a repeated strain of music from down the hall. Investigating, he meets Lentz, an acerbic researcher into neural nets. A chance encounter between the two at an university bar the next week, and Powers is drawn into a wager in which he must learn the limits of machine intelligence and reveal his soul to Lentz, who strangely has become his friend and antagonist.<br />I can't tell you if the science is any good--it is way beyond my Liberal Arts comprehension--but the characters are great, even if some of them aren't the kind of people you would want to share research with. Powers captures the pure upmanship of science perfectly; the arrogance, the exaggeration, the doubt, the disinclination. When he says that he was a failed physics student, we can take him at his word, but, contrary to his stated belief here, he is not a failed observer of the human condition.<br />This may have been a therapeutic exercise for the author. It is if we believe the character of Richard Powers shares some of the same emotions with the author. For the rest of us, it has some benefit as well, a view of success that questions itself and a glimpse into one of the most important things in life: balance.well.<br />The self-examination is only half of this book (an extremely interesting half, to be sure, as we come to learn the &quot;reality&quot; behind his &quot;meteoric&quot; publishing career). Interspersed with that story is a year that the protagonist spends as Humanist-in-Residence at the Center for the Study of Advanced Sciences. He first finds himself at odds, spending his days as a hermit before this new thing called the Internet that allows him to travel the world from his desktop. One night, while in his armchair travels, he hears a repeated strain of music from down the hall. Investigating, he meets Lentz, an acerbic researcher into neural nets. A chance encounter between the two at an university bar the next week, and Powers is drawn into a wager in which he must learn the limits of machine intelligence and reveal his soul to Lentz, who strangely has become his friend and antagonist.<br />I can't tell you if the science is any good--it is way beyond my Liberal Arts comprehension--but the characters are great, even if some of them aren't the kind of people you would want to share research with. Powers captures the pure upmanship of science perfectly; the arrogance, the exaggeration, the doubt, the disinclination. When he says that he was a failed physics student, we can take him at his word, but, contrary to his stated belief here, he is not a failed observer of the human condition.<br />This may have been a therapeutic exercise for the author. It is if we believe the character of Richard Powers shares some of the same emotions with the author. For the rest of us, it has some benefit as well, a view of success that questions itself and a glimpse into one of the most important things in life: balance.	2002-07-18
1486732:US	53084041	R2CRXHDPLLRX7	193188613X	80281052	Versus Books Official Neverwinter Nights World Builder's Perfect Guide	Books	3	22	22	N	N	Useful, yet limited	Neverwinter Nights has a lot of promise as a &quot;next generation&quot; of online RPGs because it enables people to build their own worlds and allow others to play in them.  With great promise comes great heartaches, one of them being the trade-off between making this world building exercise easy or powerful.  BioWare decided on going the harder route by exposing a massive amount of tools to the world builder.  Unfortunately, this means that potential world builders face a learning curve on the order of learning how to program C.  In fact, if there's one thing you learn at a quick glance through this book, it's that if programming computers sends you into a fit, you shouldn't be thinking of this at all.<br />For someone who isn't scared of learning to program but hasn't yet, this book fails to make that easy for it doesn't talk about basic structures.  The authors assume a fair amount of knowledge (what declaring variables means, if-then statements, case statements).  For world builders who are experienced programmers, this book is annoying because it is written as a tutorial rather than a reference manual (the reference pages in the back are simply a list of monsters, not a list of the possible programming commands and where they apply).  Which means the book is really for the intermediate programmer--the one who has played with coding, but who doesn't live and breath it.  For that person, this book will assist them through several of the early hurdles, as this book is a good &quot;tutorial&quot; for the world creation process.<br />My guess is that programming reference book will be available someday.  I sure hope so.	2002-07-05
1833778:US	53084041	R1XHIRPHUAYIKX	0679751343	457276000	Angels & Insects: Two Novellas	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Byzantine	Two novellas by Byatt, the author of a particular favorite book of mine, Possession. Both stories share some commonalties with that work: an historical setting made real through the use of documents (poems, stories) that signify the date of their creation by their style. Both stories are set in the past, near the turn of the 19th century. &quot;Morpho Eugenia&quot; (the insects of the title) is a little mystery story about a naturalist who has lost all of his specimens during a sea-wreck and is forced to work as a catalogist for a wealthy amateur, working through the amateur's bought samples. The naturalist is loosely based, it seems, on David Wallace, the co-discoverer of the theory of natural selection with Charles Darwin. He finds that his patron's family is nearly as interesting as nature, especially one young lady cocooned from the world. But cocoons hide things.<br />The second story is more like Possession in that it plays revisionistic (or maybe impressionistic) with Alfred, Lord Tennyson, and his sister Emily through the medium of a medium (that is, a clairvoyant). The point around which the story revolves is Arthur Hallem, the subject of Tennyson's &quot;In Memoriam,&quot; a friend of his youth and the betrothed of his sister, who died on a sea voyage when Hallem was twenty-two. Emily, now married, has lingering doubts about her choice of marriage, wondering, if she should have, as her brother's poem snidely implies, spent her days in perpetual maidenhood. Are we destined to have only one soul mate, the other being with which we form 'the conjugal angel'?<br />Byatt's style is Byzantine. Her scholarship into literary istory has informed her pen to leak the century from its nib, and is not for those married to modernity. Yet her subjects are fresh and vibrant, pictured with painful clarity in the harshest of  lights. Her characters ache in-between the lines.	2001-09-20
1834687:US	53084041	RDJERNNR3OJIT	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Watch(bat)man Redux	The team of Alan Moore and Dave Gibbon, who combined to hit a grand slam with the now seminal graphic novel, Watchman, regrouped shortly after that and produced this examination of Batman.  It's shorter, but that's the only real negative here.  Moore's take on the Joker emphasizes the cruel nature of the character, and he includes a plot development here, which some of the other reviewers give away but I can't let myself do, that is shocking in how it affects characters.<br />When I glance at a page of Gibbon art, I'm never that interested in it.  It lacks the flash and smoothness of fan-favorites like McFarlane.  But it is art that works in conjunction with the text to truly propel the story, and that's what a graphic work is supposed to do.	2001-09-20
1835316:US	53084041	R2KJV0EA9DPPXT	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Incredibly Readable	It's a rare book indeed that I find myself compelled to read straight through, and this has become an even more rare occurrence in recent years due to an increasingly busy life.  So when I tell you that I read this book in two days in two sittings, that should give you a good indication of just how compelling this book is.<br />Yes, it's a Sherlock Holmes book.  Yes, it's not by Conan Doyle.  I'm not normally one to recommend a book that uses characters created by other writers, but there's an exception to everything, and King is the exception.  Give her credit for the creation of a character just as interesting as Holmes, and for portraying Holmes in not just a reverential manner, but a professional one.  That is, she lets him grow as a character, rather than keeping him static.  This is a huge improvement over Doyle (albeit Holmes changed under his pen, but not quite as believably).<br />King also has a wonderful plot here, and a wonderful villain.  The combination kept me up until 1 a.m. on two nights running.  Likely it will do the same for you.	2001-09-19
1988123:US	53084041	R1T12M23924U22	0312119240	556709054	Gospel: A Novel	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Overlong, but very thought provoking	In the late 1970s I saw an atrocious mini-series on television called &quot;The Word.&quot;  It starred Darin McGavin (later to become Kolchak, the Night Stalker) and was based on the novel by Irwin Wallace (at least, I think that's what the author's name was).  It is my understanding that Wallace's novel is pretty bad, as well--Wallace once wrote a novel about writing the novel he was writing, which even in a post-modern concept sounds pretty terrible (I think, to be really original, he called that one &quot;The Novel&quot;).  In any case, the whole premise of &quot;The Word&quot; was that an investigator discovers that the gospels were a hoax--an entirely made up account, based somewhat on historical personages, but expanded on in elaborate ways to create an interest and a cult.  Woah, I thought.  Why couldn't it have been like this?  How do we *know* that the Gospel was inspired, rather than invented?  (No use writing in, I'm familiar with the &quot;you must have faith&quot; verses--I might know them better than you, in fact.)  Since then I've been fairly skeptical about the word.  In some ways, this might explain my fascination with the concept of the unreliable narrator, as ultimately the most unreliable narrator of all is the author him- or herself.<br />Which is a bit far afield of the novel in question, but puts a little background on why I was interested in this novel about the search for a fifth gospel.  While basically an adventure story, with kidnappings and arsons and misunderstandings and close calls, etc., the intellectual basis for this story is solidly researched, as evidenced by the copious footnotes and the index.  The danger about mixing such solid research in an extremely James Bond-ish plot (even if none of the characters achieve Bond's superhuman status) is that the audience is not quite sure what to believe.<br />Interspersed with the adventure story is the lost gospel itself, which tries to cover some of the myths and popular beliefs about the other gospels and the disciples that wrote them.  Fundamentalists will be offended, no doubt, just as they were offended by _The Last Temptation of Christ_ and _Live from Golgotha_.  But Barnhardt's view has a strong feeling of verisimilitude, even if his made-up gospel doesn't.<br />The book is long, but not over-long, and the action is exciting, if straining credulity at times, but overall it provides solid  entertainment with just enough thought to make you think twice  about those other gospels, and the books surrounding them.the other gospels and the disciples that wrote them.  Fundamentalists will be offended, no doubt, just as they were offended by _The Last Temptation of Christ_ and _Live from Golgotha_.  But Barnhardt's view has a strong feeling of verisimilitude, even if his made-up gospel doesn't.<br />The book is long, but not over-long, and the action is exciting, if straining credulity at times, but overall it provides solid  entertainment with just enough thought to make you think twice  about those other gospels, and the books surrounding them.	2001-05-23
1988592:US	53084041	R1OV3NKF7UZBZE	0152011919	606995466	The Kingdom of Kevin Malone	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Interesting, but not as original as others	Suzy McKee Charnas is better known for her adult fiction and non-fiction (she is the author of _The Verbal Art of Self-Defense_).  I picked this book up for a buck and thought, what could I lose?<br />The better question may have been, for a buck, what could I gain? That's not to say that this novel is bad.  Charnas is too much of a professional to have written a *bad* book.  And there are some little twists to the genre that she nicely pulls off.  But, on the whole, it's rather unimaginative.<br />The protagonist is a girl whose favorite aunt has just died, and she's quite bummed about it.  So when she finds herself slipping into another world from Central Park, she is skeptical--especially since the hero of this other world is Kevin Malone, a bully who used to pick on her.<br />As I said, not a bad book.  There's your typical walking skeletons, and the little people, and the quests.  But there's also a more  gritty, personal nature to the protagonist.  I'm not sure it is altogether successful, but it was at least interesting.	2001-05-23
2215597:US	53084041	R1EGUUCTY1I5AV	1563896559	316129890	Promethea, Book 1	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Conventional Moore	Unlike Moore's ground-breaking work on Watchmen and From Hell, Promethea is more traditional fare.  However, because it is by Moore, this is still above the majority of comics/graphic novels being produced today.  In some ways, this is Moore at his post-modern best, as the very nature of this character (channeled through the years by the artists that imagine her best) allows him to discuss the power of the creative imagination, while still indulging in the kind of esoterica that has filled his other work.	2000-11-10
3013611:US	53084041	RP9J282LMKNQV	067172066X	676031600	The Warrior's Apprentice	Books	1	11	30	N	N	Only for the fan	Hypatia, the recommendation system of Alexandria Digital Literature, said I would like this book.  As I had already found many books that I did like through the system, I tried it, but this one wasn't to my taste.  Maybe in the future, when the system has 10s of thousands of patrons, the recommender will be right on, but for now, there's bound to be some things a little off. Why? With so few patrons, the number of books that have a large enough percentage of people who have read them is fairly small, so those few books that almost everyone has read (Tolkien, Shakespeare, Twain) will tend to rise to the top of everyone's recommendation list. Because the AlexLit clientele is decidedly SF oriented, this includes the favorites of the genre, such as Heinlein, Card, and, of course, Bujold.<br />The company of Heinlein and Card are apt for Bujold, for her style and plot are quite similar, if I can make generalizations based on one book. The Warrior's Apprentice is the \\"first\\" book about Miles Vorkosigan (I have to put first in quotes because on Bujold's timeline, she has actually written prequels which feature Miles' parents). Miles is your classic SF protagonist--a misunderstood young boy with a handicap who has a mind that can solve any problem. I call this the classic because a majority of the science fiction audience can easily project themselves onto Miles without difficulty (that demographic being young boys from 11 to 17, readers who likely excel at math or other problem solving areas, yet are inept at sports). I understand the pull; I was part of this demographic once. That is why I remember Heinlein fondly, because I read him at this particular time in my life. But this is also why I dislike Card's hugely popular Ender's Game and Bujold's equally popular Vorkosigan series, because I encountered them outside of that niche and thus recognized the obvious wish-fulfillment nature of the tales.<br />Aside from the simplistic plot structure, I continually stumbled on the poor prose. I realize that this was one of Bujold's first books, and she may have gotten to be a better writer in later volumes, but this was the particular one recommended to me. How bad is it? Let's look at some examples:<br />\\"That's right,\\" Miles snarled. [pg. 5]<br />\\"That awful holovid,\\" she glowered. [pg. 89]<br />\\"The last rate,\\" Miles hissed. [pg. 199]<br />Try to hiss the words \\"the last rate.\\" You can't. I doubt you can snarl \\"that's right,\\" either, and don't even ask me how to glower words. These examples were picked by just opening the book at random--I could probably come up with many more in this vein. On style, things aren't much better. Most of the characters are little more than talking heads, who are necessary to pass information to Miles.<br />I can't continue. It was interesting to read one Bujold, to be able to discuss her with reason, rather than simply dismiss her out-of-hand. I'll put her over with Card; two writers who will continue to be popular, but who can safety be ignored by those wanting more than the Hardy Boys in space.the poor prose. I realize that this was one of Bujold's first books, and she may have gotten to be a better writer in later volumes, but this was the particular one recommended to me. How bad is it? Let's look at some examples: <br />\\"That's right,\\" Miles snarled. [pg. 5]<BR>\\"That awful holovid,\\" she glowered. [pg. 89]<BR>\\"The last rate,\\" Miles hissed. [pg. 199]<br />Try to hiss the words \\"the last rate.\\" You can't. I doubt you can snarl \\"that's right,\\" either, and don't even ask me how to glower words. These examples were picked by just opening the book at random--I could probably come up with many more in this vein. On style, things aren't much better. Most of the characters are little more than talking heads, who are necessary to pass information to Miles. <br />I can't continue. It was interesting to read one Bujold, to be able to discuss her with reason, rather than simply dismiss her out-of-hand. I'll put her over with Card; two writers who will continue to be popular, but who can safety be ignored by those wanting more than the Hardy Boys in space.	1998-07-14
